ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55677	Here you go, pal Pernar. Let's hear it and others want to hear from you. Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55678	I'm sorry, I'm going to rephrase well, but she's looking for a break after that. The thing is, my colleague Arsen Bauk is a big head, a very big head, a very smart man, and he's very prone to criticism. Of course, I see as well as the rest of the party doesn't have that line of self-criticity, so I'd just like to ask him one simple, simple question. Why aren't you the big head of Arsena Bauku when you were in power to put the OPGs and small suppliers above private banks in the event of bankruptcy. So why didn't you put the O.P.G.s above these macro creditors when you were in power? That's what I want to know. And as for the reason for the break, I am looking for a break because it is finally beginning to publish an arbitration ruling in the case of the INA MOL we lost, and one of the reasons we lost is because the judges believed that Jezic's testimony was false, or that USKOK suggested what to say, and the key argument is that he never had to return 5 million euros of bribes allegedly to the state budget that I spoke about several times, so I want to point out that problem again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55679	Please. But you'll also allow your colleagues, Bauk, to respond to your replica. [[Pernar: Yes, you can.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55680	Now there's a lot bigger heads than me, but unfortunately they're empty, but there's a lot less heads than I do and they know more than I do. That's right, the size of someone's head isn't much of a criterion. To your particular question, in which you alluded to the fact that we've subordinated the banks to someone if I've got it right. There are two places where I am now sitting a colleague of Lalovec who is one of the main authors of the Law on Conversion, so-called lex franc. One member of your club is and you put him on the list and he was elected to the Parliament as president of that association, so then he can testify to you that I don't have to avoid this dose of self-criticism that you said about how much this government that I was in favor of the banks and how excited they are with her at least to this extent. As far as the specific question is concerned, since when we were in power, when we were in government, I'm going to ask those who know more about it, because even though you told me that I'm a big head, I'm not so big as to know everything. You'll get a written answer once in a while, but you'll get an answer, so you can share it with all the Croatian public when you've asked for a break. Now I assume the president will approve it for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55681	Here you go, pal Pernar. Let's hear it and others want to hear from you. Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55682	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, on behalf of the Most Independent Lists Club, I request a break of 10 minutes concerning the release of arbitration documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55683	Thank you. You want the same thing right now? And you want us to move on right now or not? Ten minutes. For all the fun I'll give you 10 minutes. So I'll see you at 23.10. [[It's 11:00.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 23.10 HOURS]] Here's a colleague and a colleague, unfortunately, time for a break has elapsed, and then we'll ask the distinguished representative, Ivan Pernar, to say on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55685	Dear ladies and gentlemen, often in this assembly MPs especially the ruling majority can smile and mock what I'm saying in a manner let you do what this Pernar says, he's a circus boy, a clown, a demagogue, a populist, etc. However, the Court's ruling in the INA MOL case points to exactly the problem I was pointing to. I will read one of the reasons why the court, or judges, did not believe that Ivo Sanader had received it, i.e. Robert Jezic received 5m euros in bribes intended for Sanader. Listen carefully. The index releases the verdict, he says, "At the trial of Sanader for receiving bribes from MOL, the crown witness was Robert Jezic, who was supposed to transfer money from bribery to the former prime minister. Understandably, the arbiters took him seriously and did not believe a word he said. Check this out, it was extremely suspicious that Jezic was never forced to invest in the Croatian state budget of 5m euros from his account that was allegedly for Sanader. Moreover, Jezic is allowed to leave Croatia. The judges believe that Uskok Jezic ordered what to testify. Why am I telling you ladies and gentlemen this? I was talking about it here, or I asked why Robert Jezić, not five years old, ladies and gentlemen, after the judge suggested that he should return that money from the bribe, the money did not pay back into the budget. I said it was a serious problem that points to a case of judicial unemployment, judicial corruption, whatever you want or legal anarchy. If it's possible for the judge to tell you you have to do something and you don't do it to anyone. And no one, of course, took care of my thesis, and everyone thought so, who cares that a man was held in his account for 5 million euros from a bribe. So what? Eat the donkey wolf! However, the arbitration court of ladies and gentlemen has made a decision based on this particular detail. Including that if this one did not have to give that money the court had logically come to the conclusion that the money Jezic had never even received. The reason, one of the reasons why Croatia lost the Arbitrage in the INA MOL case, is because this topic, this question that I was talking about, was never properly solved. Pernar shot the ladies and gentlemen at the central issue. Why isn't the money returned? Because if he had really received 5 million euros in bribes and had received them, he would have certainly paid that money. You'd have to pay. And that would be proof that there really is that 5 million euros. Look, no one's gonna say an example of 5 million euros, so he gave it out of his pocket. No one's crazy enough to do that. However, as I have said, Croatia's false dishes and dishes are deeply corrupt, the laws are written to please people like Robert Jezic and there is actually a total legal anarchy in our legal system and it is known who is responsible for it. But unfortunately not only the HDZ, but also colleagues from the SDP because they were also in power, they could change the laws. Unfortunately, they didn't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55686	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Tomislav Panenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55687	Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I think here, we've actually got one topic now, and the topic is actually the state of our justice that has been warned about and basically the responsibility to our country. Because if a document from arbitration that's classified as a secret leaks out and is published in the media it really needs to look for real causes, and these are people again. Those people who are working against the interests of the Republic of Croatia, because by publishing this document with its contents, have a strong impact on other arbitration. This is something I would say as a coup in energy. With all the efforts to take by the Croatian state, our legal team in arbitration, efforts to bring witnesses, gathering all the data that is necessary this turns out to be one slap to all of us who have fought for arbitration to succeed. Because economic damage can be measured in billions. Maybe it's fun to tell someone at all that MOST was the one who was saying it was gonna be okay. that we'll win. But in the background of this, a lot of efforts have been made just to collect despite the obstructions of top officials at the time of HDZ, documentation and people, and this is also part of the betrayal. After what you say? We're looking for an urgent investigation into where this document came from, because without where this document came from. Because without identifying the source from where anyone who's had contact could be charged. That's what I mean by the Croatian government. Therefore, the responsibility of both the government and the ruling majority is to quickly find the cause of this, so that not all of us will again be held accountable for the proof. MOST was clear that the procedure to be conducted should be strengthened, that the departure of Karamark was actually an opportunity to restore all ties with people with information, who could be witnesses and not to embarrass ourselves in a way that our witnesses did not come to testify in favour of the Republic of Croatia in the dispute with MOL. We prepared an action plan, obstructed by Prime Minister Plenkovic. And you saw the evidence when Sekulic was removed with his whispers? The prime minister said MOST's, so someone who's struggling not to close the refinery in Sisak, when it's moved, is a MOST's sheep. I think we're through this right now, actually all those who fight against the interests of the winners. We who are fighting to keep the Croatian company vertically integrated, to be the bearer as the strongest company in Croatia of overall development, we have received a blow that needs to sit down immediately and this, all of these investigative committees are free to launch an initiative, free all of us to determine the causes and to perform towards arbitration in Washington which is financial, this first one, it was only proof of Sanader's failure but this second one is financially much harder and will be a burden in negotiations with MOL, because we see suddenly that the financial results of the INA become positive, the pump is a balance, our position on arbitration collapses, the price rises, someone once again, being a good fund that will use the situation and in the name of protection of Croatia's interest well earned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55688	Thank you. Here you go, pal Pernar. Let's hear it and others want to hear from you. Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55690	I'm sorry, I'm going to rephrase well, but she's looking for a break after that. The thing is, my colleague Arsen Bauk is a big head, a very big head, a very smart man, and he's very prone to criticism. Of course, I see as well as the rest of the party doesn't have that line of self-criticity, so I'd just like to ask him one simple, simple question. Why aren't you the big head of Arsena Bauku when you were in power to put the OPGs and small suppliers above private banks in the event of bankruptcy. So why didn't you put the O.P.G.s above these macro creditors when you were in power? That's what I want to know. And as for the reason for the break, I am looking for a break because it is finally beginning to publish an arbitration ruling in the case of the INA MOL we lost, and one of the reasons we lost is because the judges believed that Jezic's testimony was false, or that USKOK suggested what to say, and the key argument is that he never had to return 5 million euros of bribes allegedly to the state budget that I spoke about several times, so I want to point out that problem again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55691	Please. But you'll also allow your colleagues, Bauk, to respond to your replica. [[Pernar: Yes, you can.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55692	Now there's a lot bigger heads than me, but unfortunately they're empty, but there's a lot less heads than I do and they know more than I do. That's right, the size of someone's head isn't much of a criterion. To your particular question, in which you alluded to the fact that we've subordinated the banks to someone if I've got it right. There are two places where I am now sitting a colleague of Lalovec who is one of the main authors of the Law on Conversion, so-called lex franc. One member of your club is and you put him on the list and he was elected to the Parliament as president of that association, so then he can testify to you that I don't have to avoid this dose of self-criticism that you said about how much this government that I was in favor of the banks and how excited they are with her at least to this extent. As far as the specific question is concerned, since when we were in power, when we were in government, I'm going to ask those who know more about it, because even though you told me that I'm a big head, I'm not so big as to know everything. You'll get a written answer once in a while, but you'll get an answer, so you can share it with all the Croatian public when you've asked for a break. Now I assume the president will approve it for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55693	Here you go, pal Pernar. Let's hear it and others want to hear from you. Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55694	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, on behalf of the Most Independent Lists Club, I request a break of 10 minutes concerning the release of arbitration documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55695	Thank you. You want the same thing right now? And you want us to move on right now or not? Ten minutes. For all the fun I'll give you 10 minutes. So I'll see you at 23.10. [[It's 11:00.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 23.10 HOURS]] Here's a colleague and a colleague, unfortunately, time for a break has elapsed, and then we'll ask the distinguished representative, Ivan Pernar, to say on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55697	Dear ladies and gentlemen, often in this assembly MPs especially the ruling majority can smile and mock what I'm saying in a manner let you do what this Pernar says, he's a circus boy, a clown, a demagogue, a populist, etc. However, the Court's ruling in the INA MOL case points to exactly the problem I was pointing to. I will read one of the reasons why the court, or judges, did not believe that Ivo Sanader had received it, i.e. Robert Jezic received 5m euros in bribes intended for Sanader. Listen carefully. The index releases the verdict, he says, "At the trial of Sanader for receiving bribes from MOL, the crown witness was Robert Jezic, who was supposed to transfer money from bribery to the former prime minister. Understandably, the arbiters took him seriously and did not believe a word he said. Check this out, it was extremely suspicious that Jezic was never forced to invest in the Croatian state budget of 5m euros from his account that was allegedly for Sanader. Moreover, Jezic is allowed to leave Croatia. The judges believe that Uskok Jezic ordered what to testify. Why am I telling you ladies and gentlemen this? I was talking about it here, or I asked why Robert Jezić, not five years old, ladies and gentlemen, after the judge suggested that he should return that money from the bribe, the money did not pay back into the budget. I said it was a serious problem that points to a case of judicial unemployment, judicial corruption, whatever you want or legal anarchy. If it's possible for the judge to tell you you have to do something and you don't do it to anyone. And no one, of course, took care of my thesis, and everyone thought so, who cares that a man was held in his account for 5 million euros from a bribe. So what? Eat the donkey wolf! However, the arbitration court of ladies and gentlemen has made a decision based on this particular detail. Including that if this one did not have to give that money the court had logically come to the conclusion that the money Jezic had never even received. The reason, one of the reasons why Croatia lost the Arbitrage in the INA MOL case, is because this topic, this question that I was talking about, was never properly solved. Pernar shot the ladies and gentlemen at the central issue. Why isn't the money returned? Because if he had really received 5 million euros in bribes and had received them, he would have certainly paid that money. You'd have to pay. And that would be proof that there really is that 5 million euros. Look, no one's gonna say an example of 5 million euros, so he gave it out of his pocket. No one's crazy enough to do that. However, as I have said, Croatia's false dishes and dishes are deeply corrupt, the laws are written to please people like Robert Jezic and there is actually a total legal anarchy in our legal system and it is known who is responsible for it. But unfortunately not only the HDZ, but also colleagues from the SDP because they were also in power, they could change the laws. Unfortunately, they didn't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55698	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Tomislav Panenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55699	Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I think here, we've actually got one topic now, and the topic is actually the state of our justice that has been warned about and basically the responsibility to our country. Because if a document from arbitration that's classified as a secret leaks out and is published in the media it really needs to look for real causes, and these are people again. Those people who are working against the interests of the Republic of Croatia, because by publishing this document with its contents, have a strong impact on other arbitration. This is something I would say as a coup in energy. With all the efforts to take by the Croatian state, our legal team in arbitration, efforts to bring witnesses, gathering all the data that is necessary this turns out to be one slap to all of us who have fought for arbitration to succeed. Because economic damage can be measured in billions. Maybe it's fun to tell someone at all that MOST was the one who was saying it was gonna be okay. that we'll win. But in the background of this, a lot of efforts have been made just to collect despite the obstructions of top officials at the time of HDZ, documentation and people, and this is also part of the betrayal. After what you say? We're looking for an urgent investigation into where this document came from, because without where this document came from. Because without identifying the source from where anyone who's had contact could be charged. That's what I mean by the Croatian government. Therefore, the responsibility of both the government and the ruling majority is to quickly find the cause of this, so that not all of us will again be held accountable for the proof. MOST was clear that the procedure to be conducted should be strengthened, that the departure of Karamark was actually an opportunity to restore all ties with people with information, who could be witnesses and not to embarrass ourselves in a way that our witnesses did not come to testify in favour of the Republic of Croatia in the dispute with MOL. We prepared an action plan, obstructed by Prime Minister Plenkovic. And you saw the evidence when Sekulic was removed with his whispers? The prime minister said MOST's, so someone who's struggling not to close the refinery in Sisak, when it's moved, is a MOST's sheep. I think we're through this right now, actually all those who fight against the interests of the winners. We who are fighting to keep the Croatian company vertically integrated, to be the bearer as the strongest company in Croatia of overall development, we have received a blow that needs to sit down immediately and this, all of these investigative committees are free to launch an initiative, free all of us to determine the causes and to perform towards arbitration in Washington which is financial, this first one, it was only proof of Sanader's failure but this second one is financially much harder and will be a burden in negotiations with MOL, because we see suddenly that the financial results of the INA become positive, the pump is a balance, our position on arbitration collapses, the price rises, someone once again, being a good fund that will use the situation and in the name of protection of Croatia's interest well earned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u55700	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57866	Dear Parliamentarians, honourable parliamentary representatives, good morning to you. Before we go to work, I'm glad we broke up the session yesterday because we had a good reason. Congratulations to our football players, I wish them a lot of success in Greece, and I believe we will watch them at the World Cup in Russia. Today's point is the proposal to launch a trust issue to the government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause]] So today we're going to be doing this thing all day, after which we're going to vote on all the points discussed. So at the end of today's debate will be a vote. Now I've seen a few hands in the air. I thank my colleague Buku for giving up, and then we can move on to our agenda and the first point is: - A proposal to launch a trust issue with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. They shall be proposed by 31 MPs and representatives based on Article 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 125 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate will take place in accordance with paragraphs 125 and 8. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The government was very clear about this proposal. I would now ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. Here, the government was coming, they thought they'd talk a little later, since you were supposed to talk, but since you gave up, here's the government. Now, I would therefore ask that, on behalf of the promoter, I assume my esteemed colleague Davor Bernardić further explain that proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57868	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, good afternoon, honourable Croatian Prime Minister, together with ministers, also welcome. The situation here is more than simple to at least the Croatian public, and our task today is to convince all MPs and advocates of their responsibility, i.e. the irresponsibility of the conduct of this government. The main reasons for proposing a trust issue to the government is the fact of partnering behaviour, which is why there is a real possibility with the creation of difficult compensation for the Republic of Croatia and all its buildings. So, the basic question and the basic reason for the mistrust is the suspicion of trading privileged information, acting in accordance with the laws of this country, especially with the insolvent law, the withdrawal of money from the fallen giant, probably and outside Croatia, escape from the investigative commission and hide the truth about Agrokor. I'm going to have to ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, why are you running from the commission? Why are you hiding the truth about Agrokor, why did you ban the arrival of the board of HDZ deputies, HDZ representatives from the government's laundry, so Mrs. Dalic, Mr. Ramljak, who is your commissioner in Agrokor. Who's going to be responsible when Agrokor's companies are sold into pricelessness and finally who's lying? Mr. Maric, or Mr. Ramljak, your commissioner. By all accounts, both of them. From the very beginning, the SDP has been pushing for zero tolerance to corruption, zero tolerance to criminal acts and persecution to all those responsible regardless of any other conditions. So, totally unselective and fast, regardless of who it's about. But what should be said at the beginning is that in this situation around Agrokor to the Croatian public, it is more or less clear. Agrokor is a HDZ child, created for the chosen, formed by selecting 200 wealthy families, '90s. years in the process of conversion and privatisation, HDZ raised him, Agrokor grew up and turned into a giant that threatens to collapse the entire Croatian economy. That's confirmed by the testimony, two former diameters from your party's ranks. Of course, the responsibility for Agrokor is for all governments, part of the responsibility, as well as financial institutions, CNB, HANFA, tax administration, Ministry of Finance, because they did not warn in time, did not prevent all the actions that led to an uncontrollable growth and one hiding of truth in the Agrokor balance sheet, but in the Croatian financial system. What they failed to specify was the emergence of uncovered bonds, which essentially represents a breakthrough in the country's financial system, which forgot about proper supervision of the participants of the capital market in the Republic of Croatia and their exposure to Agrokor, which caused pension funds to be lost only to Agrokor's shares of 200 million kuna, 200 million kuna of future pensions, 200 million kunas to the people of this country, who made fair payments to pension funds. Because they missed, too, to see, what happens in the background of factoring societies, the question of how was that possible? And my question was how was it possible to suspend the trade of Agrokor's shares because at the beginning of the crisis she was not suspended, then, after the publication of the Commissioner on the false financial report, she was suspended, and then I am alive interested in who earned the transaction when it came to Agrokor and Agrokor's shares. And who he was with. And that's why we're looking for the responsibility of everyone involved in this failure and this process around Agrokor. But what should be said is that at the beginning of the crisis in Agrokor to address this issue, which is a difficult issue for Croatia and which is why it was not easy for anyone to trust you either, or you needed a national consensus. And it's a necessary national consensus. So let me remind you, when I elected president of the SDP, I sent you a letter where I congratulated you on Christmas, New Year's Eve and asked to meet and discuss which five key things the opposition and authority in this country can agree on. About which 5 strategic things for the development of Croatia can be agreed on because our free country is the country we fought with blood in the Homeland War unless we have absolutely no consensus on key issues for this country. On Christmas Eve last year, I supported your intention, your intention and the entire government to return INA to Croatian hands. We supported her, we believed you had serious intentions. After that comes a bandage where you're trying to buy the INA to sell the shares of HEP, that's where you double-crossed us again. We warned when there was a crisis in Agrokor, we suggested, we suggested what might happen, in which way to go. We have warned and offered solutions that it is necessary to amend pre-profit and bankruptcy legislation in order to ensure fresh capital, to protect workers and to reconcile small suppliers. But not just for one company in Croatia, but for all the companies in Croatia, while you were saving "the fallen giant", many other companies went bankrupt because you did not want to change the disputed provisions that we have proposed. We are through the settlement procedure in the past term over 30,000 jobs, so you must be aware of that. Over 30,000 jobs, that's what this is about. So we showed that we know what you thought you could do. So we've already done what you've been talking about that you've done and that's the key difference. But afterwards, there is a secret meeting in the government, a series of secret meetings to which Mr. Todorovic, attended by representatives of the Knighthead Fund, who is coming who knows who else and you write the controversial Lex Agrokor but only after consulting representatives of the scavenger funds which are obviously founded at the last minute to do a great job in Croatia at the last minute as never before in their action. Of course, that's where you fooled your colleagues from MOST, you see they trusted you, they believed that you had good intentions, they supported Lex Agrokor but you deceived them, rejected them on the first turn and then inaugurated a new system that is not called political stability in Croatia but political corruption. You've taken new friends, Mr. Sauch, Mr. Vrdoljak and noble stories about how you have most of the 78 hands are stories for small children. It is clear to all of Croatia that the majority of the trade majority created by stealing the country's voters. By stealing voters, by stealing citizens of this country who have entrusted votes with other political options, that is clear. And don't just be proud of it, or talk about political stability because what you see with political stability is very clearly political corruption. It's a record. One through one. The crisis in Agrokor, the director of Todorovic in your government, Mr. Maric says everything is great, it's a great company, everything is great, but after that, it fell down. Some things don't seem right, we offer you certain suggestions and suggestions, Mr. Vrdoljak, who mentions the Titanic Government later boards this Titanic government itself, right, in the manner of a good master of property on the Titanic and tries to serve with you or save that majority. In the whole process, you spinate, of course, it's some kind of gossip, but I'll remind you. Todoric activated the law you prepared for him. So Todoric activated Lex Agrokor. There should be a very, very clear one. After secret meetings in the government, in your government. 5 months later, Todorovic appears abroad because you allowed him to pack his suitcases and call the government. Where it broke in the meantime, that's the question you have to answer, just you. Where it broke between you and Mr. Todorovic in the meantime. I must remind you that Todorovic's director is still sitting in your government, do not spin and try to spin that it is some kind of spokesperson for Ivica Todorovic because obviously you have amnesia in this case. Besides knowing you're suffering from anemia. What's clear is that after the disputed Agrocora, now we come to the point, the essence of the problem Mr Plenkovic, you must remember your right-hand faces of the SDP MPs who will prove your responsibility in the Agrokor case, shoes like they did Ivo Sanader, as they shoeed to Jadranka Kosor, as they shoeed to Tomislav Karamark and probably would Franjo Tudjman, rest his soul. [[Intruder President: Please for peace.]] And now we're going to that juicy part of the story and that's the intervention and what was going on in Agrokor. So, first of all,... We don't have to, we have to be precise and precise. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So whoever's sitting, you're just yelling at the HDZ gentlemen, just trying to hide the truth, just stick things under the carpet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57869	My colleague Bernardic, I ask you to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57870	We know from the very beginning that it is a process that contains a whole series of facts that raises reasonable doubt about the crime of epic proportions. Unfortunately, every day we learn new facts that confirm it. The only controller of the work of the commissioner, Plenkovic's commissioner in Agrokor, is the economy minister, i.e. the economy minister and the interim religious council. We'll find out later, and we'll see later that the Minister of Economy and Mr. Ramljak have been working together to make Lex Agrokor. So in some ways, it shows and raises the question of whether they acted with premeditation and in the previous agreement. But who are members of the provisional religious council? Mrs. Marica Vidakovic, Procursor Krasa, former employer of Mr. Ramljak, see god'ti. It is a person who participates in many games in the Croatian economy. And the public doesn't know that Mr. Ramljak has been Mrs. Vidakovic's consultant for two years for finding a strategic partner for Kras. So it's a person of her closest trust. Are they in Krass, a company that's... on the stock market, which was not supposed to have any stores besides that, at least not public stores, whether or not in that case they were practicing for the Agrokor case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Toni Raic, who owns a cattle grower who represents small suppliers who are in the meantime calmed down, so small suppliers are completely calmed down. With his calming and the whole group of creditors he represents, there's no basis for him to decide anything there. And now we come to the third member of the interim religious council, which is representatives of the famous Knighthead Fund, who, shortly after his draft, recognized Croatia as a small country for an unprecedented big business. He dropped all the money when no one wanted it, bought Agrokor bonds at 30% because he had privileged information that was confirmed by Mr Ramljak who was with him before that he would be paid, that he would be satisfied at 100%. So, I buy bonds that are junk, I have privileged information, and then, as some kind of transformation, I turn those bonds into money. And I'm still taking the property of Agrokor. So who wouldn't want a job like that? So tell me, who wouldn't want a job like that? Because they obviously had privileged information. There is the 4th representative of the Zagreb Bank, it has contributed to the growth of the real-estate balloon segment and the impression of independence and procedure has been appointed the representative of Sberbanke to the one who has not been granted claims. So most in the interim religious council are not random and don't underestimate us. You can't even explain to little kids in kindergarten that it's fair and it's an accident. What else did we find out during the procedure? Please. A commissioner who, as a prime minister's choice, has a salary of 120,000 kuna per month. So it's a little politically appointed, but then it's a little bit of an independent expert. And what happens to the Commissioner? An independent expert is when it comes to his salary. So important that in all other insolvency procedures, Croatia has limited the fees of bankruptcy managers. It's just not in this one. Have Mr. Ramljak show his property card. Which Ramljak allegedly sued me, I haven't had a conviction in civil society yet, I haven't received a lawsuit yet, so in civil proceedings, apparently by your order, I don't want to go into it, but I wouldn't be surprised by anything in this country. And Mr. Ramljak's lawsuit will be an opportunity to talk about Agrokor when he doesn't want to come before the committee and when none of the ministers of your government wants to come before the committee. Well, we'll call them there, and we'll call you. But he's so professional he needs consultants. And that's 141 of them. 141st adviser who pays almost 70m euros. The entire government and salaries throughout the government are worth 1m euros a year. This means that Croatia was able to pay all Croatian governments until 2085 for the money it paid, advisers in Agrokor. For 70 years. You're gonna tell me if it's an accident? So is that an accident? I'm asking you, did it happen to spend half a billion kuna on consultants? 141 advisors, 2 million kuna legal services a week. Mr. Ramljak has more advisors than Trump, Putin and Merkel together. I'm asking you, isn't that suspicious? I ask you gentlemen MPs, if that's not suspicious then obviously we live in two different worlds, in two different realities. I would not be surprised to see the above-mentioned salaries of advisers if even some new Croatian Panama Papers came out and showed that the money was going to any accounts abroad. And at this point, we have the right to doubt it. And what I would like to say to you for the end if you had not answered any questions in the Agrokor case, that you have brought Croatia into a situation where you have completely exposed it to the risk and that with the disputed Rool up contract, which is completely invisible in the Croatian acquis, you have de facto derrogated the laws of this country and the constitutional protection of all the believers on the same basis. It's pure discrimination where Knighthead's scavenger fund entered Agrokor and entered the Religious Council. If Alan Ford had this, too, not to say that the roll up was taken three times as much money, three times as much money as it was supposed to be taken when the first data came up, how much liquidity was missing. Where's the money? Where's the money? Why three times as much money? Is that in the manner of a good master or is there some kind of secret plan, some kind of hidden Agenda behind it all? This reminds me of the old woman who was inaugural in the 1990s at the time of the conversion and privatisation "who has pitted, pitted" but this time with new mates and below. Whoever didn't bail has a chance now, but it's almost gone. That's why you're running from the commission so we don't have to answer any questions. And Mr. Plenkovic, this is just a small part of what you and your government have led to. Unfortunately, your mistakes will be paid by Croatian children. Probably not your kids. And I understand that your vanity does not suffer criticism, but open your eyes. Get down on the ground, take us to the break-in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57871	All right, here's the deal. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure and 41 replicas. So this is probably a record. First breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear fellow Sauch, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57872	Mr. President-in-Office of the Assembly, an article of Rules of Procedure 238. The representative shall not be demeaning or insulting the chairperson or other representatives and the item following his or her conduct with a derogation from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. Although this has already become the usual practice of colleagues, Bernardic, but I don't think it should be the practice of this Croatian Parliament. In fact, it's not right to constantly call someone ad-hominem and talk to someone, insinuate some kind of criminal activity. Comrade Bernardić, if you have any evidence, if you have any facts please report it. You know very well why I voted back then, we talked about it in your office. You mentioned that you would like to go to the election because you want to see exactly how much a trumpet you are. So now this is how my colleague Bernardic I've known you a long time. You don't have to go to the election to find out how much a trumpet you are. I can tell you the big horn. I'm more interested in who wrote the Lex Agrokor...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57873	Time's up My colleague, please! [[I know you couldn't think of it yourself. And now you repeat it like a parrot.]] Comrade Sauch! [[/Souch: You copy someone every time. First, you copied a fellow Bandic when you were his student.]] Comrade Sauch, please. [[/Attack of Sach: Pa a colleague of Milanovic, and now you copy a colleague of Petrov. Soon you'll hear a little Neretva in your voice.]] All right, I'll tell you what I got. [[I'm asking you, my colleague, Mr. President. This isn't the first time I've been called here.]] Yeah, it's okay. I agree that you have gone beyond what our Rules of Procedure allows and insinuates someone's criminal responsibility. So, in an ugly way you were talking about a colleague who was also your party colleague once, so please don't do that. I also ask you fellow Sauch not to use words like a trumpet for someone no matter what you think. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go. No, I'm sorry, we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure before that and a colleague of Maras. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57874	Thank you very much. Mr. President, after this double dog, Jandroković Sach, I ask you to conduct Article 237, which is to maintain order at the session throughout Mr. Bernardić's exposure. HDZ colleagues have been disrupting, making noise, and you've once approved it by your gesture. I noticed. So the bigger the noise, the more you smiled. So it's not yours that you smile at the mess at the session, it's yours to lead the order. I'm only concerned about what the applause was this morning when Prime Minister Plenkovic came in weaker than last year when Mr Karamarko came in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57875	Comrade Maras, I estimate there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. There were few raised tones, but they came from your side, and the most elevated tone was the moment my colleague Bernardic stopped and kept quiet for 10 to 15 seconds for unknown reasons. Well, at the time something was going on, people were whispering. Maybe they thought who knew what. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57876	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, counterpart Saucha was injured by Rules of Procedure, Article 238, because he was demeaningly speaking about a fellow MP. I think you did, you warned him. But here I would have, once I had the chance to say, asked all my colleagues and colleagues, to raise the integrity of this House. Ministers insult MPs, the prime minister insults MPs, MPs insult each other, but based on grounds that are completely unfounded on a national basis, according to this. The citizens will be watching this debate all day long. After this debate, do we want the integrity of this House to be even smaller? I don't think we want to. We use arguments, not insults and spits amongst ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57877	My colleague Jovanovic, as one of the representatives who has never really offended anyone and who always speaks nicely, I join what you have just said. You really are quite an advocate who can say a lot of nice things about it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57878	Mr. President, you have now re-injured Article 238 with your disdainful step again degrade the Parliament from your pay phone and do exactly the opposite of what I asked my colleagues to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57879	Okay. Let's move on, let's go to the replicas now, like I said, there are 41 of them. The first one's up, my esteemed colleague, Whitey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57880	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I must congratulate Mr Bernardić, who has the courage to even go out in front of this pay phone and speak to people who really don't know or deserve to be part of a polite European like Croatia. Mr. Plenkovic, isn't it embarrassing for you to have a Sauch holding most of you? So, one representative, which not only is... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57881	My colleagues and colleagues, let's not treat each other, let's not be so unfair to each other. All right, please, colleagues and colleagues, I beg you, let's avoid personal calling and let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, I'm defending you and me. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57882	Yesterday I watched the game, I believe you've all watched the game, you know that non-civilization act, the whistle of an anthem of land that's a guest in Zagreb, and that's you gentlemen, here you are. It is you who have been keeping me from speaking for 30 seconds, who have interrupted Mr Bernardic, who simply cannot understand that democracy and listening is. No one's mean about it. People, the Croatian public sees what happens, not just around Agrokor, but about the mass of other things. Well, one Romanian country, which the European Commission envisions, is twice as much progress and growth as Croatia. Romania, I don't want to demean anyone, but I'm uncomfortable with a Romanian and Bulgaria being the country that Croatia is looking at in the back under the leadership of this government. Here's so much from me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57883	My colleague Bernardic, you can't ask for a replica now, you're looking for a reply to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57884	There's probably a problem in the tile because there's no answer to. So, colleague Beljak, I agree with you, so yesterday, we are trying to figure out what kind of spins are spinning in the Croatian public. It will be defeat if the opposition fails to bring down the government. Look, we don't crash, we build, we build Croatia. As we have shown, every time we have recovered Croatia, we are concerned and we have responsibility for this country. The glamour stories, the opposition won't work, we have most of them, which majority? A merchant majority? You decided overnight, with Vrdoljak, with Saucho, with the people who jumped into your government, the Vrdoljak who said it was Titanic, the Government, I counted on that Titanic and probably is now a procurator for property. That's what this is about. So, my people, please, don't talk or spin, the goal is to get the truth out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57885	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure relating to the exposure of fellow Whitemen, the first colleague of Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57886	Mr. President, here goes the same thing again, therefore, insult, belittled at a personal level. And now, here I am not going to go down to that level, so let me mention some, indeed, powerful inadequacies of a respected colleague. I won't. So I beg you nicely, leave me alone. You were the first one to come to me the other day, talk to me, so I could run over to your side again. You're not embarrassed. So you were sent out by all men. The ones who've been spitin' at me the most for the last six months. You see, that's where they're so bad, they're so mean. Maybe you'd be lucky for someone else, maybe they sent Beru. And then I asked you if you were going to work with most of them, with Bernardic in charge? And you said that, not necessarily with them. Here, as much as you trust, your leader of your coalition partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57887	A colleague of Lackovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57888	Priced... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57889	My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you most beautifully, we now have two more injuries to the Rules of Procedure, to concentrate on the debate on the subject, not on each other's insults. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57890	So, esteemed President, I call for a violation of Rule 238, paragraph 5, clearly that this is about demeaning, insulting MPs, and I consider you personally responsible for introducing order in this debate. So, start punishing yourself, as it does in that Rules of Procedure, to stop listening, to things like this on behalf of fellow Sucha to whom I am not a lawyer, but to all those who are now making up the ruling majority. So you have mechanisms, please, don't all have to discuss, there's a first, second reminder, so here, in that context, please introduce order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57891	Thank you, colleague Lackovic. I agree with that, and I will start using these methods because it is obviously inevitable and inevitable to come up with as much polite discussion as possible. Here's your colleague, Beljak, and you've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57892	I don't know why Mr. Saucha felt offended and called, I didn't call him, he called me now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57893	What article, say?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57894	Come on, Mr. Jandrokovic, you're supposed to be defending me, so what are you doing? So why are you letting someone talk like that? Look how he laughs, a man who has nothing to do with politics, who ended up on the list thanks to the good will of his president, the man who sold his party for freedom. [[Adversity President: colleague Beljak.]] For freedom, Mr. Sauch, yes, for freedom. If you had any balls and honesty, you'd stand in front of a pay phone and say he's arresting you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57895	A fellow white man... Comrade Beljak, just a little bit I'm asking you now, just a little bit, my colleague Beljak, first, I'm asking you like this, now I'm asking you all to calm down, to stand at the ball, to cross the border of what I consider acceptable in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Comrade Beljak, I warn you because you did not tell which article after I asked you, it is your duty to comply with the Rules of Procedure, so let us act according to what the Rules of Procedure requires of us. And I'd be begging now if it's possible, all my colleagues, to withdraw the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, not to move forward with each other's accusations, because that's what we have now come down to and continue to work on the replicas, don't you agree? Thank you very much. Don't you agree? All right, then, here's your colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57896	Thank you very much. I would agree with this if I were to get your guarantee that you'd run a session according to the Rules of Procedure, you did again what I warned you about. The article is 237, holding a session. [[President: Which article is injured?]] So Saucha spoke for more than 30 seconds, personal insults to a fellow MP and you laughed and nodded. So that's not what the President of Parliament should be doing. And I would worry if I were you, because apparently by gestures and approval in this assembly with Prime Minister Plenkovic, the biggest support of HDZ representatives has Sauch. So Plenkovic and Saucha are equally popular with the HDZ Club of Representatives, I would be worried if I were you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57897	Comrade Maras, can we get this over with with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure? Well, you won't tell me how I'm going to run the session, I'll run it as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, and as I think it's right, please. We're moving on with the replicas, coming up, dear colleague Culey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57898	Your Honor. Dear colleague Bernardich, I would like to call this action of yours, which you have performed here, a dogma action. Your entire action is focused on how you are the only one in this Croatian Assembly in this country who wants good for Croatia and the Croatian people. Yeah, you gave us support, you were on our way, we went towards a better place together only that one went down the road and the other went in the woods. Furthermore, I have to ask you, turn around and see for yourself who brought down Karamark and shoe and why. Only because of a word called lustration that was forbidden to say in Croatia. I mean, who are you going to take down this government with, and what alternative are you offering us? Was Mr. Honorable Maras, who was the Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts without a single day of work in the real sector? Or the minister of the MUP, Ranko Ostojić, known for the Svastik affair, the church of St. Marka, Pajcic and Sabadoš who retired from Novi Sad for the merits he achieved in Croatia when he destroyed Pajcic? Or our esteemed colleague, my fellow minister Fred Matic, who wrote the book "Nothing False" and it's all different just not that. Is it with him who is not allowed to come among the defenders or with some other ministers known for the Septic caves of 10 thousand euros, with 280 kuna brushes? Or will you continue with the best minister in the government, Mr. Honored Jovanovic, whom you had to remove yourself?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57899	Comrade Culey, time's up. I beg you also, let's not go, my people, so hold on a second, so don't go to people, go to arguments on the subject. I tell you that all the time. We've turned the Parliament into that we're accusing each other, we're not listening to arguments at all, we're hitting another man's reputation right now, so we're not acting, that's what people are looking at, and then they think it's a normal way of communicating. We have the content we're talking about, so it's not necessary to attack a man immediately, and then it doesn't matter at all what the content is but it's important who's talking and we're trying to compromise him at the very beginning. I'm calling all of you and please don't do this. Replication response, colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57900	Thank you. Mr. Culey, I see from your discussion that you seem to be feeling a little sorry for Mr. Karamark, I will remind you that on the other side of the assembly, so on your part, on the side of the HDZ Representative's Club, there was a shoeing to Mr. Karamark as well as to Eve Sanader, as well as to Jadranka Kosor, so it will probably be the same thing to Mr. Plenkovic when the day comes. I really want to ask you to put things back in focus. The focus of this topic. What's this about? Because I have to remind you that while Agrokor was growing you were probably as an employee at the time repairing tanks in JNA, so you don't remember the circumstances under which it occurred, so I'm asking you to put things back into focus and not talk about uninformed things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57901	Next replica, please don't, please stop and don't anymore, I'm really going to call anyone else, accuse, I'm going to make warnings and then after the second warning you lose your right to speak on this wheel. Here you go, Comrade Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57902	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bernardic, I am not going to talk about the metricity of what you have presented here in your verbal flash, but rather about a proposal to raise the question of trust with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So the document itself. I've been in politics a long time, and I've seen multiple attempts and suggestions or documents trying to download the current government, any. These are generally serious documents on multiple pages, with arguments etc. I was amazed when I saw this article, this article that has two pages of which is the first of which is actually dedicated to the story of what Agrokor is, etc. And the other one consists of a series of questions. So it doesn't consist of any arguments that would try to bring down what you are, which is why you are attacking the government, but simply questions whether the subsequent amendment made it, how this was structured, whether someone had privileged information, etc., is dedicated to the other side of your interpretation. By the way, she was written in a very strange way in a spirit that is not the spirit of Croatian, that is, some elements are more like this in the spirit of a foreign language, not English but good. What I must tell you this time, however, is the fact that you have repeated That you've repeated one invention of 200 [[Invader President: Thank you, colleague Reiner, time is up, please.]] The rich families who are... [[I'm begging you, time's up.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57903	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57904	Respect, Mr. Rainer, I almost said, so you said you wouldn't go to the metrics and then you went to roll up and started talking about the language. Look, and you said you'd be amazed. Only one who will be amazed will be Croatian citizens, Croatian farmers, Croatian manufacturing agricultural industry when there is an unwanted scenario due to this. Roll up, look inside, he's derivated the laws of this country. You can't replace an extraordinary Commissioner in Agrokor without paying the state at the price of the Knighthead Fund, so to the vulture fund at the cost of K+, 1.1 billion don't pay the amount. So do you understand that? That's what I'm talking about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57905	The fourth replica of the esteemed colleague, Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57906	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm not going to talk about the impression after your opening speech, but I'll just say don't accuse the press of not loving you because... That they don't like you, here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I expected more from you because you made a proposal to call off this government, to vote for mistrust for some reason, and I expected you as a Social Democrats to stand up for protection I don't know, workers, workers, those who work there, 30,000 people there are working, that you're going to talk about it and that you're going to offer your plan that you were talking about yesterday. But I don't know why. I'll read you a statement about why you don't want to talk about workers, which is a statement from your colleague, sitting in front of you, a fellow Matic who says in an interview, "You have one wrong policy in my party, we're talking about the protection of workers' rights and SDP as a protector of workers can't do anything. We have no answer to such questions. We are now going to Konzum to do a survey and you will see that all cashiers are voting for HDZ." So that's what fellow Matic said. He's talking about you, he's a member of your presidency. And what are we listening to today, or these days? We listen to suppliers who say we're for lex Agrokor, we're with extraordinary management, we support work, we negotiate, we work on the other side of your betrayal, high treason, united partner, blizzard, etc.. Can you put it together? Can you do that? Because simply a man doesn't believe what every day has the chance to hear from your mouths. Yesterday we hear you have a plan. Can you tell me in the replica three basics of your plan so you don't stay in some work name we've had so far, maybe I don't know how to paint a country. Can we? Here, three basics of that plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57907	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57908	So thank you for throwing me like yesterday in the match Croatia – Greece in a maestro way. I see you don't understand anything, Mr. Boric. You absolutely don't understand the essence at all. You don't understand that there are 141 advisers to Mr. Ramljak. It's not clear to you that it's going to pay half a billion kuna. You do not understand that the cost of consultants in Agrokor is now paid by 65 or 70 years of all Croatian governments, you do not see it. I'm asking if you don't see it? I can't be Mr. Matic's lawyer, but as far as workers and workers are concerned, there's no restructuring plan, so that's clear. So we have offered you a way to provide fresh money, liquidity and protection for workers through changes to bankruptcy and surplus legislation. Well, that's what we talked about, we kept saying, it's part of our plan. Why? Because we already did it. Now here's the key element. In our mandate, we saved over 30,000 jobs in the term of our government in a way that we didn't change the laws that were only worth one company and where someone with privileged information could come overnight or at midnight to the Bank Courts and then buy bonds at the expense of the trash and sell them and cash them in fat and sign up on the property, but we changed laws worth the same for everyone. And that's the difference. So what you're talking about, we've already done, so that's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57909	Let's move on, Fifth Replica, dear colleague Maras, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57910	Thank you very much. Col. Jandrokovic, still under the impression of a promotion with his colleague Plenkovic as his new HDZ leader, Sauce, according to the approval of HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57911	Comrade Maras, I beg you, we have reached a certain deal so please hold on to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57912	But it's not an insult, so it's commendation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57913	So I know, but don't, don't name names, let's talk about the subject, I beg you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57914	Let's not talk about names? Well, it's been said of names all along but this is no offense, the approval of the HDZ Club to Mr. Sauchi promoted him to one of the HDZ leaders now. That's what I was gonna say. I'm still under that impression. But Mr Bernardić, at your hearing, can be referred to and said, you said Agrokor was a HDZ child, and we can't get away from it, and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia know it. When, as Agrokor came into existence, whether Canjuga's last name, Valentić was related to SDP or HDZ, everyone knows it was HDZ's corporal and that never, in this form, would it be that HDZ did not plot it in the 1990s. But it is not the essence of these demands of ours, nor are we accusing Mr Plenkovic of giving up everything before he did what HDZ did wrong and saying that I have nothing to do with it. Our point is to warn at this point about the situation that happened in Agrokor. The old folk proverb says the opportunity makes a thief. So there was a big problem there which was obviously a great opportunity for some to gain enormous amounts of money in a very short time on the accident and on the back of workers in Agrokor. As under the company, we protect jobs some have become rich in these six months, and this is what this impeachment is about, that is, a request for impeachment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57915	Thank you. Reply to the replica of my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57916	First of all, I think every MP has the right to speak. This right cannot be taken from anyone, and what you said, Mr. Maras, you must warn of what it was, and for example, it was obviously something else that Mr. Plenkovic's advisor, Mr. Seks, said that he had pulled the Vrdoljak over the checkpoint. Now we're talking here about the new majority that fits Mr. Sauch. What's this about? He pulled it over the checkpoints. Who else did he pull? Well, that's an open question. So that's what this is about. The other thing is 200 rich families. So whose project is this? It's a project of conversion and privatisation from the 1990s. Well, that was witnessed by the former HDZ prime ministers here. So they don't run away from it either. Plenkovic did not participate in the project in the 1990s, nor could he be responsible for that period, nor could he be responsible for what was happening in Agrokor before, nor could anyone want to pin it on him. But Plenkovic's prime minister must know that there is a minister in the government who was Todorovic's director, he must know that the opposition called him for a conversation where we were handing out strategic cooperation for the key development challenges of Croatia that refused. He needs to know that after night meetings in the government, I don't know what and deals with obviously much more partners than we can figure out is a lex Agrokor five to twelve. The opposition was only invited fifteen to one to arrive at one-fifteen on a meeting. So, Mr. Plenkovic absolutely took full responsibility for what happens in Agrokor after that, complete responsibility. And it's only a matter of gentlemen of the HDZ deputies whether you want to be part of that wheel, or a class of responsibility. That's what the key question is. I suggest you don't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57917	The sixth replica of the esteemed colleague Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57918	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bernardić, it is difficult to be pressured and to defend the truth, not to say tricks and manipulations, especially those mentioned in your proposal, and this proposal can also be discussed. You have two funds, as if some copy paste was locked up in a hurry and as if it was written by Todorovic himself, because certain things in this proposal were also on the blog by Mr. Todorovic. While you were talking, I was looking at some of your colleagues, so here on your right, some of them had their fingers on their eyes, some of them had their heads in their knees, some of the great colleagues here would say "baptized" like people actually disappeared from the chair, and the top gallery actually had only a headless outline that was on the benches. They were so embarrassed when you were talking because they knew you weren't telling the truth. The thesis of HDZ = Agrokor does not suit you. You know that the Law on Conversion and Privatisation was passed during the SKH Professor Barbic, Mr. Markovic. Thesis, that thesis was promoted by your colleague Maras on the Investigative Commission and he received that there was no political decision by the HDZ on the creation of Agrokor. 200 wealthy Croatian families, when Racan was in power, you have a question from HDZ to this day no one answered even during your government. It's just not true and it's not right to talk like that. I think it's SDP = Todoric. I don't know if you represent Todorovic or Todorovic is talking to you, definitely because you can see it by the blogs he would refer to, and then you asked for a break here in the Croatian Parliament. During your government since 2012, there has been a debt from Agrokor somewhere around 925 million euros, 2013. 130 million euros, 2014 billion and 100 million kuna, of which Sberbank and WRB 600 million kuna. As far as pensions and funds are concerned The funds operate well a billion and 700 million kunas... [[Intruder President: Thank you, fellow Babic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57919	Thank you. Thank you, fellow Babic. Please hold for two minutes. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57920	Well, I mean, this, well, this is a little bit of all you've said to me, a little funny, and it's pretty unconvincing. So you're trying, look you're trying to spin that Todoric. So do you hear yourself? So Todoric activated lex Agrokor, a law prepared for him by your government, Mr Plenkovic. He activated it. They hung out at night meetings in the government. His director is sitting in a ministerial position in your government, so what did you forget? You gave him five months to pack his bags. What are you talking about? Where it broke in the meantime you'll have to answer. But what are you talking about? I mean, but I'm going to attribute it to your amnesia, because I don't see the other way, because you just said that HDZ was acting in conversion and privatisation at the time of the former state, at the time of the SKH. I mean, you're confused, you're a mess of a year. I'll attribute it to you just forgetting, syncope.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57921	The seventh replica of the esteemed colleague Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57922	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Bernardic, I simply cannot believe you said in your speech that Agrokor is a child of HDZ. Well, I don't understand why the SDP government so gently tattooed that baby HDZ. I'll say a few figures because the figures best speak, in 2012 you allocated about 925 million euros for Agrokor for bonds. 2013 130m euros of ADIS Group, 2014 1 billion and 10 million euros, of which 600 million Sperbanka and 360 VTB banks. 2015 100 million euros. The total debt from 2012 to the end of 2015 is therefore around 2 billion and 115 million euros in the mandate of the SDP Government. This government which you, so politically, without any basis call, first said, not to Mr. Todorovic. This government created a legal framework, to stop the overnight chaos that threatened this country, to stop the economic collapse and the numerous financial consequences that would arise, which would still be seen today. And this government has created a framework in which the Agrokor problem can be solved systematically. She prevented 30,000 people from losing their jobs overnight, the bankruptcy of over 100 related companies, which would last today. Therefore, do not spread conspiracy theories that are nonexistent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57923	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57924	Well, the government said no. So what did you say, not when Todorovic's director, the finance minister in Plenkovic's government. How did you say no, when Toodric activated the Lex Agrokor prepared for him by Plenkovic? How did you say no if you let a man pack his bags for five months? Is there anyone in custody maybe? They were riding helicopters, going to sea, in cars, getting salaries of £100,000, cats tore up their tongues, no one knew anything. You said no. What are you talking about? Well, that's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57925	Keep going. Eight replicas of a respected colleague of Steel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57926	Reverend Bernardic, you're so authentic, you say something first, then you laugh at yourself. Do you know what the price is for ogulinic cabbage? In early April, if certain measures had not been taken and the law had not been passed, the shelves in Agrokor’s shops would have been empty, since only milk and food were possible at that time. There wouldn't be any of your wishes, which you failedly advertised. You have destroyed the SDP that currently acts as a weakly divided orchestra, you have learned little from your ideologist Milan Bandic, he has taught you little, because you have totally followed him, perhaps you would have led better. And as you run the SDP, so would the Croatian government. In your opinion, the 28000 jobs would not have been preserved, which are now preserved, nor would the tourist season be as successful as it is now. Get a little serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57927	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57928	Here's my steel. Will you be able to come before your producers in Neretva? Well, you didn't, you left, you moved to Zagreb, you left home, and you don't care about Croatian agriculture. You don't care about Mandarin producers, you don't care about Croatian producers and Croatian agricultural products that are dominantly produced in Croatia. So what's your point of argument against me is desire. So did you from Mars go down? So do you understand what you're talking about here? Well, you're against Croatian producers. I have offered to lower VAT and we will go with this measure, to products that are dominantly produced in Croatia. You're against it, so how are you going to show up? I'm asking you how you're gonna get home? That's what this is about. Do you hear yourself?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57929	The 9th replica, dear colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57930	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to say that we are, that we are the ruling grips with a concrete proposal for a solution, which will be supported by all interested, and in what, in this great problem called Agrokor. I would like to say that in two weeks, in Osijek, as a party, we will change Croatia, we will present the framework for restructuring of the Agrokor concert. What else I want to say, or what I want to point out. All the time I've been saying that we have two big international players here, one from the west, the other from the east, and that's more than clear to everyone today. The government gentlemen and the Commissioner for Agrokor represent one of these parties and the former owner of the other side. But unfortunately, the Croatian side, the interests here are not represented. Croatian banks and funds suffer great damage because of all of this, and this will make the most of the scavenger funds that are rich in this case, and we see that Agrokor is indeed in a difficult situation. If this wasn't sad, it would be funny. He would also point out that no one would, 30 000 jobs should be preserved, protected but no one can use them and be used to justify the surrender of national values, land, water, etc. Gentlemen, in the end, all this will be revealed as always, so don't rush into such a scam, into such affairs, because it will all come soon for payment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57931	Thank you. My colleague Bernardić, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57932	First of all, thank you to my colleague Lovrinović, for returning the debate to the essence and the bottom line is that no one represents Croatian interests, that personal interests are exclusively represented. 141 advisor, half a billion kuna. So the money for advisors will be paid for 70 years of government salary, up to 2085. So is that normal for you? Trump, Merkel, Putin together don't have so many advisors. That's what this is about. The liquidity was taken three times as high as it was necessary to have a priority in charge. And who decided about it? Well, that's what my people are about, that's what this is about. Here I am, Mr. Shucker agrees. So that's what this is about. The essence of the problem with desire and manufacturers, these people filled the shelves, participated in the acquisitions, and now they're damaged and someone laughs, someone disrespects Croatian agriculture, someone doesn't want to admit it. That's what this is about. Let's get things back to the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57933	The 10th replica of a respected colleague, Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57934	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, you warned us that we were talking about content, but I listened carefully to my colleague Bernardić, in his presentation of the content there was no, there was no measure. I tried to write down the fact that a brilliant vocabulary is used by my colleague Bernardic, so these are the following expressions: crime of epic proportions, criminal acts, persecution, privatisation, collapse of the economy, secret meetings, scavenger funds, corruption. You've impressed us, and I believe you've impressed a colleague at your club. Babic made a nice comment about what they looked like while you were talking. But here I have one thing to admit, you've really managed to become, you as a party today with the leader of the opposition, the leader of the opposition. Here are more of your colleagues from the Most, or the Living Wall, they're neither heard nor seen. You've even managed to outdo them in populism. So I think that they actually educated you very, very well here, that you actually took over this one populism and you're doing very well. But one thing I don't understand is, I've been looking a little bit over the Internet, I don't know if you've been able to engage with those 800 thousand euros in Braunali you haven't? From what I can tell, you're not here. But here's the question, I'm just wondering if this Brown guy is involved, if he's hired, he's really got nothing to do with that job, and I'm afraid that when he saw the material that he was supposed to work with, he actually gave up his job. But let's talk about these fellows. ... The theme. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The Intruder President: Let's stick to the topic, I beg you.]] My colleague Bernardich, what would you be? Would you possibly be the bankruptcy of Agrokor? Because what you're saying to me only sounds if you want bankruptcy. And please explain to me this, how do you have the same statements Mr. Tororic has? Todoric's statement, the government has provided Knighthead with a robbery, such a profit has been made possible by Vlad's lex Agrokor, you say we are against the withdrawal of money. That non-transparent processes in Agrokor are managed by a vulture's fund, this is a joint partner enterprise. Are you guys on a deal maybe?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57935	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57936	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's my dear colleague Zekanovic, so you surprise me a little bit, as if you hadn't been to Croatia in the last nine months, you haven't heard of secret meetings in the government, you haven't heard of scavenger funds, you haven't heard of roll-up, you haven't heard of money counselors, so you haven't heard of any of that. I understand that you're a small party, you're an HRAST, but ask colleagues from HDZ, and here I am asking them this time to prepare a briefing, a chronology of events in the last nine months, newspaper articles, facts, to take it out for you. It's as if they've come down now, you've been in Croatia for nine months. So I suggest that you prepare it, get some information, and then we can continue the conversation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57937	The 11th replica of the esteemed colleague Roscic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57938	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bernardic, you have insinuated what the right side will do to you when proven guilty to the members of the government. I must tell you that you are not a judge even though you are trying to turn this assembly into a courtroom. If you did not know, the government in Croatia is divided into legislative, executive and judicial. The Croatian Parliament is legislative. This is a place where laws are passed and you are not involved in any debate on any law. You mentioned the numbers, where were you yesterday when we discussed the implementation of the budget? Where we were when we clearly identified positive movements despite the challenges of last year. Then you're gone. If you have evidence, deliver it to the State's Attorney's office because otherwise you're committing a crime. And with you at the head of the SDP can't safely bring down this power, it can't bring you down either. So this way you can only slow down the government's work to the detriment of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57939	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57940	You must have heard me wrong, dear. So I didn't tell you what the right hand side would do to me, but to Mr. Plenkovic. It will likely be the same situation as before with Ivo Sanader, with Tomislav Karamark, with Jadranka Kosor. That's what you're gonna do to him, the shoemaker, that's what I said, so you heard me wrong, so I don't blame you. And as far as the Parliament is concerned, the Parliament is a political courtroom, and that's how it has to be. People's representatives are here to represent the citizens, to warn about the failures and to warn about the suspicious circumstances in this case and more than enough. Therefore, we will not stop doing this, we will not stop warning, you cannot silence us because the truth of Croatian citizens must know. And she'll know it eventually. It may be a longer process, it may take some time, but it will eventually become known.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57941	Replica No. 12th Honored colleague Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57942	Thank you very much. Well, here's my dear colleague Bernardic, we haven't heard anything in your report except the charges. You've shown, you've directed, you're this, you're that. So you've been climbing in from the stained veins to convince the public that Agrokor is HDZ's child. Mr Bernardic, I know you were young, '89. But you should know that Agrokor is not a child of HDZ, father and mother of Ivica Todorovic and Agrokor is the SKH, or SDP, who adopted the Law on Conversion and Privatisation on the subject of Agrokor's pronunciation. Intruder President: Please, colleagues and colleagues, hello./... Therefore, you present here lies, manipulations, without any evidence, so you present the accusations you read on Todorovic's blog. So you turn out here to be Todorovic's spokeswoman. Just from this assembly in 2000, our parliamentary representative asked your Prime Minister, the late Ivica Racan, of whom is 200 Tudjman's family? Which 200 of Tudjman's families have become rich in conversion and privatisation? We never got an answer to that question, today is 2017. So, the SDP continues to manipulate today, you can't speak here today, you don't tell any truth, you only deceive and try to manipulate the Croatian public. And so far, your only proposal for Agrokor was its bankruptcy, and I'm not going to talk about what would mean the bankruptcy of Agrokor for the Croatian economy without even talking about human destiny. The best answer has just been given to you by the OPGs you are calling for, which are being paid today by all debts and by the other suppliers of Agrokor who supported the work of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57943	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57944	Comrade Škorić, your relationship with the people in this country is clear along with your advisor and your errandman there at the Split City Administration who told young people to leave, a wide field. It's your man directly, your responsibility. But again, it's like you've forgotten, like you've forgotten, like you've got amnesia. We've heard a lot here, that Agrokor SK, all kinds of structures we've heard, you only know who answered you best? Mr Gotovina answered you best when he told you that you had failed to find a Croatian flag in Knin for 2 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57945	Next up, dear colleague Križanić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57946	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr Bernardic, you asked who would be responsible? She will be responsible for this decision-making government, even as difficult as Lex Agrokor. Only now has it proved to be the only right decision to protect suppliers, small, medium and large. The little ones paid, the big ones who will be paid at least 40%. Now I ask you, would your government's bankruptcy or excerpt, legalize the criminal advance that destroyed hundreds of healthy companies be a better solution? Would that save farmers? But both medium and large companies? What do you even know about them? You're trying to get Mr. Cell on... I'm with small and big every day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We both support this law, we produce 30,000 pigs, 150 pigs, we have hundreds of heroes, we process thousands of acres of land, we're in the mud every day. Yes, it was meant to save agriculture but the food industry was the same. Aren't those 5,000 people who work in my county, in Koka, Vindy, Bios... Kalnik, Stochar or another 20,000 of their cooperatives and families that would be on the street doesn't matter to you? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's me. It's important to me because I come directly from the economy and agriculture. And I know something about it unlike you. I'm asking you how many suppliers would be charged to listen to bankruptcy? None. In the end, you don't care about 28 thousand jobs directly or 100 thousand indirectly in the Republic of Croatia that are saved by this law. Should we have waited for you to save them, Mr Bernardich? All that matters to you is populism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57947	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57948	So you've forgotten that we saved 30,000 jobs but with laws that are equal for everyone, that's what this is about, in a pre-gaining or bankruptcy procedure, providing fresh money, additional liquidity, protection of workers and the priority of charging small suppliers. But you made the law for only one company, and now it's clear why. And in that process you didn't want to consult anyone, now it's clear why. In this process you pay advisors half a billion kuna, now it's clear why, 141 advisors. 2 million kuna per week for legal services, now it's clear why. In this process it was convenient for the scavenger fund to buy bonds that were garbage in... that no one wanted to buy, to sell them expensively later. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's clear why. That's what this is about. I'm putting things back on track. So what you are “trying to do, ” we have already done. Or through the settlement processes. So no one happier than me to make the deal in Croatia work. But to be fair and fair, laws are not written for one company, to ensure fresh funding for other companies. Do you know how many companies because our proposal was not accepted went bankrupt? Do you know how many workers are out of work? Enough. It's thousands of people. Your fellow farmers. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57949	The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57950	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Bernardić, you have repeatedly used the word "miss" in your presentation, what has all the HDZ or Government missed? And I would tell you that you have missed something that is most important in your presentation that without intervention, there would be no 28 thousand jobs in Agrokor, an additional 150 thousand jobs in 2,300 of their suppliers, so that these procedures would be without government intervention, Agrokor's companies that are the only distributor on the islands, would be left without bread and milk, that Agrokor's companies and one of the main cattle producers were recordable, that there would be more than 100 million nights, that we have increases both in the number of arrivals and in the number of nights, all of us down especially from tourist resorts, almost no family that lives from tourism and for tourism, so you can sum up what this is all about and what it would mean. You tell us, in your exposure, this is the kind of country we've been fighting with blood. I'd say we're free of the land we fought with blood when people are out of jobs, a number of families without existence. We feel free to swear on the development of villages and islands when we have to get bread and milk across the sea, when we have to go for bread and milk for miles of roads. Is that a social-democratic party and is that her policy?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57951	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57952	Mrs. Branka, I think you're from Vodice, right? You don't go across the sea to bread and milk. But what is clear is that the people who are on the islands have also lost the Law on concessions and many other interventions of this government, it is clear and will tell you islanders, those who really go across the sea. You're not going, you're from Vodice. But on the other hand. What's absolutely crystal clear in this whole concept of not saving jobs was saving the chairs. First place of the finance minister, then chair in the government and now chair 141 advisers, which will cost Croatia half a billion kuna. 141 advisor. And you know what else we haven't seen? Didn't we see the restructuring plan? Where's the restructuring plan? Where's the job rescue plan in Agrokor? So what's this about? Not that you haven't solved the problem, but you've delayed the problem, you've delayed the problem. Why? Because you've put a billion euros in new responsibilities on it. So you have a company that's choking, you have a drowner who's barely swimming, and instead of giving him a hand, you put a fresh air on it another billion, or you put 20 kilos on it. It's the essence of the procedure. I'm trying to explain it to you. It's the essence of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57953	Let's move forward with the replica of the distinguished representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57954	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Bernardic, I have a need to highlight certain facts. In your public statements you have advocated bankruptcy as a solution for Agrokor. This would mean the bankruptcy of 70 companies based in different Croatian cities. This would mean, as we have already had the opportunity to feel the bankruptcy of more than 2300 Croatian suppliers, and in numbers there are about 150 thousand employees, i.e. only 28000 in Agrokor. And that would mean opening a bankruptcy proceedings on eight trade courts. I don't know if you're aware of those facts. This would ultimately mean around 178,000 people who would be existentially threatened, or would be left without regular monthly incomes. So we have, on one hand, a serious, responsible and competent approach by the government to this problem. Because this restructuring is actually demanding not only in European but also in global terms. And what do we have on the other side? On the other hand, we have an irresponsible and irresponsible approach that is fundamental to the Agenda to cloud water, create an artificial social crisis because you don't care about the continuity of progress, you don't care about stability. It seems to you, my personal impression, that you only care to blur the eyes of the Croatian public and that it is harder to tell who is who. Because in that case, the most successful are hypocrites, false concubines, and demagogues. But despite this, my colleague Bernardic, I believe and I am sure that citizens know the facts of the farce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57955	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57956	Well, I didn't mean to answer the tone in which I usually answer you, but when you told me that it would be harder to know who who you are, then I have to ask you which foreigners you are in? Who's who? Are you in the MOST now, are you in the HRID, are you in the HDZ? You've changed course a little in the meantime, but you're trying to change course and course with answers and false spins about some kind of bankruptcy. We have proposed additional financing, protection of workers and the priority of collection. But what we suggested now will surprise you we've already spent. We thus saved 30,000 jobs in Croatia. Yeah, walkie, we did it. What you're talking about behind us is the result of economic growth, a recovered country, and now you're pushing it back into the cracks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57957	Let's move on. Dear comrade Bunjac is on his way now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57958	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bernardic, I would like to look back on some of the things that preceded Lex Agrokor and which you may not have mentioned in your presentation. For example, the case of the Adriatic Bank or the case of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is under the direct authority of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. Minister Marić. HBOR gave Agrokor 900 million kuna credits, the Adriatic Bank 100 million kuna credits. Although the Adriatic Bank is under resuscitated, it itself is moaning under extremely heavy debts of 850 million kuna. It gave Agrokor loans in 2015 and 2016 twice the amount of the bank's share capital. So that's all it was and nothing else Minister Zdravko Maric had to resign. So he is directly responsible for those risky loans that have been given and which have not been charged until today. So they're going into what's-his-name. the bankruptcy mass of Agrokora. I also want to know how it is possible, so some foreign vulture funds are charged before the Croatian state is charged. How is it possible that until now, these claims are not paid if the state has already entered Agrokor, if it has any championship, if so it is the one most responsible for the property. Therefore, my question is that it is possible that, at a time when Agrokor represents one risky state bank company, loans amounting to one billion kuna and that these loans are not charged today, and Minister Maric remains minister in the government without any responsibility for these acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57959	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57960	Thank you, Mr. Bunzac. Well, you've noticed. I'm missing someone here today, someone's missing. One of the ministers in the government. There's no Mr. Finance when it comes to Agrokor, Mr. Minister of Finance. There's no man who was director in Agrokor, that's what this is about. And how is it possible that what you said about loans? And you know what I'm interested in? I'm curious as to how the HBOR, for example, that the HPBs who also funded and among the believers did not, for example, enter the Religious Council. How is it possible, for example, that they were not involved in the roll-up? Why does the state, through its state financial institutions, have no influence in the Religious Council? That's what this is about. The state appoints a commissioner, but then the influence in the Religious Council has someone else, and I do. Wait, please! Mr. Rainer, you said you weren't on the scale. Now I'm trying to explain. That's what this is about. You're shooting right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57961	Next up, dear colleague Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57962	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Bernardić, it's not true that we're up to something here, that we have other intentions. We warned, we suggested but as usual no one can hear us because they don't want to listen. Because HDZ colleagues say one thing, and they do the other all the time. They're talking about community, and they're not able to listen. They're talking about consensus and they can't accept the proposal if it's a good proposal coming from the opposition. And it's not just Agrokor that's about as much as my colleague noticed before me. It is the ministers sitting in this government who are being defended by the prime minister. Ministers who start trade wars, ministers who have written and convicted for it in whatever forums, have insulted others. Ministers who have mended their brothers. Ministers whose portfolios were extremely non-transparent and suspiciously conducted, ministers whose ministries gave incentives to the construction of farms of a company that neither land had for such a thing, etc. etc. etc. And of course there is no Minister Maric. Minister Maric will say the prime minister has opted out as far as Agrokor is concerned. So I would suggest that the government be excused from Croatia, so it will help Croatian citizens. Because at the end of the day, 77% of our fellow citizens do not support the work of this government, and the government allegedly has 70, support of 78 colleagues and colleagues here in the Parliament. Well, think about it, colleagues and colleagues on the other side of the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57963	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57964	Thank you. Well, you've returned the matter to the generality of the work. I've only tried to measure the issues related to Agrokor. But yes, of course we can discuss the responsibility of the finance minister who was Todorovic's Finance Director. What is the responsibility of Ms. Dalic, who is in all living affairs and is directly in conflict of interest. What is the responsibility of Foreign Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric whose husband is doing some kind of project on Cetina? Right? What is Mr Tomislav Tolusic's responsibility? What is the responsibility for knowing what and what scene we had at 8 months? What is the responsibility of Mr. Damir Krstic's failure to respond properly, and why did he resign himself? He retired later. What is Mr. Kujundzic's responsibility over 8 billion kuna debts in health care? What is Minister Žalac's responsibility because of the ever worse use of European funds? And so on and so forth. So all of a sudden, it's about the people sitting in this government. And yes, you rightly ask the question, the responsibility of the government's direction, and that's why I'm apostrophe today. But what I'm going to insist on is that the story goes back to the scale and that no matter where the information comes from, to respond to the fact that that's where the money is, who had the privileged information, why were the secret meetings. How could someone give all their property to the bonds that were garbage and then charge for it? How is it possible that the state, that Agrokor taken over by the state, had no influence there in the Religious Council? How is it possible that the scavenger fund has derivated the laws of this country, that it is above the state? And how? How is that possible? That's the point of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57965	Let's move on, replicated colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57966	Thank you, Mr. President. I've expected much more from my colleague Bernardic than your performance and your speech. I'm not going to say it was sad, but it was as modest as it was modest and this article of yours that you're trying to tear down the government of the Republic of Croatia. You know what's sad about that? It's sad that you and SDP don't understand the Emergency Administration Act. That's your problem. Take you consultants, legal experts to guide you to what this law says. You don't understand that law doesn't apply to the government. You don't understand that law is passed by believers. You don't understand that this law has already passed a court review four times. You're saying roll up's coming up. You do not understand that roll up has been confirmed by the Trade Court of Croatia and the High Commercial Court of Croatia. You don't understand that this roll-up has not been brought by the government or by an extraordinary commissioner. You don't understand that this roll up contract that was brought by the believers. You don't understand that they are doing this to preserve their interests in Agrokor and that they are interested in Agrokor's functioning. You don't understand that this roll-up contract keeps 28,000 jobs, that this contract guards 150,000 employees who are through companies that are based on Agrokor operating in those creditors. You don't understand that Knighthead is one of the trustees. That's your problem, colleague Bernardic. That's what this attempt to bring down the government is about. First of all, he's in conflict with employees. You were ridiculed by employees, ridiculed by the OPGs who begged you and the suppliers not to represent them, that with them with this administration is good, and this way is not good, and they see the light at the end of the tunnel. You don't understand that what you're offering is a pre-departure settlement, that remains an existing administration and that the resolution of Agrokora would be managed by... You don't understand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57967	Thank you, Comrade Bacic, thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57968	Mr. Bacic, can you answer me one question? If the law is implemented by the believers, why did the believers not decide on an extraordinary commissioner? Why did the government decide that? Can you answer that question? Answer that simple question. Mr. Bačić, why is the religious council sitting representative of the Knighthead Fund which was nowhere until the 3rd month? Why is the Knighthead Fund sitting there? Will you explain to me, were they involved in the borrowing of Agrokor? No, they came in overnight. Why are they sitting in a religious council? You want to explain that to me? You want to explain to me why you were here defending article 39 of the amendment? Yes, yes, you have submitted the amendment here, you have defended the amendment in which you have provided contrary to the provisions of the bankruptcy law under this law, Lex Agrokor, a priority payment in the event of bankruptcy for those who give super-senior funding, you have defended it. Why did you do it overnight? Why did you go to direct opposite? Well, that's what I'm asking you. Otherwise, thank you for believing in me, for saying that you expected more from me, it just shows that you have confidence and every day you justify it. But what I'm trying to tell you, you know it openly, and you're defending it, it's a clear situation here, you've been assigned to submit that amendment, to speak this way, but you don't believe it yourself, because here the situation is clear. Only chairs were saved, positions only, jobs were not saved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57969	Let's move on. Dear colleague Glavasevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57970	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Greetings to the members and members of the Government, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister characterised the level of debate in the Croatian Parliament and was right. So the level of debate really fell significantly below what it should look like in this House of Commons. We see the days here as answers to your discussion that they haven't been replicated by those colleagues and colleagues who actually know something about this. Those who had mandates in the government of the Republic of Croatia, acted on their duties and actually had information on this. We watched your colleagues and colleagues replicate not with the kind of pulsism that made the prime minister angry the other day but even worse. So we've been watching and listening to ad homomines, listening to lies, replacing thesis, so, despite your colleagues and colleagues, in spite of our end, insisting on us talking about the metrics, they've been taking care of the state of the SDP, which we thank but really don't need, about your Facebook announcements, which is just as nice to follow, but it's still not the subject today. Anyone who thinks there's an easy way out of this situation is wrong. It wasn't like that at all. The solution we offered at the outset was, we could say, an angry grass on an angry wound, and that's on the trail of the same honesty that SDP always had for the citizens. The HDZ and in this solution now and in disinformation and denial of information to the Croatian public, is doing exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57971	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57972	Well, I can't comment on the statements about the bottom and the individual debate, the fact is when they're going to be passed a little bit in a different way, the more serious structured debates and not jumping, then it's absolutely certain that the level of debate in Parliament will be different, that's what I think, but that the relationship with Parliament is underestimating, it's not seen in words, it's seen in deeds. The works that have been trying for months to block the work of the Investigative Commission and to vote on an investigative commission, in which every way is trying to boycott the work of the Investigative Commission, which is trying to vote that those who should be there do not appear before the Investigative Commission. The first Mr. Todorovic and then the second president of the administration after him, Mr. Ramljak. So most of them are banned from showing up there, so people see it, and I think it's more than clear. So, they boycott and hide the work of the Investigative Commission and what is important to say that at the beginning of not only this crisis but at the beginning of any serious debate in Croatian society, we insisted on dialogue, offered the hand of dialogue, offered the hand of the solution. Proposed, warned, of course nothing about it has happened and how we can now believe that something in Croatia will change. We were careful and we knew that simply this way if you write the law overnight, it can't be with good intentions, especially behind closed doors and after secret meetings in the government. The MOST colleagues were a little more careless, but now it's clear they've been fooled too. So you cheated on everyone, and now you're trying to fool all Croatian citizens. It won't work, that's what I'm trying to tell you, it won't pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57973	The next debate is a respected colleague of the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57974	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bernardic, you have made it very clear that you have presented all the potential dangers that, the processes after the adoption of Lex Agrokor can bring to Croatian society and the execution they can have in the Croatian economy and in the Croatian budget. However, you are actually misunderstood here and accused of being a spokesman for Ivica Todoric because you are making the same arguments that he is making. And yes, in one piece, it has been recently that we have been saying similar things to Mr. Todorovic, or we are warning of the adverse actions of this government and the Government Commissioner. But our motives and motives of Mr. Todorovic are completely different. Mr. Todorovic protects the interests of himself or someone else we don't yet know about. And we protect the interests of Croatian citizens because we do not want to let things happen again, bad things only in reverse that happened in conversion and privatisation. And the HDZ gentlemen who accuse you of being Todorovic's spokeswoman keep forgetting that those who created Mr. Todorovic and 200 wealthy families, and we know what happened afterwards and how this turned out to be black in Croatia, and we want to prevent such a scenario from happening again in Croatia, and that at the end of some decision of this government and other debts we all pay. There. And in the end, the hands are counting. The vote will say its own. And as far as we can see, the trade coalition is clearly moving on. It's not just a questionable gentleman you were talking about earlier. There are also other MPs who will become advisers for the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57975	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57976	The answer is clear not to forget the focus. Todoric activated the Lex Agrokor, which was prepared for him by the government headed by Plenkovic. Todoric's Finance Director is sitting as the finance minister in this government, Todorovic was allowed to pack his bags for five months. Where it broke between Todorovic and HDZ, they will have to explain it to Croatian citizens. I think the situation here is more than clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57977	Let's move on. Dear colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57978	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your presentation, you spoke about the problem of citizens' confidence in this government, especially in the face of political corruption. A new survey showed that 60% of the survey in 62 countries, 60% of Croatian citizens believe that bribery and corruption are the main problem of Croatian economy development, and even 74% of these respondents do not trust the current government and state institutions, which is on the trail of that survey from the other day where 77% of Croatian citizens conclude that the government is leading Croatia in the wrong direction. That's enough of the reasons for this request we've filed and for what you've been saying. What is worrying is that after a long time in Croatia we had really one corrupt model that we compared to a criminal association that we only remember the double painting of the tunnel, FIMI Media and other various different black bags that were being drawn from the state budget and state companies we now saw from HDZ that they had become innovative and designed a new corrupt model that we can call a practical corrupt model and this partner can be monitored from day to day on numerous examples and I will mention only three. So, first of all, it's the vulture's Agrokor partner. The other very interesting is slowly hiding somewhere under the STEM Revolution. I'd call it a pro micro robot Grandmother's partner STEM venture. And this latest micro Grill dude contract. Apparently, a fellow corrupt octopus will mark this government on its way out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57979	The answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57980	So I can't conclude anything other than that it's a joint partner enterprise when a half billion kuna is paid 141 advisers and that the cost is 70 years of work by Croatian governments, 70 years of work by Croatian governments. That's what this is about. And here it is that the conversion into the 1990s and privatisation has been acting under the system "who has been bailing, pitting" and now there is a sequel to the system "who has not got the chance, but by the system a little while longer and gone".
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57981	21 replicas, respected colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57982	Dear President, colleague Bernardic. You have the strength not to say to this government at all that there is no Minister Maric here, this Government, which the European Commission has confirmed not according to our estimates, but according to Europeans, there is a growth of 3.2% of GDP and you do not have all of your members of the club on this list, and these are the more prominent members of the club who did not sign here to launch the trust procedure. You forgot to say that Agrokor grew the most in the period 2012 to 15th, so during the period when the SDP government was in power and that same government allowed that Agrokor to achieve, to receive more than 2.1 billion euros in credit. So then you didn't stop Agrokor in that and that kind of expansion, you didn't control them, and you didn't see any failures happening at all. At the same time, you are calling for a pre-determined settlement that you so boast, and you forget that the same work would be done by the same people, so those who were in those administrations until then and who led to this collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57983	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57984	Thank you for your question. I have the strength. Thank you for asking, thank you for one more question. I have morals. Thank you for that, too. But let me remind you that in your majority there are four men, four MPs who voted against, i.e. that the Minister of Finance would go away. I'll remind you of that. I'll remind you that with the amendments to the law, 30,000 people were saved in Croatia, but that was for all companies, not just for one company. That part you forget or do not want to watch or are unable to understand or simply misinformed the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57985	Let's move on. Next up, it's Comrade Weeley. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57986	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, so my colleague Bernardic, here he is in your debate you mentioned and made it clear that in some way this responsibility for the Agrokor case is borne by all governments. Yes, Agrokor is actually proof of how failed Croatia is, I will say more. More, because I have faith in this country. Agrokor is proof of this, because instead of the market determining our prices and managing the distribution of capital, it was some other criteria, bonds without cover, blackmailing suppliers, murky guarantees. So what's our answer to this problem now? The answer is the law that keeps this kind of economy model that we've been building for 25 years. And you had your chance, this government had a chance. Because every crisis carries a certain opportunity. The opportunity was already to move away from one of the actors, the finance minister. Despite his expertise, he is a man who bears part of responsibility. He's a man who works well and creates this government's policy, creating your reforms, unfortunately from which a small number of citizens benefit. Tax reform 3% of citizens benefit from it and that's just the richest part. Retired, yes, benefit, 1% increase in pension, 10.15 kuna maybe. They, the ones with the lowest salaries and there are a million, too, the minimum benefit of these reforms. Instead of taking advantage of this growth, which is, here last year is 3% and this year 3%, to come from a certain increase in standards for the largest number of Croatian citizens, we are not using it, but we are constantly increasing inequalities. This law is proof of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57987	Thank you. You can answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57988	You mentioned the responsibility of the institutions and I agree with you, who is responsible for losing to the pension fund 200 million kuna? Who's responsible for losing 200 million kuna pensioners? But not only will he lose the pensioners, but he will go another 500 million kuna, half a billion kuna, to 141 advisers in Agrokor. So, half a billion kuna goes cost, 70 years of paying all Croatian governments. By 2085 for advisors in Agrokor, for the restructuring plan, which we still haven't seen. That's what this is about. And what you've done well apostrophe, so in this situation we're trying to be responsible, trying to allude and warn about a solution and trying to put things back in essence, to responsibility. For this situation, Ortacluka, someone needs to be responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57989	Next replica, dear colleague Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57990	Thank you, Mr. President. I listened carefully to your 20-minute exposure, which should explain the reasons for this resignation request. At 11 minutes you said you'd get to the scale of things, so then you added up a little bit to say it. And then you're all about the measure of things being a 141 consultant that costs half a billion and you repeat it today all day long. The only thing you didn't say was that these advisors don't pay out of the budget and they don't go on the burden of taxpayers, but on the basis of something else. On the other hand, from the whole thing, I realized your discussion, only when you said here that you saw the Parliament as a political courtroom, and then all your answers went ad-hominem. Even, you don't adopt, admit the elemental facts, that the conversions began not in '89, but in '88. year, with Anto Markovic, his law and not then with the SDP, but with the SKH, without this SDP supplement. Why do you need that? So that you may condemn others according to that phenomenon, and save others from any concern to you. You mention the 200-family project. I repeat to you, if you quote me, anyone from official politics, Croatia, HDZ, that this project has ever been mentioned, I pay you all in opposition for lunch, for all of you. And I expect if you don't say it, you don't quote it, you name it, who ever said it, then you pay this side for lunch. If that's hard for you, then apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57991	Thank you. Wait a minute, colleague Bernardic, there's a colleague named Pernar with a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't know for what reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57992	Article 238 of MP Tudjman, an insult to the communists, and his own father was a communist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57993	Comrade Peranar, there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have injured the Rules of Procedure and I give you a warning. Let's move on, reply to the replica. Here you go. I just, uh, forgive my colleague, just to say two warnings and take away words, so you're ready for those who get a warning, so you can't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57994	Mr. Tudjman, I'm not going to talk about 200 families, because here I've said everything, you know who said it, it's very clear how that concept was made, and maybe in that part of the answer, I don't want to answer you because you're kind of tied up. But what I'm about to warn you, I'm going to give you a metric answer. So, you said that advisors are not paid out of the budget, the state has, by intervention, by special law and appointment of its commissioner, taken direct responsibility for the company, exposed Croatia to possible lawsuits and exposed the entire system of Agrokora once, let's say so to a strange, strange formation which is now bringing into the religious council debtors who have not even been in the past. So that's what this is about. And the state has a risk, there is a risk of potential lawsuits, problems due to interventions in Agrokor company which is contrary to part of Croatian legislation which is not the same for all in Croatia who are favoured and discriminated against by the creditors, this is what this is about. I, too, supported your proposal on the Committee on National Policy and Internal Security when you said that the report should be requested from both secret services and I support and recall that conclusion. I also remind you of where the former Minister of the Interior, that is, the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, is to call for a session and finally show the report, the report to the service. Because, of course, the services in this process need to be well informed. Let them come and explain what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57995	Then let's move on. And the next is Honorable colleague Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57996	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I thought I'd talk about some other things but they're mostly mentioned but I'd depend on this last of yours if it were so-called. by intervention of Croatia exposed to charges. So please say, so if you knew anything about the basis of which legal basis would be prosecuted and who would be sued? What a court of law. So you can't sue on the basis of your will or representing who knows whose interests but there has to be some legal basis for it. What I'm saying is, when you're talking about intervention, the fact is, and you've repeatedly noted that the law was activated or the administration was only activated when it was previously, when the owner asked for it. So that's exactly what it is, it was a fundamental argument against what you just said. I don't know if you're aware of these contradictions. As far as the Emergency Administration Act itself is concerned, I think you should read it first when you comment on it so much. So, let's say you mentioned that an extraordinary commissioner corresponds to the government. So, Commissioner-in-Office, the responsibility of the Commissioner-in-Office is as set out in Article 11. The Emergency Administration Act lays down Articles 92 and 93. The bankruptcy law you're referring to. Well, you should read that. Article 14 is replaced by the following: The Emergency Administration Act explicitly states that the supervision of an extraordinary commissioner, an extraordinary administrator, is carried out by a court that eventually appointed him. As for the scavenger funds, etc., one question for you, is ZABA a scavenger fund? Is Zagrebačka banka a strvini fund since it is one of the main participants in this roll-up loan, means in roll-up credit. And in the end, as far as the religious council is concerned, you deny the right of the greatest believers, representatives of the largest Croatian firms to participate in the religious council. So who, apart from a believer, should participate in a religious council and the foundation of what? If the state needs it, does that mean nationalisation of claims and debts? Does this mean that Croatia should take over the responsible Agrokor directly? So there's a little confusion here, so I'd like to ask you for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57997	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57998	Now, my hawk, you've been messing up, you've been messing up, you've said a lot of things. Unfortunately, you've come out of essence and the bottom line is there's a scavenger fund in there. Can you not see that? Is it possible that you don't see it? I'm asking you, is it possible that you don't see it? Is it possible that you don't see that they bought bonds the moment no one wanted it because they had privileged information because they met Ramljak at a secret meeting and got an abracadabre wand, bonds that are garbage and which can later be converted into money and still protect property. Is it possible you can't see that? Is it possible that you can't see that they're discriminated religious? I can't figure it out. So you see it, open your eyes, defeat vanity, win, let's do it, some spins, open your eyes, look. Is it possible that you can't see that half a billion kunas are paid by advisors, half a billion kunas? So the cost of all ministers in the government, here are the people who sit at 1m euros a year and we will pay almost 70m euros for the advisor's expenses. So the cost of advisors is 70 years of work by Croatian governments. So it's possible you can't see it. So I invite you to open your eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u57999	The next replica of a respected colleague, Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58000	Thank you, President of the Parliament. In your presentation, you said that Agrokora's obligations were enormous, yesterday we received information of more than 58 billion kuna and you mentioned in that statement that in part of this were the bonds issued without cover. I have repeatedly asked the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and others here to say how many bonds have been issued without cover, what deadlines, what have the responsible state bodies, responsible people, done, these are questions we ask from the HSS, which ask citizens from the field how it is possible for a company to operate in this way, issue false financial reports, that it only responds when international institutions warn about it. And now that this commission should be examined and the president of the Republic of Croatia says that the commission should examine what institutions failed and which people and that someone finally ends up in prison silence. The commission needs to be abolished. And the grandmother who takes a kilo of mushrooms out of the woods and sells at the market quickly ends up in jail. I talk to farmers and craftsmen every day. They don't get it. They don't get it. They don't get it. How is it possible that more than 10 years were gone, or if there was a reason, which was reacting in companies from Agrokor. These are the reasons why our shareholders are mostly in a blockade because they were operating in unequal circumstances until liquidity funds were available on one side, others were getting loans from HBOR and they were already known that Agrokora companies were in blockade and poor financial reports. And here you can't believe these polls where 77% of citizens say the government is going and the state is going in the wrong direction. So let's poll these 50,000 that moved only to Germany, which they already said all their own, they don't trust this government and unfortunately the buses are still leaving Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58001	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58002	100,000 people have moved out in the last two years, a large number of people from Slavonia, Slavonia is empty, and when we discussed this problem, the other day, on the Committee on Labour and Pension System, no one came from the government, absolutely no one. It's just talking about the relationship. Not that they didn't deal with the problem, they don't care. It just doesn't matter to them. And you guessed the point. A little salesgirl, a housewife, a small craftsman, if she doesn't pay 500 kn, he's shut down. And those who black out millions, by helicopter, drive to the sea, ride in joint redesigned Mercedes, return home to fairies and no one, and that's the point. So, the state, the laws don't apply equally to everyone. Like the law of Lex Agrokor, it doesn't apply to everyone. Because if you were saving jobs, then you'd be saving jobs in some other companies that went bankrupt, not talking about how you save jobs, and you just saved your own chairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58003	Next replica, dear colleague Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58004	Dear counterpart Bernardic, the best feature of your speech was given by your colleague who said your speech was misunderstood. I fully agree with her, but only for reasons because he was truly incomprehensible. Because as you said yourself, you divided it into two parts. In the first part where you talked for 113 minutes, you mentioned all sorts of things, including some letters, to which you congratulated Christmas and all sorts of things, and then at that moment you said to the passing bit. The SDP did not submit the amendment, but at the bankruptcy law, he tried to push it through various channels. And when I listen to you, but also when I read this, I ask myself the question, who put together these few sheets. I call on the Croatian public to compare it a little with the blog Todorovic and what you gave as a request for a government shift and all that you said. Because that's what the SDP has come up with in these demands to quote Todorovic and demand the government's shift? I knew a much stronger SDP, with presidents who were very understanding when they spoke suggested something like this. In this proposal of yours, it's really hard to understand what you want. And you said now I'm gonna talk about being. The only real thing you didn't say was 150,000 people. You don't seem to know how many people it is. The city of Rijeka has 113,000 inhabitants. The city of Split, how many inhabitants there are. That's 10,000 people on the street if it wasn't for this government, this determination and this law. Those people are still working. This Marica, Anna, Maria, all the other employees in Konzum still receive such wages, are not on the street, are not on the street. What you wanted with this is not clear to me. And it will remain incomprehensible forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58005	Thank you, colleague Klaric. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58006	Well, it's obviously incomprehensible to you, but there's no help here. I even think you're holding the wrong paper in your hands, so much for incomprehension. What is very clear in this situation in this situation, Mr. Klaric, and well, you can spin it in one way or another, but it is clear that after the secret, night talks in the government with Mr. Todorovic, I have activated the law that Mr. Plenkovic prepared for him, for which you raised your hand. It's a fact. Todoric's Minister, i.e. The director is sitting right in your government. He's the finance minister today. It's been five months, so you don't see it. Well, if you don't see it, it's absolutely clear to me that every proposal is incomprehensible to you. Even you weren't holding any good paper and you turned it upside down.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58007	Next up, dear colleague Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58008	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bernardić, I listened to your presentation, most of the time you used Agrokor, and that's clear, that's one of the most important topics, but you mentioned at one point to the INA, and I'm going to ask you, do you know, that in INA recently 50 executives have been fired. Do you know that in INA in the last few years 2,000 people have been fired? Do you know that MOL owns 48% of INA, while Croatia rules 44% of INA. And that MOL is fully in control of the INA. My question would be, do you know that... It intends to buy INA, and when we talk about the strategy, the national strategy of national importance of INA as a company, which makes the Croatian government not exactly that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That INA doesn't become a company in Russian hands, as they intend and with everything you've been saying about Agrodor. I'm saying, I agree that we should take care of everything, but once we lose INA and we're locked up by a refinery in Sisak, when we close our refinery in Rijeka, then we'll be too late to think about national interests, and whether the INA is a company that can still be influenced and remain in Croatian hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58009	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58010	Thank you, MP, a year ago I was in the refinery in Sisak, talking to the representatives of workers and since then I have been closely following everything that is going on in INA, about the lack of any plan to modernise the refinery, not to implement the provisions of the contract, until this kind of action by the Government came into the situation that on Christmas Eve last year, it promised to return INA to Croatian hands. That's when we supported it. We supported both lunches, so they mocked us that we were all in the same car together, but then the real intention was revealed, the real intention was transparent, and that was the sale of HEP to buy INA and that it would probably go back to someone's advantage. To this day, a year has passed, there is no plan for the INA. What we know, we have this lady minister who has a certain impact on INA but what we don't see, no plan for INA, no strategic partnership, we don't see that the government has anything to do with the return of INA to Croatian hands and what's most important is the protection of workers and the protection of production. Because the refinery in Sisak, a refinery in Rijeka, are companies that have been operating in Croatia for many years, there is a knowledge of how, there is knowledge of Croatian people, there is a production that should not be thrown aside and shut down and there are workers, human fates, their families that work and who hope that tomorrow they will be better off, or tomorrow they will not be out of work. And that is why it is our responsibility to find a solution for the INA and we see that this government is not looking for a solution for the INA, we have offered a solution for the INA, as we have also offered about every problem that bothers Croatia but this interpretation and this debate over the INA has not even arrived imagine, in a year on the Parliament's agenda. Well, I beg you, Mr. Reiner, when Mr. Jandrokovic won't, so you push a little bit for the INA debate to come to the Parliament's agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58011	Thank you. I will when you hold on to your special time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58012	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, prime minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Bernardic, you stated in your debate that the state institutions were covering up the real situation in Agror. 3 months ago, when we discussed the State Audit report, the supervision of companies and supervisory committees for the period from 2013 to 2015, meaning for the period of Milanovic's government or the government of the SDP, you said, "People cannot paint and throw dust into the eyes with some recommendations that you have written here that may be good, but they are drawing attention from the real problem of corruption and crime happening in the background," Bernardic said. So then we discussed a report on the work of companies, supervisory committees appointed by Prime Minister Milanovic's government. I think you're familiar with everyone here, that anyone who has information, evidence, fact, any indication of any crime, the cover-up, is obliged to report. Therefore, I would like to ask my colleague Bernardic whether you will report state institutions that have clearly covered up some evidence for Agrokor or perhaps even corruption, a crime that is happening in the background at the time of the SDP or Prime Minister Milanovic? Among other things, that's when all the problems with Agrokor begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58013	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58014	Well, you probably got me mixed up, so I'm not the Attorney General, but our job is to warn you of anything that's conscious or unconscious, it's either a slip or a intentional event, that's what this is all about. And no one can be deprived of responsibility. It's a basic idea for people to account for what they've been doing or for what they haven't done. Very clear, Mr. Striker, very clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58015	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Madero, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58016	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bernardić, do you think that Lex Agrokor is as mentioned that it is a major reform of the economy or is Lex Agrokor like Lex Vlahusic pa Lex Sheriff who will be passed, all the interesting laws for individuals? Lex Agrokoro has money among other things for the salaries of all counselors, the question of what will happen to those who have claims to Agrokor and whether it is considered a major reform of the economy. So there's this lex and lately a lot and they're all contributing to some reform and at the same time in the last few years over 100,000 young people have gone and left our beautiful one, so I'm asking you, would you maybe, with these lexes, suggest to the government that we bring the lex 'young out of ours?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58017	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58018	Well, that lex was brought in and it's called a government program, and it was confirmed by a colleague of the prominent Splitian HDZ who told young people a wide range of fields. Well, you shot the point, Mr. Mader. We saw everything, we just didn't see a plan to save jobs and a restructuring plan. We have seen the trading of privileged information, the guessing of scavenger funds in roll-up, we have seen half a billion on advisors, so advisers that will cost the Croatian state more than 70 years of government, that's what this is all about. The only thing we haven't seen, we haven't seen any plan to save jobs and a restructuring plan, that problem has been delayed. A new task has been taken that is three times larger than the one that needed to secure liquidity in order to see that, in order to pay for the counselors. 141 of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58019	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58020	Thank you. My colleague Bernardic, you keep saying that Ante Ramljak is the government's commissioner. You forget or don't know that Antu Ramljak was appointed by the Trade Court and that he doesn't answer to the Government but corresponds to the Council of Prophets to whom Agrokor is and owes. You keep repeating the question of who wrote Lex Agrokor and you put it in the hands of this government, thank God, if the world's greatest experts are consulted because it would guarantee competence. I don't mind, so lack of arguments, though. I don't mind even indifference, I don't mind replacing the thesis of incompetence and even when it comes from the lines of opposition because it hurts all of us. What this lex Agrokora as we call it is actually prevented by the bankruptcy that you've actually only offered. He therefore prevented the loss of 150,000 existences in this country. And if the government hadn't made a competent and determined move today, in many buildings, so Konzum and Agrokora would be born bats or junkies with bare needles. That would have been the outcome if the government hadn't taken this move.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58021	The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58022	You obviously slept through Mr. Ljubic. So the Commissioner in Agrokor appointed the Trade Court but on a proposal from the government. You forgot that detail. Another thing who wrote lex Agrokor? You said experts. What kind of experts? Well, Mr. Seks, Mr. Plenkovic's advisor said it was his magnificent work. Well, I've repeated multiple times who wrote lex Agrokor. What kind of experts? No experts were involved. It's a personal act, Mr. Plenkovic's personal office. Well, that's confirmed by his advisor, Mr. Shakespeare, who talked a little bit about the checkpoints and how they were pushing the Vrdoljak. And secondly, I have to ask you because you are a representative from Bosnia and Herzegovina what did you last do for people in Bosnia and Herzegovina? That's my question. And I only know what I heard, that is, what I saw here in this Croatian Parliament back in 2000 and some years, that your party was founded by Ivo Sanader to break up HDZ BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58023	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58024	I would like to thank Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister with the ministers. Mr Bernardić, the first point of your proposal clearly defines the importance of Agrodor for Croatia's economic system for 30,000 employees here in Croatia and for our domestic producers. In view of all of the above and in your proposal to conclude that this company is indeed of great interest and importance to the Republic of Croatia and that it is brought into a situation that requires a serious and highly rational approach. And that's what the government of the Republic of Croatia and Prime Minister Plenkovic did. It would make you think that when you are so loud and resilient in your criticism today, you will also have a concrete proposal to call off the Government of the Republic of Croatia all this time behind your demands. I call on you to propose a rational, more efficient, but above all a concrete model for solving the problem that has arisen without being a bankruptcy that is so easy to read and take into your own hands the fates of a number of citizens. You yourself have recently stated that suppliers are satisfied with the Lex Agrokor in the media, and that the OPGs who received and paid all their debts are satisfied. Now what I'm interested in is what exactly you're defending citizens by trying to take down a government or maybe defending your rating, that's for sure already now. And defend this rating at the heart of the true interests of Croatian citizens, the interests of employees and the interest of financial recovery. As a friend, I would suggest that you learn to learn from your own mistakes and instead of collecting, here are the cheap political points here today on the pre-disrupted and missed initiatives. I call upon you today to propose something constructive at last, and I have one more question if you will allow me. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58025	Thank you. No, no. You used your time as a colleague. Now will be answered by the esteemed representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58026	Dear Mr. Rainer, I'm always about to let a colleague who spoke, who asked especially if he had carefully and in detail read what they had written for him. Here's a nice read on what they've prepared for you. You can sit down, good three.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58027	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58028	Thank you very much. You have injured the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, because in accordance with Article 238. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, which brought the SDP's majority, did not warn a colleague, Bernardic, that he should not insult a young colleague. But he obviously failed to accept his predecessor's manners.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58029	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure has been raised and the honourable representative of Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58030	Dear President, my colleague Bernardic injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of paragraph 1 and subparagraph 1 and paragraph 5 of downplay, insulting other MPs, have done so here and in my case, by making false statements, and in fact only shows the actions of desperate people where they are not discussing the measure of things, but are practically being transferred and counter-indicted beyond the subject of this conversation tries to stegmatise the representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58031	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to, now we're seeing again with those injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here's Honorable Representative Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 235 of the meeting has been injured, or you have been injured. I am asking you to hold a session as led by your President of the Parliament, as Col. Skoric has been appearing for an hour and Mr. Jandrokovic has not allowed him to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. And now he couldn't wait for him to leave the assembly so he could finally say something Mr. Bernardic told him an hour ago. So please continue to adhere to the criteria set by the President of the Parliament this morning so that we do not have these situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58033	My colleague Djujic, first I run the session the way I'm gonna run it, you're not gonna tell me how to run it. That's one thing. The other thing, I ask you nicely together, that, after one period, I would say normal discussions, I see to each other that the stories with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure have begun again, which did not hurt the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, some of us’s decency or rudeness toward others goes to them. And the people will look upon us, and the people will judge who is right, who is decent, and who is rude, and who is used in a dictionary that is not like this House. So, please, let's not abuse the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, let's do that job that the citizens of Croatia have put us here. We have stopped at a respected colleague, Andrija Mikulić, who will now be replicating the respected representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58034	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bernardić, you have often used the word amnesia today. Amnesia usually causes you loss of memory of a certain period of time or a certain event. For the sake of the Croatian public, I will remind you or recall the expressions of the admiration of Gordan Maras when Mercator was bought. It is a great success of the Croatian economy. Congratulations both to Agrokor and Ivica Todorovic, who achieved great entrepreneurial success, expanded his company to the regional market and created a regional retail leader. Or we're sorting out SDP's Deputy Prime Minister at the time of Branko Grcic. When Agrokor sneezes, the whole economy gets cold. We can't spread bad news about Agrokor. The same predecessor, Mr. Maras, lobbyed for you for a manager of Agrokor to come to the principle of a chamber in Croatia. You're saying Agrokor is a HDZ child, now I've read to you what your members have declared. You have one advisor, former mayor of a city who's your advisor, and it seems to be your successor. As far as pre-warrant, then I'll remind you, they only made a big deal and managed to make a deal. With this law, all the kids got rid of it first. But obviously it doesn't matter to you, which is small and what is a great believer and supplier. And when we talk about how we should act, then trust me, and this will be assessed by the Croatian public, that this was the only possible responsibility and legal action in line with constitutional possibilities. That's what the government did.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58035	Thank you very much. The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58036	You started reminding me, it's like I remind you what it was like when you were still acting as a youth in the Communist party, but I won't do it. What I'm going to warn you about is that this law didn't protect itself small, because they just brought into the religious council a great one. And what big one? Those who have not even been in the process of Agrokor, the believers, have come in afterwards. When the bonds were purchased by 30% based on privileged information. Well, that's what this is about, because you don't see it. Another thing, Mr. Mikulić, so every acquisition, Croatian companies, i.e., a company that has any connection to Croatia, is something that we in Croatia should look forward to. Well, it's like when he plays Rijeka, when he plays Hajduk, when he plays Dinamo abroad, so we all want him to win, no matter what someone's a Dynamic, which is a Hajdukovac and what someone's rooting for Rijeka. We all want our club to win. So are you rooting for someone else? Who are you rooting for, other companies? Ponds?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58037	Here, again we have raised plates for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative of Andrija Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58038	Thank you very much. I am sorry that the esteemed representative Bernardic hurt Article 238(5) and demeans it. I've already said on many occasions that I have a judicial verdict against these very views and lies. And he'd beg no matter what he has immunity, to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58039	Okay, thank you. ... I'd like to ask my colleagues to calm down a little bit. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Dear Representative Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58040	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, is there any point in Article 238 that, on the question that I would say here, to see here the breach of the Rules of Procedure we are listening to, is there at all an insult to the common sense of people what is said today. I've heard of Mr. Bernardic twice, Croatian government for 70 years. If the comrades brought back the kidnapper they'd taken from '45. Furthermore, what they illegally adopted, social property, we would settle the state budget. Because this central committee, this is what people are listening to and I can't believe what they're hearing here today. Because you're celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Russian Revolution?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58041	Okay, of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58042	Article 238 was injured. I am, I am, I am somewhere Mr. Mikulić read, that you were a member of the Communist party and that you pleaded as Yugoslav. If that's not the case, if you have a final verdict, I really apologize to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58043	Okay. That's correct. And that's how it's supposed to be done. If false claims are made, then you should apologize, yes. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58044	Dear colleague Bernardic, please Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58045	Please, let your colleague Bull say what he wants to say, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58046	I'd like to give you my colleague Bernardic a replica. You mentioned at one point that you were sorry for MOST. I'm sorry it wasn't a group of people 15 years ago even while your government and the HDZ government were not showing up a group of people like MOST who said no in this way, not selling HEP. And this is the government, and I'm sorry that it's not Prime Minister Vladimir Seks here because he said it himself in the media, that he's made up the majority now, taking away your partners in part from you and putting together a government unremembered in the history of Croatia. And it would be good to have Prime Minister Shakespeare up here on the balcony and ask him if he knows about the formation of this government and here I agree with you that this government has to leave because it is simply Andrei Plenkovic who is not the one who runs this government. This government is governed by Vladimir Seks, Valentić, Greguric, the people who created this system and MOST said not to sell HEP, I personally filed criminal charges against HANFA and HNB immediately after I learned, I'm sorry that your governments didn't, too, I'm sorry, they're not like HDZ. I hope that one day, Prime Minister Shakespeare will come here and speak to the Investigative Commission everything he knows about Agrokor together with Valentis and Greguric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58047	The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58048	Well, here's my esteemed colleague Bulj, so I'm also sorry 15 years ago that you may not have activated yourself, certainly the political scene in Croatia would have been more interesting if 15 years ago when you were still younger, perhaps even in a larger form, you were in the military, then yes, you couldn't, but it would have been good anyway. Yes, what you've done well apostrophe, you said that one commercial majority was formed and that's true. So we had this so-called. The leader of the opposition who claimed to be the Titanic Government, that the whole story was going the wrong way, and then at the last minute, these same people infiltrated the Titanic, I guess, to be members of the Titany List Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58049	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Šipić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Bernardich, what have we heard from you today? Nothing special and nothing new. All you said was in the daily media structures and in the organized attack of only one part of SDP MPs, I say only one piece because these days, the good part of the SDP was not in the assembly. And all of this has come across a solid reviling of the good work of the public. Well said, two worlds. Because what we heard has absolutely nothing to do with the world we want to build in Croatia. Did you in this promotion and attempt to raise the party's rating in a very cheap way consider what good brings this day and this debate to all our citizens, to all suppliers, to all OPGs, to all farmers, which brings this kind of attempt? Your request and approach does not contribute to the new hope and new future of the Republic of Croatia. It is legitimate to ask questions and to draw conclusions and thesis, but if you have offered a solution, you have not at any time offered a solution through this many issues. You keep trying to advocate bankruptcy, but what we do know is that when such a process starts, small suppliers ultimately stay short sleeves because they're the last. You too are the cornerstone of an attempt to bring down a government law that saved thousands of jobs, the Agrokor theme. But the government has been working hard through many topics to improve the conditions of these citizens. I'm asking if this morning, as my colleague Grozdan asked, have you seen the news and the rise in GDP? Here's what I'm curious about is whether or not you're interpreting that increase. Here's the thing, if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58051	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58052	I've seen GDP rise in 2015, but there's no question how much GDP can grow as much as you can sum up. That's what this is about. You can't shit as much as you can knock it down. Do you know what you just said? So you sat on your ears while we proposed measures for the recovery of the Croatian economy. Priority payment, superior financing, protection of workers, so you make fun of me with Croatian want manufacturers, with producers of Croatian agricultural products. Well, you're making fun of it, aren't you, Mr. Representative? How come you're not embarrassed from this pay phone to fire it like that? I just have to give you credit for the style impression. So in your reading of the material that you have prepared, you have little and little surpassed your colleague to whom you are sitting, so that this impression of yours may be evaluated, you can sit, very good, 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58053	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58054	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. From your answers, Bernardić, it is evident that you are increasingly nervous and it is clear to me that it is not easy for you to respond to these forty replicas, but it does not give you the right to be more and more insulting and disdainful to all MPs who do not ask you what you would like or ask questions to some and you know that I cannot answer you because there is no answer to your reply to the reply. But what I wanted to say to all of your exhibits that you want to explain to anyone why the SDP wants to change the government, the government led by Mr. Plenkovic is nothing more than I have to repeat the argument of the fugitive from Mr. Todorovic's Croatian judiciary. And you can't get away from it. It's just like that, that's what we've all heard. We also heard from your statement that only sometime in thirteen minutes did you remember to move on to the essence of things. Until then, you have called the coalition that was created and which supports this government in order for this country to have stability and that the economy could work. So I and this law on Agrokor was passed with that very purpose. But I wanted to tell you one more thing. Be a little careful when you mention these 141 advisers in Agrokor, their salaries, because among these advisors is one of your prominent SDP members, Zvonko Mršić, and you wouldn't be wise to take him off the Agrokor payroll because he will then return to the party, and then you will lose your job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58055	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58056	So you guys have a plan, too? I didn't know that. Well, you have a plan, so that's great. You're talking about a fugitive. So who gave it to him? So what'd they forget about you? Oh, no? Five months to pack the bags. You didn't hear that? Who's nervous? So see what the President of the Republic says to you today? In Croatia there is an emergency. You people don't see it? 80% of citizens think Croatia is going in the wrong direction. 100,000 people have left our country in just two years. It collects electricity, educational reform has been delayed, there are no reforms just postponing and pro-longing problems. The only thing concluded in a hurry is lex Agrokor overnight after small night arrangements in the government, after meeting with representatives of American scavenger funds, after the circle. It's the only thing that's been done without any consultation with the opposition. So I don't think you see it. You will simply see at the moment when you will, like your predecessors, shoe Mr. Plenkovic as you did to Jadranka Kosor, Evey Sanader or Tomislav Karamark.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58057	Let's go to the next line, dear colleague Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58058	My colleague Bernardic has no doubt that Agrokor is the most escalating example of so-called The crowns of capitalism, cousin, partner, politically privileged capitalism that pushed Croatia is now quite clear in the plight of the permanent crisis, hopelessness, stagnation. This type of capitalism is, in fact, the free market and the disabling real freedom of entrepreneurship. And instead of sobering us up and recruiting all the political forces to break up with this likeness of the 1990s HDZ policy, their model of conversion and privatisation of the current model of saving Agrokor seems like a new wind in the back of that chronic capitalism. I ask you as the leader of the main opposition party are you aware that you urgently need to offer a new paradigm of Croatia's development, a development model that will end up with chronic capitalism and finally create the conditions to live freely in this country, operate freely, that there is freedom of entrepreneurship and that they will not be privileged just because they are politically similar, foreigners are close or that they have ties in government. Are you aware of the opposition's responsibility to offer this new model and to finally consider it that the existing ruling majority does not have the power to finally present it to this public as a new development perspective for society.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58059	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58060	Thank you. As if you've thrown me Mr. Beus, that our program, the SDP program is Croatia for everything not just for some, not just for the chosen, not just for friends where every child, regardless of whether his parents are working on a minimumer or have a salary of 20 or 30000 kuna, will have equal availability to the education system. This is something that we do not have in Croatia and what we do not have, where the laws will apply equally to everyone, and for example, our Slavonian producers, small producers, country producers, potato producers, other Croatian farmers in Croatia will suffer because they have not either forgotten or missed their tax pay 200 or 300 kuna, close the store, close the shop. While others who are allowed to have a connection with the Authority, a link with the Tax Administration, a link with certain institutions will be resolved and nothing will happen to anyone. It will enable them not to have to come, to ride in fairies, to continue to go with helicopters to sea. It's two Croatians. And that's where you're right. It's two worlds we've just got to disable. So, our responsibility is to make Croatia as clear as this is now what is revealed on the Agrokor case never happens again. That's why I invited the ruling to discuss Croatia's future for Christmas. That conversation never happened. And you know why? Because they don't care, because they don't care about the future of Croatia, about jobs, about people in Croatia. If I were them, I'd be the one to initiate it. Not only would I respond to the conversation, but I would have initiated it. So we need to agree on the key five strategic things we want to do in our country. When it comes to education, when it comes to social security, when it comes to the health system, pension system, openness, security, work and employment, these are key topics. From that conversation zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58061	Okay. We've only got one more, there's one question. We still have five replicas. So Lackovic, Djakic, Šuker, Misic, Sincic. I hope I've managed to catch up with everyone, and I haven't dropped anyone, so please, here we go with colleague Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58062	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bernardić, I would a little bit simply simplify this request for government recall, so the government is infecting Agrokor's primary case by adopting the Lex Agrokor Act and then in this procedure the special administration with the Knighthead Fund which has acquired shares and which now holds approximately 18 claims available. What you said, the fact that 30% of the value of this fund, the bonds on the free market, that information would be very much interested in me, and based on it, I would be able to assess whether the criminal application that Mr. Todorovic filed against Vice President Dalic and Mr. Ramljak was indeed justified or not. But I can't be interested in that data whether you have that information whether Knighthead originally acquired shares by buying on the free market or simply uniting others, those who sought because we know that he could report and offer money only to the extent that he had not been taken over and wanted to offer other creditors. These are very serious charges for the release of privileged information and these are serious crimes and no matter who it is, whether from the Government or Mr. Ramljak should be held accountable if this has happened. But we have the judiciary that we have, you see how much all the MPs here are psychic today, so you too, but we simply haven't managed to be psychic in the Sanader case where we got Mr. Sanader and Mr. Todorovic has escaped, he's had enough time, and if you think of the only 150 MPs here in the Parliament, I've asked if there's an activation of Lex Agrokor to temporarily freeze his private property through a breakthrough of legal personality as the majority owner, it's not gone away. And now he would be in Croatia. [[Intruder President: Thank you, thank you fellow Lackovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58063	My colleague Bernardic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58064	... which you actually answered, i.e. We've opened up a whole series of questions that we haven't even gotten an answer to today. [[Specially enabled.]] And that is why we have not only called off the call, but we have also asked these questions in the government's motion for impeachment. So who's supposed to answer that? A commissioner appointed by the government. What we know, we know from publicly available data that the bond price at the moment was 30%. That's clear, you can see that. We know Mr. Ramljak lied and said that this fund was allegedly listed on the stock market. He wasn't perfect later. We know he said a lot of things later, that he didn't find himself, so he ended up with the fund representatives. That's all the information that's suspicious information about which there's been no denial. We also know how much the counselors pay. That's the data they brought themselves. But what we don't know, we don't know any restructuring plan, we don't know any plan to save jobs, we don't know where it's going except Agrokor's got a new job and he's put himself on extra weight and he's got into the religious council of those who haven't participated in the debt before. It's a fact, so it's a fact, it's publicly available. Yes, and therefore the responsible opposition, responsible politicians in Croatia are asking questions, opening questions they have not received answers to. When you don't get answers to suspicions in the process, when you don't get answers to all these controversial things, then the question is, what's behind the hill is right. And our responsibility is to leave this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58065	Let's move on, dear colleague Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58066	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Bernardic, in your submission and explanation of him for the matter of trust, you spoke to the government about suspicions, fears, concerns, and you turned it into heavy and monstrous charges of crime, criminal acts, withdrawal of money. And you even called it high treason and treason of national interest. And that's what's really inappropriate and that in this submission through your 11 questions you absolutely didn't write, but in your exposé you performed so awfully, insulting and disdainful and you stood up as if you were president of the council and that it was decided that what you said. But you often return to counselors. And it seems to me like really these counselors are a thorn in the eye and they're very tickling you and you're probably only worried about one of them. One of them, in the light of your competition, which I could and should probably replace you at the position of the president of the SDP because you are not credible in your position.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58067	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58068	Your structures are funny to me, and they are unfortunately consistent with what you're saying and propagating. And in a country from which it is possible that because of the lack of care, relations with institutions, relations with the Parliament, relations with the Assembly's Investigative Commission, one scientist, the prominent Mr. Djikic, not Mr. Djikic, but Mr. Djikic, I am not surprised at all. And I actually have to express one regret that you, besides healthy eyes, don't see what this is all about. Our task is to warn of any failures, suspicious actions and questions that we have not received an answer to. That's what this is about. And you won't have me with any structures, from counselling places to SDP trying to convince me of something else because that's when I tell you as if Ramljak, I don't know how to take over HDZ, so that's a funny story.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58069	Let's move on, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58070	Thank you very much. My colleague Bernardić, I will talk about specific things, I hope your answer will be as well, because our communication over the past years in the Parliament has been at that level. So listening to you talk about bonds without cover and when you talk about market regulators, one logical question has been raised for me that you will then be able to determine when the financial breakdown of Agrokora began. And then there would be the fact that at the time another political option was acting in power in Croatia, that someone had changed in 2012. The HANFA Act. And that's when you were warned from this pay phone that you weren't destroying an institution, that I wasn't practically going to use the word to keep it from being rude. And what happened happened. The government, meanwhile, adopted two HANFA reports. A colleague of Bernardić from 2012 to 2015 Agrokor is in debt for 2 billion and 100 million euros. From 2012-2015, it was a bond expansion. It's facts, and you can't move a period here or there from that. So that's one thing. Also, given your exposure, I expected you to give today's answer who made the decision on roll-up credit? Did the Council of Prophets bring it? And the other thing that's very important, if you're proposing something, then we should say, whether the bank, according to existing regulations, can lend credit to a company that is bankrupt and under what conditions and how. And the third thing, the difference between a pre-fashion deal and this is that the pre-fashion deal, the small suppliers all smoked everything, and here the small suppliers were paid everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58071	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58072	We have just proposed changes that went towards protecting small suppliers and fresh money that can be a priority on demand. That's what you forget. And don't turn your focus on the public with a big deal. So that's what we suggested, very clearly, very openly, about that there are records, about that there are all of them. Another thing, I'll remind you. You were Minister of Finance when the Capital Market Act was passed. Then your secretary of state was Mr. Zdravko Maric. I know, I happen to be sitting here in Parliament and I know you didn't pass a special factoring law at the time, and I know that's when you missed doing it. And the period you're talking about has been very clear since 2015-2017, the biggest responsibility of Agrokor for which you've confirmed it is the period during which your current finance minister was the director of Agrokor. And that's the point, he was your secretary of state, that's the point, he's not here today, probably for a reason, and don't deceive the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58073	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, fellow Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58074	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Bernardić, we have achieved Wait a minute, Article 238 [[Intruder President: What is the article, article please?]] Bero, it's an honor. [[/Intruder President: Please don't yell from the bench, I said it myself, but don't shout for no reason. Here you go.]] So, you violated article 238, and you were false. [[/Stupid president: colleague Shucker. Here you go.]] You know exactly what you've changed with the HANFA Act. You know well that after that, the HANFA's faulty solution is based on what certain actions have been made in Agrokor, and you can't get away from it, you can never wash yourself off. And you have a solution. And that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58075	Comrade Shuker, much has been said today in debates, which is probably very incorrect, so we didn't ask for damage to the Rules of Procedure, because there are discussions, they are who they are. So, yeah. All right. Here's my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58076	Article 238 has been injured. Also, what you just said, the amendments to the HANFA Act, I didn't even talk about it. So you put words in my mouth. I was talking about the period of duty of Agrokor at the time when the Secretary of State, while you were the Minister of Finance, was the Director of Agrokor, that's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58077	Okay, okay, we won't do it anymore, through the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, please, we're moving on with the debate, the 40th replica, the esteemed fellow Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58078	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Bernardich, you're an older politician than I am. You're longer in politics than I am, I congratulate you and you're a young man and I'm glad you're advanced, but I wasn't in politics, I was in the economy, I'm much older in the economy. I'm 40 years old and more of an intern. What's the problem? It's funny for me to watch this when here in this House today is about problems. This is where the amnesia came in 25 years ago. ... is something that should have been solved long ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this wouldn't be what it is today. And I'm the victim in some way and here, my friend kicked me out of a party, which I've been all over for 1 year and I'm not sure I'm good because I don't think he thinks. Why don't I think so? I've given my support to this government for what we're destroying is not good for economics, for economics, I know as a businessman, God forbid Agrokor collapsed and went bankrupt. If it were early elections, I would ask you today what the Croatian state would look like. In a very, very difficult situation. Better because you've never worked and you don't know, sir. ... I have experience and you have nothing. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58079	Comrade Djujic, what is it? So what kind of conversation is that? I'm sorry, you're being warned by your colleague, Djujic, about this behavior. ... So he didn't mention you, I don't know why you're being... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] stop throwing yourself out of place and cover up to argue with me because you'll get a second warning... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You want another warning? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, it's said a lot of hard words and on your part... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Maybe you don't belong to the SDP Club. We'll see when the time comes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, fellow Muscle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58080	Dear President, fellow Members, I've been hiring 20 people and 25 years I've been paying taxes to this country, and I'm asking everyone around what 40 billion unpaid taxes are to this country. My father wasn't even... He didn't raise me, he raised me in an honest way, to work and make money, and to make this people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And not you who came from the former communist party, and today you rule this country, and that's why we have what we have. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58081	Well, what's this? So what's in your SDP, so just calm down. So you all the time, just a little bit please, so you're making all the hard accusations at the expense of others, and now that the charges go to your expense, you're all jumping on your feet, so just calm down, calm down, please. It's over, fellow Muscle, you're done. [[Intruder Mišić: Allow me.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Intruding Misic: So you're taking away my time]] Here you go, Comrade Maras. I'll give you another warning, he won't be able to participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58082	Mr. President, I'll warn you again, 237, you should have stopped it, Mr. Misic insulted the MPs by a single argument that cannot stand anywhere. He generalized and insulted a number of MPs, if you'd interrupted him, it wouldn't have come to this. He complained that he was kicked out of the party, so I recommend he go to HNS, which is what they're receiving there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58083	Comrade Maras, you are now doing what you are saying to me, so you are accusing someone, accusing some of them, groupingly doing it, they are also feeling probably offended as you feel on the words of your fellow muscles. So, we have a certain level that we tolerate in these discussions, and I've called for people not to be offended individually, but when it comes to phenomena, then we let it go because this is how every debate would have to be interrupted because everyone hurts someone, so please. But don't yell, I'm trying as hard as I can to make the debate more or less fair. Here you go, colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58084	I'm going to have to, I'm not going in Mr. Muscle on your political path, if you were, in which party, who kicked you out, but I'm going to have to agree with one of you, the fact is that there's a collective amnesia here for the last 25 years. I think I made it very clear in my debate that there is and no one should be deprived of responsibility. For example. Plenkovic is not responsible for the situation of privatisation and conversion in the '90s but is responsible for this new partner that is happening right now because he directly stood behind a law that allowed the discrimination of the credentials and which allowed the treatment that is happening now, that is what I was talking about here. So it's clear that HDZ was responsible in the '90s for the process, it's clear, I don't think anyone should draw it, but here we're talking about the moment that's been going on in the last year. And now it's quite clear why it was avoided to talk to the opposition, why it was avoided to consult with opposition representatives, why it avoided a broad public national consensus on such an important issue and I think it would be good if there were a national consensus, so we were holding hands, you didn't want it, it's clear that you didn't want it because you were doing things behind the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58085	And the last replica of the presentation of counterpart Bernardic, dear colleague Sincic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58086	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. This is why we are now discussing Agrokor in 2017, is it because some fair HDZ government came and began to investigate everything that has been reported for decades? No, I don't. Banks told Todorovic no more loans, expenses existed, credit revenues lost, cars went downhill. And now those who have worshipped him for decades now suddenly sued him and persecuted him, and where have they been all this time? And one. Government, and 2. Government and 3. Government and 10th and 11th and 12th and 13th and now 14. The government tolerated everything that was happening, both the credits and the bonds and the purchase of companies and the repression of suppliers. They tolerated all these loans and HBOR and HPB and the Adriatic Bank and all the whistles of whistles and oppressed workers and Konzum and other parts of the concerts, screaming out of Agrokor all these years of all these irregularities and from the politics of the executive authority only violence. Here were the two governments of the SDP, myself personally that I was a representative through any year I couldn't, and not even with my colleagues from the Living Wall one day be in the ruling majority or authority that tolerated such irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58087	We are now moving on to the presentation of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic on behalf of the government, this exhibition takes 15 minutes. Before the Prime Ministers start speaking, this time we're going to do one new thing, so when we catch the replicas, we're going to put the replicas on the screen so you know about who's saying you can plan your time. You can't give a replica before the debate begins. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58088	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. Let me say in these first ten minutes the key aspects of the government's activities regarding the crisis in the largest Croatian company, then I will ask the Deputy Prime Minister to use the remaining minutes for a few more clarifications. So, first of all, I want to point out what we adopted yesterday at the government in our obvious, which is that the government completely rejects all the proposals for the opposition to raise the question of trust which the Government has already mentioned in this previous debate, in a rather unusual way and in a very strange Croatian language, I said that and the other day it seemed as if you had translated some text not necessarily from English. The government has performed coherently, responsibly, legally, in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the principle of proportionality. The crisis in Agrokor, there are no dilemmas, is one of the deepest crises in economic terms that Croatia has faced from its independence to today. It escalated early this year the downgrading of the company's credit rating, the warning of accounting irregularities, the fall in stock prices, the launch of the first commission-based performance, the blocked accounts of Agrokor companies, the interruption of the supply of goods, the emptying of the country's largest trading chain and the inequitableness of the companies. The account block and its key companies amounted to 3 billion kuna. This undoubtedly says that the entire system was under threat of uncontrollable bankruptcy. The uncontrollable bankruptcy, in line with the positive Croatian legislation at the time, would mean the disappearance of 28 thousand company jobs, would mean the endangerment of nearly 30,000 additional jobs in societies in the context of concerts in neighbouring countries. Given the dominant position of concerts in the Croatian economy and the market, this would reflect more than 2300 suppliers with another 150 thousand people, i.e. employee. So before us was the crisis of economic and financial tsunamis such as Croatia has not yet experienced or imagined at all. The revised financial reports whose opportunity you had to see a few weeks ago, carried out by one of the 4 key world audit houses Price Waterhouse Cooper showed the real state of books and financial companies. The Commission therefore considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in The government has chosen an option which, in our deep conviction, was the only possible, responsible option based on the comparative practice of other countries that faced similar problems, which is that we have approached the adoption of the Law on Extraordinary Society Administration of Systemic importance in the Republic of Croatia, where we have proposed by an extraordinary Commissioner appointed by the Trade Court, stopped a process which would necessarily, necessarily, I am now saying, resulting in huge costs for the state budget, you know that the Agency for Workers' Markets is being financed from the budget, in order for all salaries to be minimum for those who remain unemployed to be burdened by the state budget. If in this process that is now being led now for 7 months we had come to the position that the state budget, this whole restructuring process didn't cost a single kuna. And this is what the Croatian public must know despite all these efforts and the lamentations of the proposings to turn everything around in a way that the state budget, that taxpayers will pay some great damage, some large, some large amount of money and whose liability in terms of debts is borne by someone else. And that should be clear to everyone. In the process of extraordinary administration, the role of the religious council, the interim religious council, is particularly important. Since it must have a key ability to make decisions in such a restructuring process and such an extraordinary administration process. It's more than normal and more than usual and more than necessary. I would also like to remind you that no illusion of state interventionism or the nationalisation you suggest is out of the question and does not stand. The provisions of the law itself have been activated at the request of the written owner and former management of Agrokor. That element must be kept in mind. If it hadn't been for the activation of this law, it wouldn't have been possible. We acted according to the principle of proportionality in accordance with the Croatian Constitution because we estimated that the general well-being of the Croatian state, Croatian people and employees of the economy was the most important and therefore we were guided. The alternative you're talking about and what you're suggesting would mean the opening of a bankruptcy procedure over more than 70 companies, in front of several commercial courts in Croatia, would cause a wave of bankruptcy, total chaos in the Croatian economy, and the consequences would certainly be such that Croatia would not achieve the best tourist season, so that we wouldn't have over 11 billion euros in income, 100 million overnights that were exceeded 2 weeks ago. We would not have had all these economic effects that she gave you in her review yesterday and the European Commission in the context of the European Semester on projection data, their projections for economic growth in 2017. All of this would not have been if the government had not passed this law and had not been responsible for the extraordinary administration process. Let's say a few words about the key activities of the extraordinary administration. If it were the way you wanted it, then small suppliers, and that's all those whose annual income is about 5 million kunas wouldn't get their old debts back. All those old debts were paid in full. And I therefore appeal to you as the protector of Croatian farmers, especially small ones, to ask them what they think they are satisfied with what has been done so far, would they be pleased to have gone with your script. To ask then and medium-sized suppliers who have managed to settle a large part of the old debt through this process, who are satisfied with the plans, the settlement of the border debt and who expect this process of restructuring to continue and that they also have enough time to prepare themselves for their own reconstruction and consolidation of business. All of this has been made possible in this process that has been going on for the past few months. Also, the fact that under such difficult circumstances, the company's financial situation allows for a new loan, which has brought the necessary liquidity, which enables the company to work and operate, to pay salaries, to prepare for the day-to-day restructuring and settlement phase, one plus. To give, money under such circumstances, go a little with key people in the Croatian Employers' Association, so ask them if some of them were willing to give fresh company money under such circumstances. Many have made it very clear that no. Those who gave money should be very clear to the Croatian public all were creditors or bondholders before the extraordinary administration. So that's the key. It's a very important aspect you didn't mention in your presentation. Therefore, the agreement that was discussed and which seems to me to be a particular cause, the whole initiative is and indeed unsatisfactory written for this trust initiative was the best solution that could be organised at that time to secure new funding. When it comes to the transparency of governance and information, I have already told you several times that the extraordinary administration submits every month a report to the Ministry of Economy, in accordance with the law on all activities relating to the process. The government observed the full report in early July, after the first 100 days, the information the extraordinary administration itself publishes in the media is very thorough and very detailed. And as for the restructuring and business plans, I think about them, more than enough this week, because you obviously didn't follow, as you haven't followed until now, what the extraordinary administration has done, and what is clearly presented, how to consolidate business and ensure its effectiveness in the future. Finally, I think that these decisions, which we received from the London Court yesterday, about how the law was adopted, were confirmed that the way the government set out to address this crisis in order to address the general Croatian interest, not one man, not one company, was an appropriate path and the right way. We will endure it, it provides us with two basic goals. We have prevented what no one mentions anymore, that could have happened, and secondly, provided both jobs and the functioning of the company in the future. In this way, we have achieved what the responsible and serious government should do and what I particularly appreciate, regardless of your illusions, in the polls, on your desire to raise your popularity, Croatian people see it. People will know how to distinguish serious politics from irresponsible politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58089	I now ask the Deputy Prime Minister, Martin Dalic, to continue the exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58090	Thank you very much. And that's why everything that's going on in this process is multilayered. It's about human destiny, the fates of 27000 employees and their families, who are currently working on the Law on the procedure of the extraordinary administration today, and in the week before Easter, they were faced with non-payment of salaries. Today they receive salaries, pay their loans, school their children, and function normally. It is, of course, also about the fates of a particularly sensitive category of workers, workers who have 5-8 years to retire who are extremely difficult to employ. And what do you think is going through what you want, where, when and how would these many workers find a job after they lose it in Agror? This is, of course, also about the fate of small suppliers, about the OPGs of Slavonia, about the OPGs in the Neretva Valley on the multitude of small companies, more than 2500 who were paid precisely because the Croatian government proposed and the Parliament passed the Act on the procedure of extraordinary administration. Because in bankruptcy, it wasn't even possible to do that in pre-fashion. Under the bankruptcy law, suppliers cannot be charged first and no one can be charged before the bankruptcy is completed. It's known how and how these little suppliers ended up in pre-war deals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58091	My colleague, I'm sorry to interrupt. There's been an error there at the traffic light. You've got another minute and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58092	All right. It is also a matter of course of respect for the fundamental principles of the modern economy. Agrokor is in pre-war proceedings. If we needed it to confirm the court in England, then he confirmed it. And that means that the water process is managed by suppliers. And they guide it, forgive the believers. In this process, they have the main word, all those who borrowed the money before 10.4. And of course it is here and the taxpayers. The state, it doesn't control the religious council, because the state has no demand. The total demand for the state is 0.03% of the 57 billion debts of Agrokor. The state gave the platform, it did what it had to do, it gave the framework for creditors to reach a settlement, for the benefit of business for the benefit of jobs and, of course, for the benefit of finding a payment for their huge debts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58093	Thanks, you made our job easier, because there was a traffic light error, but you were in 15 minutes. Here we go with the replicas, I don't have the exact number yet, since they're signing in, but the same thing is close to 40, probably more. So he's waiting for us, quite a long time now to discuss the replicas. The first was Sasa Djujic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58094	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, you spoke at the beginning of your presentation on the reasons SDP stated, as the reasons for your government's impeachment and why the government should leave. So you said that they were not convincing, that they were not well written, that they were not well engaged, that they were not in Croatian. Now you see, the situation in Agrokor is just one of the reasons why your government has to go and why your government isn't good. And now let me briefly, I won't go into all the reasons now, because there are many of them, but let me read you a quote that, from today's day that best says why your government should go. Croatia is threatened with eviction and extinction. In the past few years, we've lost more people than we have in defense of the country. Croatia comes out of itself. The largest negative balance has Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja County. In Croatia there is an emergency. The draft budget for next year should be reconsidered in order to prevent demographic extinction. Partial measures are not sufficient, etc., etc. This is what RS President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic said at the Vukovar-Srijem County ceremony this morning. When the President of the Republic in this country says it's a state of emergency, I believe it's even an emergency. Even she read you. More than 70% of citizens who do not believe you and the direction Croatia is going are sending you a message. You don't have to respect opposition proposals now, listen to your president, listen to Croatian citizens, and the best thing for this country is to leave and make this government stand down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58095	Replication response, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58096	Thank you, dear colleague Djujic. Well, like this whole debate, so I think this first one, as many as are now, has shown the meaning and purpose of the whole debate, the whole point if you want an investigative committee. So the SDP framework that is probably someone who's been in Mr Bernardic's ear the whole time, so I've never heard anyone use the word spin so many times today, maybe even the English don't use it as much as you've used it all your life, but obviously you're under the impression that you're people who train you, who suggest what to say, and you're not the only group that's been under spin doctors all this time because it's so obvious that it's almost becoming funny. So your framework, the whole point of this, is that the public must know, so the SDP's goal is that this whole debate shows a sign of equality between HDZ from the '90s until today and equality with Mr. Todorovic and Agrokora, that's your whole meaning, and that's legitimate, that's okay. But people need to know that. So your goal is not jobs, not economics, not preserving the stability of the Croatian economy, your goal is to label HDZ. And that's what you just repeated. As for the President of the Republic's speech, she expresses her position. It seems to me that a general climate that wants to be created by perpetuation, by multiplying all possible negative information, comes into my court to its culmination today. Today is the day, today shake out everything you want. At the same time, read the Commission's report on the European Semester, study it a little bit. See how they assessed the risks that the crisis in Agrokor could pose for Croatia and what it actually has and then reason where we are and thanks to who.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58097	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm asking you to hold on for two minutes, there'll be plenty of opportunities and we'll be able to answer everything. Next up, Gordan Maras. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58098	Thank you very much, Mr. Plenkovic. I suggest we start with a little less boasting and talk a little more about real problems. By coming here and these days de facto, you have already lost no matter how the vote ends in the Croatian Parliament. For what? Because of what I suppose is more important than 77% of Croatian citizens, the president of the Republic about your work and what the government has done than the Club of Representatives of the HNS. That's 100 times more important to me. So I'd like to tell you, before the vote, you lost because citizens don't trust you. On the other hand, please, that we are not just talking about the past, you have given Knighthead, Americans to manage the most valuable Croatian company and to manage employees and what will happen there with very little influence now more than anyone else. What I'm interested in and what I'm asking you to do here is to tell the Croatian citizens that in the coming years, no job will be lost and that companies in the Agrokora system will not be sold around the world who knows who by these scavenger, vulture funds are going to be sold to. Let's talk about the future. Put your signature here, your resignation if you want with these guarantees that no job will be lost and that companies will not be sold to who knows who. Let's go, Mr. Plenkovic, about the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58099	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58100	Mr. Maras, you showed yourself two days ago, all the width, knowledge, specificity, European orientation, belief in reform, right direction, style, content. You've been on such a level that here I am for two days still unable to come to myself from the quality of your step-up, about the topics we had the opportunity to discuss on Wednesday afternoon. I will remember this as a great contribution to the legacy of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Assembly and I will always be happy to tell my children when they are a little bigger that he was a wonderful representative who has always said so substancefully that I was delighted how much he needed to prepare for such performances. And what do you think, Mr. Maras, if we had listened to these alleged suggestions of yours seven months ago about which the President of the Party spoke about where the company and society within it would be today, where jobs would be, where jobs would be, jobs of suppliers, in all those connected to the system? Where would they be today? So you have the nerve to ask me to sign something you suggest in the future. If it had been according to what you wanted today, we would have had an economic downturn and a disaster in Croatia inexplicable proportions. And instead of saying you had the courage and courage to make that move as suppliers say, as the OPGs say, as all rational and reasonable people who understand the subject a little bit and do not approach it politically. And what do you think the government or the Ministry of Economy when it has the opportunity to communicate with the extraordinary administration is saying besides that we want companies to function and to preserve jobs. What other goal do you think the Government of the Republic of Croatia can and should have? What do you think we want? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58101	Thank you. Here's a colleague, Maras. He was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58102	Thank you very much. Article 238, I think you, Mr. President, have recognized Mr. Plenkovic's attempt to degrade me personally in his opening speech. I'd ask you not to let him do it anymore, because if he's stressed, I'm willing to sit down and talk to him and make it easy for a man. But I won't let you get me here I was offended by this whole exposé that ended up talking to his children about me in the future. [[Intruder President: You must tell me what offended you from the president's statement?]] I won't tell my children about him at all in the future when they grow up, I don't need to, and I don't believe he'll leave any trace of it that I would tell my children anything about him in the future. And I ask you to protect the MPs from this defamation of Mr Plenkovic, who once again did not answer the key question. whether to guarantee all the jobs in Agrokor with their resignation [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] in the years to come. [[Adversity President: Comrade Maras is certain.]] That's what we wanted to hear from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58103	You've been out of time for 10 seconds. So I let you talk. You're not going to get 20 because you're going to get your first warning, and then you're going to get another one. So talking about you to your kids, I don't know why it would offend you. You can be proud that the children of someone else will learn about you. I think it's very difficult to classify under... And listen, I'm not here to read metaphors and parabolas. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] I listen to what is said. ... Thank you very much, dear colleague Maras. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Let's move on. Now it's your turn. ... Thanks for the compliment. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58104	Thank you very much. Well, dear Mr. Plenkovic, you spoke to the Prime Minister at the very end about credibility, you spoke of responsible policy, so I want to ask you, you think it's responsible and credible that there are ministers in your government who were very high in Agrokor and they didn't know anything about it. I guess that's the amnesia you were talking about the other day, which is eclectic to use the Croatian word that you like to tell it to the eclant conflicts of interest, which start the trade wars, which have the rightful verdicts, which are shared by acquaintances, who carry strangely non-transparent competitions, who forge their war routes, who at least try to pay for the holidays to the directors of Croatian Waters, who staff the brothers, who send into the debate laws that did not pass the government, who wear uniforms and civilians are officials, etc. etc. etc. It's two minutes too short for me to count it all for you. And now you can tell me how many more noodles I have to eat. You can tell me about the hybrid wars, you can tell me you're not impressed. But I'll tell you, Prime Minister, I'm not impressed. And 77% of Croatian citizens are not impressed with this way of leading the government, leading Croatia and leading the crisis in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58105	Replication response, nothing. Then let's move on. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Stephen Kovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58106	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I'd like to believe that what you're saying about Agrokor is so that you're really working on good intentions, but speaking to citizens on the road, I'm afraid it's all a play, one farce for the citizens. Because people say if Mr. Todorovic will end up in front of our face of justice and in prison that half of the ruling parties will unfortunately keep him company in Remetinco. I'd like as Mr. Shucker said I'll ask a specific example, so I'd like a concrete answer from you. How do you comment on the fact that in the Assembly Committee for Agrokor there is a person who, as a fellow parliamentary representative, is currently the head of a municipality, a municipality on our island that has forgiven Konzum 800,000 kunas of communal contributions to a company like Konzum, which is really embarrassing. Because you know how cities function and municipalities forgive that this same colleague who is in that committee of inquiry was the president of your party, the municipal organization, and that your colleagues would give their coffee shop inside that consum. Look at the wonders, but just to give my colleagues a coffee shop just to forgive Mr. Todorov, 800 thousand kuna, so why don't we do it to other firms? Please give a concrete answer and I'm afraid it's just doing such things, and this is just a drop of sea in the affairs your party had with Agrokor and Mr. Todorovic I'm going to tell you that folk at the end "the crow's neck is not digging". This is a concrete example. So I'm not going to name a fellow parliamentary representative, sit here, he's currently the head of the council in the Bureau of Investigation is for Agrokor. [[Adversity President: You can give an example that he is prime minister.]] You want a name? I think I've said enough. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] I don't want to name a colleague so I don't turn out to be insulting my fellow councilman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58107	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58108	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I really don't know who you mean, or what case it's about, so I can't give you a concrete answer, and you've had a chance to be explicit. I don't know. What bothers me, however, is the ease with which you are able to say the words and accuse fellow Members of the Parliament when you say that people will end up in prison. Based on what are you saying? Where did you get the right to do that? So I've been listening for months to the head of your party. The man finished physics. I know he hasn't studied law, but at least some minimum basics, the minimum minimum minimum basics. Here's my fellow student, Milenić, to have at least one coffee drink with the head of your party but not only with him. I've never seen more reckless statements from people in politics than you're telling them at this time. So, you don't know the basics, you don't know anything about the trio of power. You don't know why the legislative authority, the executive authority, the judicial authority, is the authority of the DORH, which is the jurisdiction of the police. These are concepts that you obviously haven't absorbed yet. I'd ask you for your good, it doesn't matter to me, you can answer whatever you want in the end line everything goes on your continent. But for the sake of public discourse, don't say what doesn't stand and don't get into qualifications that aren't good. They are not good for political culture in Croatia and try to make that distinction between political responsibility for you as an opposition, your role in what you call a political judge and what you say and may have unwanted consequences for wider social processes. Be careful there. I give you this well-intentioned advice, and I can see that your colleagues who are not so exposed to the same ease amount to such qualifications.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58109	Next up, she's a respected colleague of Mrak-Taritash's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58110	President of the Croatian Parliament, I have a way of getting involved in this discussion, I have enough big children, so I won't have to tell them anything, they see for themselves. But what I'd like to ask the Prime Minister and I'd like to get an answer. So, historically we know how Agrokor came into existence, we can talk about chronic capitalism or related capitalism, we can talk about Agrokor being born as a child of HDZ. It's an Agrokor Ivica Todorovic. This Agrokor Ivica Todorovic ceased to exist at the time when Lex Agrokor was activated and when there was a new Agrokor, Agrokor Ante Ramljak, Agrokor run by a civil servant, an official who corresponds to this government, to this state. And likewise, the government decided to put its fate and fate into Mr. Ante Ramljak's hands and depend on it. I'm convinced of one fact that the government will last about as long as the Lex Agrokor. But responsibility for Ante Ramljak and his actions will be the responsibility of this government, and will be read in commitments and in the funds that we will take from the state budget to blame the decisions and wrong assessments of Mr Ante Ramljak will be paid by the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58111	Is there an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58112	Dear MPs, Mrak-Taritash, the government did not tie its fate to any process other than the majority political will of voters in last year's elections, only for that. And that's the only thing we're responsible for in our activities and what we're going to be guided by. As for the character of the law, maybe we should say that one more time, we could not do anything, say private company, capitalism, the private market, let everything go and let the water take away everything that is before us. We'll watch, we'll sit there across the street and watch the companies fall behind each other like dominoes. And we'll say private risk, I'm sorry. You worked at the wrong company. We could reach for what this requirement for a vote of confidence insinuated for nationalization, and then we would take on our backs, indosing on our backs, indosing on both the backs of the budget and the government's debtors all the obligations created by the private company. We didn't do that. We didn't do that. We could've been looking for ways to find some new money in a creative way. We didn't do it either. We did the only thing possible, we created a legal framework where the company itself initiated law activation, the government proposed a court, the Trade Court appointed a commissioner in a process in which creditors play a key role. And I'm sorry that you constantly twist the facts, the fundamental settings of the law, its framework and its ratio. Ratio was just like that to prevent damage to society, and to achieve the goal of maintaining jobs and the work of companies, and we are working on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58113	Thank you. Third replica, i.e. the replica Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58114	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. Well, I have to say I cheer for every Croatian government, I literally cheer and I think I want it well. Because when the Croatian government is doing well, then it's good for all of us, and I love this Croatian state, I love people, I love my family and my three children, and I think they should live in one better Croatia. So in order to have this better Croatia, I think we need reforms in this Croatia, and I am asking you, I don't know if you listened yesterday to NOVA TV was the NoVA TV Dnevnik where Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Dalic visited, and at the question of the head of the reforms in Croatia, she said that the reform of Agrokor. So now I really need to ask myself if this reform in Croatia is really needed in the reform of Agrokor. If so, then we can say that Croatia is literally going in the wrong direction and that those 80% of citizens who say we are going in the wrong direction are right. Because if it's the Croatian reform, the reform of Agrokor and that's what's like to spoil something, then let's make it right, it's not a reform. I think Croatia needs reform of education, health system, public administration. It is necessary to take care of Croatian national interests, water, Croatian highways, INA and here I would like your comment on whether it really is a reform – the reform of Agrokor or some other reform that this Croatian state needs to make us all better together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58115	The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58116	Thank you very much, Mr. Prelec. Well, I think the Deputy Prime Minister has very well defined this whole process and everything that's going on with Agrocora is a huge, huge big reform. I also said that at the beginning of this process in April and in dialogue with many social partners, with employers. This law and everything that will eventually be implemented and changes in the way of business will have a transformative effect on the relationship between business entities in Croatia. I think that everyone who has been involved in business, tied up, worked with a concert for years or in some similar situations knows very well when I say why this will have a transformation effect, why this will have a transformation effect on payment deadlines. Why won't smaller companies come into a position of dependence on a large company like it was before. Well, that's your reform. It's a major reform for you. When you talk to people in the business sector who are much better than you and I know what's going on, much better. I've learned a lot in the last year. I knew something, but I didn't know those details, and then I see with what firm belief that this is a good direction they think that everything that's been done in this regard is a huge reform. We didn't write it in the National Reform Program. Well, I didn't go to the polls last year, nor did the HDZ program say we're gonna have to deal with this big crisis. She came to our table one of the many topics that come, but we're dealing with her. With all good intentions and will, and I'm glad you say you're rooting for the Croatian government. Me too. I think that the fact that you recognize that we're doing everything we can for the greater good, if that's the message of this debate today, I'll be pleased. That's what I do, those are beliefs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58117	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear Ivan Willibor Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58118	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I'm afraid you haven't learned much from the Agrokor case in the last 30 years. So it's about a delay. As long as the loans flow and drip, the system sails and Croatia sails great as long as the loans drop. If one day the bank decides to close the pipe of obligations will remain, there are no new incomes and it stays between hammers and anvils and that is the bankruptcy of Croatia. What you've done with Lex Agrocor, you've made another delay. When the banks said no more loans, you were over-indebted to Todorov, you gave him another year, a year and a half of life that way. You're talking about an alternative here as we'd go bankrupt, that would be the end of everything and everything. I'll remind you that not every bankruptcy is the end, that there is bankruptcy with restructuring, not just bankruptcy with liquidation. What guarantee do you have and you can let us here that once the deadline of lex Agrokora passes, there will be no bankruptcy anyway. Why on October 4th of this year you have referred to the procedure of amending the bankruptcy law and introducing inside a huge new newspaper, which is the new borrowing of a creditor. Do you actually know that this is just a delay and that when the 15 months pass then there's still a bankruptcy waiting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58119	Thank you. Replication response, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58120	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Sincic, for your comment. We know very well what the point is, what the purpose of this law is, why it was passed, what its effects were, what was achieved with it and where we were going. We have repeatedly said that in this process of restructuring the company that was in such a situation because of its own business and over-indebtedness, a key role in its transformation process must be played by the credentials. And these credentials via facts are real owners. And now that you look at the grouping of creditors in the Temporary Religious Council, we can divide them into three basic groups, into small, medium-sized suppliers and financial creditors. Well, isn't it quite clear to you from your optics that this company's greatest restructuring burden will eventually be passed on by financial creditors. Do you think that such a choice of government that cares about citizens, who care about jobs, about employment, about social giving, about the standard of Croatian citizens logic, so who can say this openly seems to me to represent your party. I don't see you opposed it when I rationally look at what the meaning of your action is, I think even if you could, with all the fences and criticisms you have even find some connection to the meaning of your action. I would even call it that. I think that's true. I don't know what's hurt in the sense of the Rules of Procedure, I'm telling you as an attitude, as a single grade following your work and what's happened so far. Ask small suppliers, ask the OPGs if they are satisfied with this process? Ask them that? I'd like you to hear it directly from them if you don't trust the government, you don't have to trust the government, but ask them. The goal in the future is to reach a settlement that will allow companies to function, to maintain jobs, and through the restructuring process and necessarily write down parts of the debt to enable the remaining part of the debt or to replace the holding share or to be paid back in the years ahead. There's no other logic, there's no other philosophy that could result in something else than what I'm saying. I think even with some rational approach you can understand why we chose this time. Liquidation would be the worst, it'd be quick, we'd have social unrest in the country, and we don't have them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58121	Are you insisting on your fellow Son? You're putting yourself in danger of getting a warning. I mean, you get that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58122	I'm aware of the danger. Article 238. Mr Plenkovic insults members of the Electoral Body of the Living Wall by insinuating that we want some chaos and violence in Croatia. That's absolutely not true. If this government of yours were worth anything, you'd be facing Todorovic before the banks wrote him off.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58123	No, that's not how I understood it. On the contrary, you can find something in this model that is part of your political philosophy. So I think you did this anyway to replicate and I'm giving you a warning. Let's move on. Now it's time for your esteemed colleague, Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58124	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. We here all the time listening especially from the Prime Minister that he has some kind of support for big little people first. However, the figures deny it. 77% of Croatian citizens do not support the direction the government is going. 64% of Croatian citizens no longer support intra-EU membership. This government is no longer supported by any relevant Croatian party other than some of the parties who have several votes in the parliament and who would not have gone to the polls on their own. Two members of the ruling coalition have already left the majority to this government. Your Deputy Prime Minister resigned. The president of the state no longer supports you. You don't even have her support anymore. All you have is one artificial, illegal, illegal unnatural majority consisting of one, two extra hands and the only real support you can count on is the support of a very small group of national faceless Brussels bureaucrats who sent you here and who are eager to return to your hands. I must tell you the truth, Mr. Plenkovic, because you live in one of your worlds. You don't have support or a representative from your club. I come here every day for 13 months and I hear in the halls and I feel what they're saying, thinking. They don't support you. You've come here, but you're not getting along, you're not offering solutions. Your government lives and this is just the consequence of everything you've done in a very modest 12 months. You've only been here 12 months, and you've turned everything against yourself. This is no interest in you, then. It's the essence of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58125	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58126	Dear comrade Bunjac, that is, Mr. Bunjac. I listened to you for the first time about a year ago and I wondered where you came from. And every time I listen to you, I think about how and from whom you can gain trust. I'm not worried about you. I'm more concerned about those who are able to give you confidence. That's what I'm worried about. That concerns me, and the level of performance you had two days ago, you belong to this famous alliance I was talking about two days ago. I consider one new dimension, one new level of action in the Croatian Parliament. And what you don't want to see, to recognize what you have homework as well as others absolutely everything defiled, to dramatize everything, to keep repeating the the thesis that is incorrect, untrue, that we all have to live together in the belief that what you see, what you're saying should be quite the only and complete truth. That's your thing. You can represent it, you can try to do it, you can't see the effects that we have on lawmaking and all these activities because it's today's topic. You don't need to see it, maybe you don't see it, maybe you don't understand it, maybe you haven't devoted enough time to reading relevant documents, reports, everything that says what happened. Read to yourself, here you who are constantly calling for this negative way in Europe, read the European Commission's report. Read these documents, read sentences and see how they characterized the handling and resolution of this crisis. We minimized the negative effects. If you don't see it right, you can represent it, that's it. But ask those who would be out of work today, those who would demand support from the state today, minimum wages. All that would be paid by taxpayers, so they didn't pay anything. Nothing!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58127	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58128	Dear President of the Parliament, Article 238 has been injured. So the Prime Minister insulted What? [[President: What? Insulted. I'm not offended.]] Prime Minister, the Prime Minister insulted the citizens. [[Intruder President: I am not the offended president of the Parliament.]] He said he was worried about those who voted for the Living Wall, that he was worried about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have moved 100,000 over the last two years, who have no right to give their children a better chance because there is no educational reform which was collected by electricity. [[/Intruder President: colleague Bernardić, please. I'm begging you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58129	So, I'm asking you. My colleague Bernardic, please! So, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure yourself. What you're doing has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Did you listen to the presentation of your colleagues? [[/Upadica Bernardić: Read Article 238, paragraph 5.]] That's right. [[Intruder Bernardić: Very careful.]] It can also be interpreted that he has offended the Prime Minister, so I have not responded. The same way the Prime Minister replied to him. So, I don't even know what your place is here and why you're here now. Well, I'm not insulting you at all. [[Intruder Bernardić: You can insult me.]] Comrade Bernardic, you've been warned. [[Invader Bernardić: You can press charges to me, you can send me to remote mail couriers who want to intimidate me, but you must not insult the people who have given confidence to any representative in this hall.]] No one will insult you. You do what you do, you think it's best and just keep going. Let's move on. The next is Honorable colleague Stephen Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58130	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Prime Minister, you mentioned in your presentation and the very circumstances of law-making. Namely, this law, unlike what we had, has one important point, which is what the Institute of the oldest debt has introduced. The institute allowed creditors to be found and private companies to be financed with private money. I repeat what I will say several times, no kuna citizens can give a single kuna to any private company, and all the contracts arising from this private company cannot and should not be above any law. What I do not see in this call for government recall and the main reason is that this law has allowed, if I understand correctly, the trading of privileged information. It's like he's legalized something illegal. I don't know what article. If anything illegal is the duty to report, for this law, for all other laws, for all other bodies and societies and persons in the Republic of Croatia. If the government had passed a law that we weren't in for, we thought it might be better than a lot of other laws that we're working on right now, but we're working on them and we have them now. People watch, creditors watch, investors watch, courts in other countries watch what happens here. Someone has been doing their defense for months, throwing hooks, people getting caught, and now we have what we have that the most important actor can't come before the institutions of this country, or before that commission, because we some have accepted his hooks because he threw around in thought and systematic terms. They look, and the solution of Agrokor is far from over. The court determines, there is a settlement before the court, the believers determine and we must be careful and it certainly doesn't matter what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58131	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58132	I'd like to thank counsel Curaj. Well, I'm glad to hear one voice of reason that. Why are you laughing? Do you think Col. Curaj said something bad that might affect unlike your interventions negatively on, say, Croatian bonds on financial markets? Who do you think contributes more to Croatia's well-being in terms of international financial institutions your action or its intervention? Come on, think of it as cold as that. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Think about it. It would be good for you to think about it and carefully renegotiate the weight of political words spoken by politicians to other processes that are not the subject of policy work. All that counts, all that counts, take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58133	Let's move on. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58134	Thank you. You told the Prime Minister you could stand by and watch the companies fail. Well, that sounds very hypocritical because it was your party that HDZ, who took thousands of Croatian companies to ruin and bankruptcy and then you looked calmly at the side of you never raised your voice. I'd like to remind you at this very moment that your very words have been heard by workers of the Viaduct who are not receiving salaries and who are in extreme uncertainty, but you don't care about them because they obviously don't matter to your government. But what I'm trying to tell you is that you didn't stop the bankruptcy. The bankruptcy will take place in 15 months. So that whole fama about you saving Agrokor is one big lie. In the end, it will again come to the sale of all the companies from the concert, that what is worth will continue to do, that what is not worth will not. That is, what would have happened would have happened if the bankruptcy had started at the very beginning. But what changes, that is, what you and your government have changed is the order of payments. So, first you put the vulture funds from America, they're in first place, then you put Ramljak with a salary of 117 thousand kuna and his camel advisors who also release millions, and at the same time the man who has the salary of 117 thousand kuna calls the believers, so the companies that delivered the goods to Agrokor to give up their claims of 70%. You haven't solved the issue of the regressive bonds, they'll have to be paid by companies or creditors, and in fact you've been working with that whole time I'd dare tell the mob. You're no savior, you're one of the saviors, and you're from that 1971 Papic movie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58135	Nothing. All right, let's move on. Dear colleague Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58136	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, in your opening speech today as well as in the light of our request, you stressed, among other things, that the government has put stability, economic development, social solidarity and politics in its programme for the 16-20 term of office as a fundamental goal, and I stress this, the policy of restoring confidence in the institutions. Unfortunately, everything that happens around Agrokor is particularly intransparency that concerns the very law makes it look like you're destroying trust in institutions and that's one of your government's big problems. In particular, this applies to two of your close associates, meaning Mr. Minister of Finance Marić, who was related to Agrokor in the Government and Mrs. Dalic and her relationship with Mr. Ramljak, and the non-transparentities related to the issue of writing legislation where even the Commissioner for Information stressed that Mrs. Dalic is obliged to state who wrote the law and that this must not be hidden. Therefore, it is not surprising that 77% of Croatian citizens feel that you are leading the government in the wrong direction, that 60% of respondents in the large survey believe that corruption and bribes have advanced and that there is a great reason for economic problems in the Republic of Croatia, and 74% of respondents believe that your government is unable to fight corruption successfully. Also, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia says that the picture that lies before us today in Croatia is not bright and it is neither pessimism nor optimism but reality. It says that Croatia is moving away in standard even from Eastern Europe, so the gross domestic product per capital is 85% of the development of new members, and GDP growth is lower than in other new members. That we have one of the lowest employment rates in the EU and another lowest employment rate of 64 years old, and young people leave home at the latest in the EU and social support is low. How about this opinion of the President of the State who would obviously sign our request for your recall?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58137	Thank you. Answer? No, I don't. Let's move on. Then it's Predrag Matic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I have realized from the beginning of your arrival at the head of HDZ what many in the SDP are not, and even less in HDZ. You're a smart, civilized and good man, but because of the team you're on, you've got to act like you're the kind of guy who's been acting like a HDZ man who's been trying to get his hands on people here, but I totally understand you. So you're certainly not one of those who thinks the country is a flat plate, that you're against abortion, that you're against homosexuals, you're certainly not "ready for home". But you're on a team where people like Culei and other Karamark sleepers and you have to act the way you act and I know it's hard for you and in that part Mr. Bunjac was absolutely right. What I'm trying to tell you is that I'm going to give you support if there happens to be a problem with the number of votes I'm going to give you, because I'm going to give it to you honestly and out of conviction because I know you want to bring HDZ to one level of the civilized party that they've been failing for 27 years and you can trust me more than you can trust those you bought at the sale, buy 3 shares you get 5. Therefore, be sure and even if you object to me from the SDP, if there are any problems with the votes on mine, you can count on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58139	Is that a promise? Okay. [[Invader Matić: Promise.]] We can certainly read it before the Prime Minister does. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Col. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58140	Dear President, Honorable Representative Fred Matic This Regulation shall enter [[Intruder President: Please just article.]] My friend Matić, I am not a sleeper, but I am very awake when you and you are alike on the other side. I have to be awake because of you so you don't miss something, that you don't spoil something, which is in the interest of our Croatian homeland. I'm awake day and night because of you, because I can't let myself sleep so that you don't give me God find me to sleep Well, I've said enough. [[Is that it?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58141	And you've also earned a warning by your performance, you're aware of that. Do you want a warning, too, or will you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58142	So Mr. Culey, that's what I have to call him because we're in this High House, persistently insulting. And look. This Regulation shall enter [[The President's intrusion: Just a little bit, like this colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58143	.../Intruder President: colleague Matic, I gave Cule a warning to my colleagues./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58144	Well, give it to me, too. I'm not worse than him. Not at all. And is that worth commenting on, sir? [[/The President's intrusion: but I interrupted it. So here's another 10 seconds to explain.]] He's the one who has to take care of himself once. Whoever once betrayed someone, the old proverb says they'll most likely betray again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58145	Okay. Let's go, let's go. You've been warned, of course. But let's not use that institution to hurt the Rules of Procedure for no reason, because then we'll go in the wrong direction. We really have through the replicas enough space to give our opinion. Replication response, Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58146	Thank you very much, Honorable Representative Matic. I am pleased that you are always ready to deepen the parliamentary majority, I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58147	Next is colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58148	Thank you, Prime Minister. Excuse me. Dear Prime Minister, all those who accuse you of this all the time you've made and who came to your table Agrokor that you didn't hope for, I will personally say again as a businessman or as a businessman I stand behind you for doing a good job. I mean, I still don't think there was any other solution than what you just did, and I think that's good, because it's a private company. Of course, the state won't stand behind it, that there are religious societies who run this company and that's what needs to be known. However, people who are demagogues, non-workers, who have sat or done nothing in their lives, and this Assembly is a really pleasant thing to say and in fact to express constant demagogue and to say that nothing is right. I'd rather talk about what was good done and then tell that good guy what wasn't. I personally as a man who's been working for years, here I am even underrated because people are underestimating themselves. People of anything to do in the West don't ask you what you are, but what you do and how successful you are. I can boast that I'm successful so far that I've paid all this country and my people what there is. So there's no need to be ashamed of the gentleman who tried to underestimate me. He wasn't my father's cop, he wasn't my ex-wife. He was already a peasant who worked fairly and raised his children honestly. And I stand behind this House, I think I'm an honest citizen who's not ashamed of anyone but no one, gentlemen. And thank you, Prime Minister, and I'm standing by your side and I think you're doing a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58149	Comrade Bauk, I don't know what hurt you, but obviously something hurt you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58150	Mr. President, my impression is that Article 238(1) has been injured. To talk about a subject that is not subject to discussion. But I suggest to the Prime Minister, if Mr. Misic once again says to himself that he is a businessman, that you replace Ramljak and put him in Agrokor, and I give myself a warning that you don't have to, because I've gone past the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58151	Yeah, but you want to be part of this good society that has a warning so fine. A warning has been issued and colleagues to Bauku. Does the Prime Minister want it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58152	Thank you very much, honourable representative Misic. So what seems to me is that you are trying to convey the message of people who are facing the real challenges that many companies, many societies face in the context of this crisis every day. You belong to the ones I alluded to when I said there are people who understand little more about the threats, the possible consequences and the possible sudden uncontrollable crash that was literally at the door in the first weeks of April. And I see that you understand it and it is good that there are people in the Croatian Parliament who understand it and who are ready in such a clear way based on their experience to say it and communicate it to the Croatian public. This debate is there for the Croatian public and that is what is important. I am deeply convinced that the vast majority of Croatian citizens understand what has been achieved so far in this process, what is intended to be done, which is the way to go and why it is going. And that's a good thing. If there are people who want to score some political points so that they want to destabilise, slow it down, make it fragile, we can say to deter the potential of future investors in the company. Because that's what we're essentially doing with this process. It's also legitimate. But in the end, we're going to weigh everything down on who played what role, who was what he was talking about at what point and why he stood up for it. So, that's the point of my message is that we are working in good faith, legally, legally, responsibly, with the protection of the general social goals of Croatia in the crisis that came alone, not planned by the government. Take care of it. Your former ministers know that of course they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58153	Thank you. Now it's Vice President Zeljko Reiner's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58154	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister. You mentioned it, though, but I don't think some people want to hear it or pretend not to hear it. So if it had come as some have called for company bankruptcy then part of the commitment for workers would have to take over the state and the state would have to pay them at least three months. Payments from the government budget, therefore, paid by taxpayers. Also, respected counterpart Bernardic mentioned exactly 28 times today how much the advisers in Agrokor are paying. But it is not mentioned that it is not paid from the state budget, that it is not paid by Croatian taxpayers but paid by the company. Also, you mentioned but some do not want to hear that an extraordinary commissioner has appointed a court and that the court is following Article 14. The law is the only one in charge of overseeing the work of an extraordinary commissioner. So you did mention it, but it seems like some people haven't heard or didn't want to hear it. And in the end, I would ask all of us one question. If by chance someone on this side of the assembly had said the words "on an angry wound, angry grass" as one SDP representative said today, how would many in this assembly react, and how would the media react? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58155	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Rainer. The Prime Minister's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58156	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will probably ask today during the day future debate will be long for both the Minister of Labour and the pension system that is here, at one point take the word for the Government and further elaborate all aspects relating to the costs that the state would have had in case there was a loss of jobs. That would be good, that would be good and useful because I can see that one part of a colleague doesn't want to raise awareness of all these threats and all those costs that would already have happened. And it may well be that many would end the period of compensation that the state would give according to the law. And now we might be out of work, without pay and without receiving and without living for your family, and that didn't happen. And I think it would be good to respect it as at least one fact, we don't have to qualify it, but to respect it as a fact, that would already be one big contribution. For this second comment you've said enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58157	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58158	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister. In fact, we're all aware of what happened and you know best in January when the credit rating of Agrokor concert itself fell. So the government must have called and in one way encouraged the administration to solve the problems independently as responsible administrations should. At that point, the debt to the employees until the day of entry into force of this Law was only EUR 200 million to the employees and about 348 million to the suppliers. So the government expected that the responsible administration would find solutions and that it would then actually offer its vision of how it should be done. However, it was found to be a liability and that the company's debt amounted to more than 40 billion kuna, so the administration did not see the size and significance of the whole problem, and in addition, these employees were then to receive that 200 million kuna and never again. What does that mean? It means destroying the entire system but in a way that would be an uncontrollable bankruptcy at that point. That's what's most important because in that bankruptcy, then, what you said as skyscrapers just fall into a series of all, or that's the domino effect that crashes the entire economic system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58159	Thank you. The Prime Minister's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58160	Thank you. Well, here's thanks to this intervention of yours, just to mention one segment left in the shadows. Therefore, the objective distribution retail chain of Agrokora i.e. The consumer is one of those players on the market, but the biggest. And this network in the tourist season as we had in the Republic of Croatia has practically determined what kind of offer, service in Croatia will be. Imagine how this would work on some of the Croatian islands that are tourist destinations where there is no competition? What would it look like if it all fell apart? Do you think that people who came to Croatia would be happy to comment on the great land of the sun, the sea, the nature, the lovable people, but there's no bread, there's no water, there's nothing to buy. A little awkward in the 21st century. Would that be good for our image, would those people come back again, would they say in their references brilliantly we'll come back again? Do you think that would be one result that we could be proud of today? Luckily that didn't happen, that scenario we didn't see. On the contrary, we saw a successful scenario. And it's crucial and it's important for the public to recognize, to see that they understand. And that is why we want the process of restructuring and the settlement process to result in quality business and the functioning of companies in the system, especially those that form the basis of the Agrokora business. And we're going to insist on that that must be the meaning of all the activities in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58161	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, for his reply. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58162	Dear Prime Minister, we're here today here's colleague Reiner noticed it nicely, 28 times we heard a lie we heard a lie. A colleague, Bernardic, said 28 times that Mr Ramljak's salary is on the burden of the state budget. Which isn't true. And on the other hand, we don't have any reaction right now. In fact, no one's going to get the ash and say we told the truth. And all the absurdity of this situation actually says that we have a blog by Ivica Todorovic, which I will say today is quoted by colleague Bernardic and his colleagues from the SDP. If it wasn't for that blog, I don't even know if we could even talk about this topic. On the one hand we have a decision, on the other hand we have an idealessness, on the one hand we have numbers, on the other hand I've already said populism. On the one hand, we have a plan. On the other hand, we have fog. On the one hand, we have a law on the procedure of the extraordinary administration of societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand we have what? You're out of How ridiculous and absurd it is for me to mention what my colleague Bernardic said earlier to his colleague, Škoric. He resented him for 5. 8. In 1995, he did not bring a flag to the city of Knin. He's got something wrong with that. A colleague, Škorić, his best reference is that he was in Knin on his shoulder with General Gotovina on that date, freed Knin. And tell your colleague Bernardic when he comes back, that he brought 100 flags to Knin, he forgot to play the cross case, but that too, after General Gotovina's warning was corrected in the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58163	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58164	Thank you very much. Your Honor. We know that at the time when the SDP was due to respond to the crisis that occurred at the 3rd month, at the beginning of the 4th month, there was no response and they reacted destructively and tried to survive today in this destruction and we can interpret this impeachment in this way because it is visible that they have nothing to offer. I personally asked Mr Bernardic to tell us three basics of this plan for Agrokor, he didn't answer anything he didn't understand, he didn't want to answer because they didn't actually have anything. What we understand is that they want to manage the trustee's money, they as SDP, so they want to manage Agrokor in their own way. And apparently they want to be some kind of investigator for some reason only they know. But the fact is, not everyone in the SDP thinks as much as their leader and part of the MPs here in the Parliament do. Because this is witnessed by a statement delivered today by the media from a consultation in Opatija given by Mr Zvonimir Mršić of the SDP adviser to Mr Ante Ramljak, who says, at the moment, Agrokor is in a transition period from something called the failed economic model to something new. We are confident that we will succeed, and success is a bargain with the faithful within time. So we have one part of the SDP that supports what's going on, supports the law that we've passed all the processes that happen in Agrokor, there's one part of the SDP that's trying to bring down those who've made it possible for that to happen and that today tens of thousands of people while we're discussing are working to get their pay and that they'll still be able to produce. So maybe here's your comment on why we have it inside the SDP and why we should insist on what we started at the 4th month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58165	I thank my colleague, Boric. The Prime Minister's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58166	Thank you, dear colleague Boric, for your comment. Well, it's good to hear such opinions especially from people who have experience in the business sector. And the fact is that the restructuring process presented in its framework lines a few days ago presents a major challenge. This process which we are now witnessing is one of the largest restructurings that is happening on the European continent at this time. These are demanding processes and require highly sophisticated knowledge and experts to present the process. We made a prerequisite for that to happen. If we hadn't made those preconditions for such restructuring, there wouldn't be. So, you take care of that too, for what is happening today, if there was no law at that time we couldn't talk about that segment of agriculture and food segments and retail segments that are key segments of the company seeing their perspective, their maintenance and further generation of business. That wouldn't happen. Restructure, settlement, are a fundamental goal. It is obvious that Mr. Mršić is well directed at what is happening in what is being done intensively. A labour intensity could also be seen, and according to this request submitted yesterday with regard to demand, labour intensity was also seen in the audit of accounting reports, labour intensity was also seen when new lending and new liquidity were allowed. And you can see in the first signs of a different business of the company. And the transformation effect of this law and all the consequences of what is happening will have positive effects on the Croatian economy in the long term. That's the point and that's the goal and I think Mr. Mršić recognized it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58167	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58168	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President, in point 2 of this proposal, part of the opposition that signed the proposal actually accuses that the government has chosen direct state intervention by adopting this law. So, I have to say, it's totally missed. Direct state intervention was all they did during their reign very generously and pumped direct money into the system of Agrokor, and you didn't do it. You did very responsiblely what you had to do, you went to stabilise the economic system by passing a law that actually created a framework for Agrokor to be restructured. In this way, the Government did not enter into the ownership of Agrokor or of Agrokor's finances, but created the possibility for creditors to decide further on how the system will be reconstructed and stabilised. This is what believers do today, they save Agrokor, not taxpayers. What I want to ask is, do you think that any believer is making decisions primarily in the interest of any policy or its interest in saving what is being saved from his claims? So let's not be naive here, gentlemen of the opposition, don't insinuate what's clear to all citizens that it's practically impossible. I would once again like to ask if it is responsible that the opposition in a situation where the system is stabilised behaves like this by insinuating the government's responsibility or should they call for the responsibility of the owner of Agrokor and those involved in the management? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58169	I thank my colleague Jelkovac. Mr. Plenkovic's reply to the esteemed Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58170	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Jelkovac, thank you for your comment and analysis. It is up to everyone to assess how they will approach what should be good for Croatian society and for the Croatian economy. I'm pleased to have you refer to the opposition for a vote of no confidence, and I'm going to refer a little bit to the government's response and obviouss. So despite the fact that we have to admit to facing a rather specific document that came to the government obviously under the impression of media inscriptions, blogs or I don't know which other sources of information we have been guided by the logic that the government delivers, which it adopts, which points to the Croatian Parliament can be equally strong days and can be equally strong in the future. That is why we have written very carefully in this indication everything that we think is important, that it is relevant, that it is essential to remove false thesis, information, insinuations that are constantly in public and media space, and this question that concerns the second question. A question that speaks of scavenger or vulture funds and a question that apparently implies that the life of the bonds is not understood. Once Agrokor betrayed the bonds, he got the money. The bonds are paper traded on the market. Do you think the Croatian state today knows who all the bondholders that the Croatian state has issued are? You don't know and there's this distinction about information or information about the content of such a complex topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58171	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Next replica, respected colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58172	Your Honor, Prime Minister. Agrokor is a private company, created by private capital, such companies in the world form and disappear not only such but also larger, it simply happens in capitalism. And you said rightly, and we as Government could keep quiet, let it all go to waste, but we didn't, we reacted, we were responsible, we went to save jobs, we brought Lex Agrokor. In order for the law to be activated, the founder, the manager, the owner of Agrokora, Mr. Todorovic, had to sign it, and he did so. At that moment, I trusted you and the entire government, and I was glad you found one solution that you promised. However, the situation has changed, Ivica Todorovic today claims Agrokor is being robbed, robbed by HDZ, robbed by the Croatian government, robbed by Plenkovic with the help of the commissioners, robbed in the interest of an American fund which I do not know why but calls it a vulture. I guess there's some reason for that. I, when I hear that HDZ is robbing someone, I have to admit to you because I remember the extent of these robberies from past times, from Tudjman's time through privatisation and Sanader's time through Fimi Media where HDZ has even received an unlawful verdict as a criminal organization, today it's in the status of a powerful indictment. So you have to understand our fear, Croatia does not belong only to you and part of the HNS, Croatia belongs to all its citizens and that when someone who knows the situation in Agrokor, and Ivica Todorovic probably knows him, says Agrokor is robbing and that's what HDZ does, we fear. We're afraid, and I think that's what we're afraid of with justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58173	I'd like to thank Mr. Stazici for the replica. Answer, Prime Minister Mr. Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58174	Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed representative Stazic. Two days ago, I had a chance to hear from one of the MPs in the Assembly who were having doubts about my sexual orientation. Now I've managed to hear from you the formulation that Plenkovic's robbery, not you, but you've said it, so let the people and the public hear it will sit well in your overall framework that HDZ, therefore, exists with you and those who have some sort of fearsome suspicion of guilt, right. So we've turned these fundamentals a little bit, there's a premise of innocence as a principle in the first, there's a premise of guilt with you, the guilt of me as president of the government, the president of the HDZ, all of our colleagues here, that we're thieves, criminals, that all we want to do is steal someone's something to eat right? Is that thesis? I think when you have, obviously when SDP has a club you try to find a way to sediment that feeling. You're not gonna make it. My colleague Bulj can tell me that he doesn't know what I'm doing behind closed doors and what my orientation is. You can't hear, you better not hear. We can discuss it any way we want, but you can suggest this this way, but you won't succeed, you won't, you won't find me a single piece of corruption in my life on any subject and you won't make it believe me. And that's why I'm going to resist with all my passion your, your club, your party, your obviously informal partners here who want to create the impression that we're doing something illegal. Now you won't succeed in that, believe me, I will fight my entire political life to remove it from both myself and the party. And that's why I'm here and I guarantee it. Take care of that, both you and your colleague Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58175	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your response. I would really ask you colleagues and colleagues not to go into each other's word but to let everyone say what he imagined. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister. I'd like something on the government's testimony to our request, so I'd like to give your attention a little bit better question and answer to question no. 9 on page 13 of the government's obvious. It is discussed under which circumstances the provision of a contract which makes it significantly difficult for the Government to replace the extraordinary commissioner and exposes Agrokor and the Government to the possible costs that are measured in billions of kunas. The answer we received from the government is not quite as concrete as you said in that sense, so I would like to hear your direct answer to those questions a little bit. So the provisions that are cut with lex Agrokora are not thrown out of the signed contract, but signed as such, and are now said to have signed something that the government does not have to respect. If there's anything I can't honor, then I can't even sign it. If Mr. Ramljak signed it on his own, then he should resign because he signed something that is inconclusive to the new lenders. And in the end, is it that by either government or by being an extraordinary commissioner on behalf of the state formally appointed by the Commercial Court on a proposal from the Government, and the court couldn't have done otherwise or actually cheated on new creditors? So Ramljak is de facto immeasurable, it doesn't say that he can't resign for private reasons because he signed something that can't be implemented because of the law and in the end, since in answer to question number 2 you delivered the appearance of an extraordinary commissioner that you could and in case of question number 9, and my impression is that you actually moved this Lex Agrokorom problem Agrokor from Jasenovac to Novsk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58177	Thank you very much, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Prime Minister Plenkovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58178	Dear Representative Bauk, therefore, the government's response and testimony is very thoroughly addressed and I think it's even incomparable to your request to vote for mistrust in every sense. As for the provisions in the contracts relating to lending between financial systems, institutions and some business entities, when there's a creditor in the situation that gives big money to a company then he's doing something called due dilligence, is that normal? It is. Then he's looking at the state of the company where she's at the moment, what her plans are, and he's also interested in who's running the company. He wants a guarantee that if he gives money that he knows about which direction, on which basis and who and how he will lead the company further, i.e. its restructuring. Can you put in a time frame a moment of conclusion of this contract and we can say political situations in Croatia? You can because you're well-informed and you remember everything. So, the first 80m euros came right after the extraordinary administration process opened, this second part of the larger, key, which was important for ensuring financial stability, the integrity of the financing process, came in early June. And he's quite coincided with the formation of a new parliamentary majority. With what? With that key message of stability, predictability and reliability. The government of the Republic of Croatia can always change its commissioner by law. And later, the other commissioner can gain trust with these creditors. These are not provisions that would bulls troublesome or trap the government, the state, you, let alone the illusions you uttered in the last sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58179	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58180	Dear Prime Minister, in your presentation, you said in the case of the Agrokor solution situation that you had 4 opportunities not to do anything, nationalize, give the Agrokor funds required in the amount of 300m euros or pass this Law on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in trading companies of systemic importance to the Republic of Croatia. And during the morning and you stressed that no taxpayers' kuna entered Agrokor and during the morning probably because of this spin information was spinning here from the irresponsible head of the opposition that pension funds had lost strong funds and that perhaps pensions were questionable. So, it wants to create doubt, to rock the faith of pensioners to pay off pensions or possibly create chaos, the top is obviously targeted several times. But the truth works to say that the value of pension funds in the Republic of Croatia is greater than 88 billion kuna, and that their value increased in last year by 9.2 billion kuna. Only in the personal accounts of members of compulsory pension funds was paid about 3.8 billion kuna, so 5% more than last year. Therefore, it should be said that the pension system is a stable system, that pensions are paid through HZMO and that this Agrokora situation has not damaged pension funds at all, however, their profits were 1.7 billion kuna in the last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58181	I thank my colleague Anti Babic. The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58182	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Babic, it is a good thing that you mentioned this topic concerning pension funds, the logic of politics and the limitations of their investments. The fact that during the afternoon, here are colleagues Pavić will also take the floor and I will ask him to elaborate the segment a little bit, but most importantly, what is important is that the Croatian public, that our pensioners know and this is clearly seen from the statements made by the representatives of pension funds themselves, at no time, in any way the pensions of Croatian pensioners are not threatened or threatened. And that message must be clear, and therefore I thank you for raising this issue to the agenda of this debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58183	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58184	Mr. Plenkovic, we are following closely today, recording all your actions in which you slander the opposition, to which you emphasize, remember, record, notify, so I guess it's in the manner of your advisors who made the trade in some other times. MOST's deputies will today take advantage of the opportunity to continue the work of the Investigative Commission. I don't understand why you're being protected by HDZ agents, so they won't let you come to the Bureau of Investigation. I honestly don't believe you're up to the task, I believe you are up to it, but I don't know why they're protecting you. Since we do not have such an opportunity, we will give you questions today, some of the questions we would have asked you if you had appeared before the Investigative Commission. I really hope that you will answer these questions honestly, that we will resolve at least in part or dismember the 28-year-old ribbon, that you will allow us with your answers so that Mr. Todorovic no longer slanders us. I also believe that you'll be honest because today truly means everything just not that. As for the question I intend to ask, I don't know if you're familiar with the situation that certain funds, such as B2 capital or similar, are today buying out claims from banks to suppliers. And suppliers to Agrokor make it possible for unknown capital to take over some important Croatian companies. And at this point absolutely no one is in charge of them. They're neither under HANFA control, nor controlled by the CNB. All they need is for them to get the HNB's consent to do that, they get it neatly. I hope you understand the dangers and will change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58185	I thank Mr. God Petrov for the replica. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58186	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I expected that the respected diameter would begin to answer the questions on this subject, however, it is obvious that Prime Minister Seksa, pardon, Prime Minister Plenkovic is far more important to work the circus both from the Parliament and from the public with lies and deceptions, because Mr Petrov asked one question, to which the public expects an answer. It was not offensive, nor was it written in Seks' workshop or Valentiæ's workshop or Greguric's. Therefore, Mr Plenkovic, I feel a little sorry for you, because you are not the prime minister of this government's position, Vladimir Seks, and his assistants are Valentic and Greguric. Here, I will also ask you one question, as well as war profit, because long ago, here, my colleague Brkic was in the security services while he was rich in Todorovic, Emil Tedeski and similar to those taken by the entire economic system. Mr. Plenkovic, are you familiar with the purchase... d.d. amounts to which the consequences of the intermediary, Ivica Todorovic, received from the state after the transaction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I really hope that you will answer this question too, because you were then secretary of the ministry, Mr. President Gordan Jandrokovic, and the lady on the right next to you, the Deputy Prime Minister was the finance minister. It was 2010, so I believe you know, because you were secretary of the ministry. Your minister then, Mr. Jandrokovic, was on a tighter cabinet, so that you can answer this question, as it refers to war profiteering, refers to the war damage that has been drawn from... If you can answer that in Vukovar, the city symbol, so here, if you can answer that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58187	I thank my colleague Bull. You'd just read the agenda point we're discussing today, for some MPs, they obviously don't know what we're discussing, so today's agenda item is the proposal to launch a trust issue on the government of the Republic of Croatia. It's just like information. Secondly, also, some colleagues need obvious information that today is not a current clock and that you are not asking questions, but you are entitled to replicas. And the replica says you can respond to the speaker's exposure. Thank you very much for Mr. Bull's replica. We're moving on. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58188	Your Honor, Vice President. Here, Prime Minister Plenkovic, obviously that as you do not want to come before the parliamentary investigation committee, you do not want to answer key questions here either. Mr. Brkic's theme, Vice-President of the Parliament, is Agrokor's recall and impeachment over the Agrokor situation, which is a key topic all these days. I don't know where you live, you're a member of the parliamentary investigating committee, so you should know what we're discussing or just get the assignments you need to perform there. As for what my colleague Bulj has set up, it's very important. Because counterpart Stazic said HDZ is now robbing Ivica Todorovic. No robbery, if that happens, not just a HDZ robbery, we see that there are people in the SDP. And I'd say in our neighborhood it's said, godfather brought, godfather took. There's such an interesting saying. As for what he had set up by his colleague Bulj around Vupik, then our President of the Parliament Gordan Jandrokovic, served as minister, at the narrow cabinets where the decision was made, bought Vupik for 30 million kuna, in order to later charge war damages of 300 million kuna in Agrokor. This is proof that Ivica Todorovic and Agrokor had political support from the highest levels of this country. If this political support had been attended by people who still have significant influence in this government today, people who are the presidents of the parliament today, who were then an important part of the HZD government and this is evidence and the breakdown of Todorovic's defence that he is not politically persecuted in Croatia. But he gave political protection and political support. Those questions should be answered by Prime Minister Plenkovic, and I am now asking him to answer the question, whether Minister of Finance, former Director of Agrokora, introduced him to the situation of taking over Badel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58189	I thank Mr. Never Throat for the replica. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58190	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. President of the Government. Of course, it is a good observation that we should refer to the work of this government and to the very question that we have raised at the time was the question of the government's trust because we were a partner in the government together with HDZ. Minister Maric's question was one of the key ones at the time. We see that half of this Parliament was actually supported and it already says how thin the majority was, and the way most of this was created, you'll know you'll answer better yourself than you'd probably want us to. Minister Maric's question, I think it was as legitimate as it was when we talked about it, because it wasn't in the end, that it was a convincing majority that would confirm it, so they would say it doesn't matter. But it becomes important for me, and it's personal to me, and here's the answer and my colleagues to Grumoji, which means around Badel, whose decision was crucial? It was a key decision by the finance minister, because he made a decision on behalf of the government, actually on behalf of all public bodies, a 60% write-off. This was later transmitted in the form of a pre-fashion settlement, and in this way Ivica Todorovic, through Darko Knez, his director, managed to master Badel as one of the great companies. But I'm saying, there's only one part of the financial management that's going on. And on the other hand, here's one question that can be related to this is the same from an affair that you didn't actually answer as a Government, which is the management of Nexus' Fund for Economic Cooperation and the decision to lend to the Agrodor system where HBOR and the Ministry of Finance are partners there, so I'm asking you if you've got information about how the entire course of this was happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58191	I thank my colleague Tomislav Panenic for his replica. We move on to the next line, respected colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58192	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, you said here in your statement that people will know how to distinguish a non-serious policy on serious politics. And then you come in here and you're unseriously refusing to answer the very serious questions of the MPs. So on this previous question, it's actually true that the Ministry of Finance as a trustee and not even the HBOR who is paying funds into the Fund for Economic Cooperation have received any information from Nexus or even the HANFA. To make matters worse, Nexus rejected the HBOR's request for an ongoing surveillance of Nexus. And the final result is that Nexus still has a license even though the conditions for withdrawal have been obtained. Furthermore, in your presentation here, you have noted that this government has so far acted responsibly and legally. So, speaking of which, legally, and since Jamnica, Zvijezda, Ledo and Pic Vrbovac were granted 48.3m euros at the end of last year from HBOR exclusively for export preparation, we are interested in whether these loans were actually used to prepare exports and whether you were informed by the chairman of the HBOR Supervisory Board about how to use these loans. If these loans are not used for purpose, do you know what measures should be taken by the chairman of the Supervisory Board, as well as by the finance minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58193	I thank my dear colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58194	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, you said in your statement that you were regularly briefed by the Government's Commissioner on all activities and on all the findings that he found in Agrokor's concert, so we expected to report to you on the spending of HBOR's credit, whether or not this credit was spent on purpose, and that should also have been reported by the chairman of the Supervisory Board, your Minister of Finance, so the question is whether he initiated a certain application if the loan was not purposefully spent. Likewise, whether you were briefed by the Prime Minister on the course of negotiations on the conclusion of the roll-up loan, which was concluded and signed on 8 June this year. If you forgot a day later on June 9th, the government was formed or filled with missing ministers. But the fact is that Mr Ramljak said that the deal on roll-up credit was concluded in a politically very unstable situation when it was not given whether Croatia would have a government at all or have early parliamentary elections. That way he gave an answer why we got a very bad contract that's like that and... Our question is whether you consider yourself responsible for the situation that the government was a pain in the ass in a very politically unstable situation with a delay during the local elections and that in this situation, the government's commissioner, in the worst political situation, negotiated a contract that is, very harmful to the public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58195	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dolnjak, on the line. Dear colleagues, I would only ask for peace in the assembly. Next replica, respected counterpart Hrvoje Runtic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister Plenkovic, I've been listening to your statements and the minister's, too. It seems to me that most of what you said in that exhibition is known to the general public of Croatia, so that's what the media mostly portals say, I would say every 7 minutes some news comes out about Agrokor means. And if one day goes by where there's not one breaking news, it's a lost day. So what you said and in the debate also means in replicas, these are things that are known to the general Croatian public. I think the public should know the answers to some questions they're not talking about. I mean these questions that my colleagues and colleagues asked before me. More or less according to the information that I have, not only in Croatia but in the wider so-called Only so far has the region not been written "Blue Owner" and "Smib". Namely, about what your colleague Podolnjak asked you, I must tell you that this put you at risk, in fact, the situation in Agrokor, because in that month and a half you subordinated for local elections of state interest to party interests, you brought Agrokor into trouble. And according to Mr. Ramljak, you've put them in a position to have more unfavourable terms of the loan. My question is this, do you know how Agrokor received financial resources for the purchase of the wine company JASKA-VINO d.d. Better known as Young Man's basement? And do you see that transaction of policy and economics, or the creation of Agrokor? And I would kindly ask you to answer me if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58197	I thank my colleague Hrvoje Runtic for the replica. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58198	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Government. Here's a little closer to the past, then we'll go further. On 31 March this year, the government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a draft law on extraordinary management in commercial societies at its 28th session, which it referred to in its parliamentary procedure on 5 April, together with an amendment to the HDZ that followed the law. April 6th, the law was passed and then two days after the proposal by the extraordinary commissioner that you have proposed and the Trade Court in the next two days' names, actually made a decision to open the procedure. So that happened 214 days ago, 5 hours, 4 minutes and 55 seconds ago. That's how long it's been since an extraordinary commissioner took the commitment to Agrokor. However, the extraordinary commissioner admits to reporters that he met with certain creditors and creditors on March 30th and before that. My question to you is whether he introduced you to these meetings before you proposed him as an extraordinary commissioner. Did you know about the details of these meetings or perhaps even in this time-out, and when we speak, you mentioned the clean hands here today? Is it really us as agents that we can believe that there was no hidden intention in this? And as for this part when we talk about further past and Runtic's question, of course you know and I know, everyone here knows how privatisation went. The commercial bank credited the gentleman who guaranteed the loan with the property of the company he was buying. It was done in the Jaska case. Incidentally, at the time, the minister was this gentleman who here in the Parliament was giving lessons and said he was guarding this House with a rifle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58199	I thank you for the replica of the respected Tomislav Zhagar. The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the thing, together, I'm just going to briefly comment on the MOST's attempt to turn a parliamentary debate initiated mainly by the SDP, with the support of several other opposition representatives into the work of the Research Commission. So, first of all, as regards the Commission of Investigation, since the SDP was on 21 April, that's how you applied for the Commission's work at the time. You have listed nice tax points to be dealt with by this commission. And you started that analysis in chronological order. Every investigative committee in the history of the Croatian Parliament has gone in chronological order following the reference framework as adopted by the Parliament. And it would be good for colleagues from the MOST and colleagues from the SDP to explain to the Croatian public that the Investigation Commission is working in exactly the order you've advocated to start. You can put your head down, but that's the way it is. You wanted to go ab this. That was your goal. Now that it's politically opportunistic to you, it's interesting to jump back to the early 1990s to two thousand and seventeenth, that's another question. When chronologically everything related to this year's HDZ is there, the government is there, the government is ready. And what one of you has insinuated is that we've brought an extraordinary commissioner into a situation that has to make such a deal at such a time no, no, no. You brought him here with your loyalty, your desire to vote against a colleague you've been sitting with in the government for a year and a half. It was your decision and your choice and the public must know. It was your move, not the government's move, and that's the key, and that's what's important is that you sit down, that people understand. You can't be in the government and be an opposition at the same time, it doesn't work. It doesn't exist anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58201	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58202	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Article 235, 238, etc. has been injured. Not to mention, but I think you're very well aware, you should have stopped your party president. But I understand that you can't do that, so you'll simply let him speak, and it's not in line with the replica, that you'll also let him talk 20 seconds more, that you'll probably let me say half a minute to Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, you will very, many times repeat your thesis in the media and of course your thesis in the media will pass for the reasons you have arrangements and that is all right. But some things you won't be able to stop as Mr. Jandrokovic said we have a problem today, the government has a problem today, there are social networks you know there are social networks. And what's even bigger is that when we've been warning you in public for a month that you have a deal with your colleagues from the HNS, we don't have what they said we swear we don't have, we protect, we kept quiet to get better points in the local elections. And that's why Mr. Ramljak said that you threatened and that that made him less likely and weaker terms of credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58203	Dear Mr. Petrov, as you can see, you've exceeded 25 seconds, you've abused the Rules of Procedure. If we talked about topics, then you couldn't speak in that replica about the subject, nor did you speak. I don't see the Rules of Procedure getting hurt in any way. I am really asking you not to abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure in the future because I will be forced to give you a warning. Thank you very much. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58204	Dear Vice President, Article 238 has been injured. None of the representatives of the Most in their questions spoke of the Assembly's investigation committee. No, that was Mr. Petrov's introduction. You have refused to answer a number of questions in which the Parliamentary Research Commission is not mentioned at all. I'm a historian. I know what's chronological. I guess you won't be convincing us that even chronologically if something isn't going in order, and you've had a certain upheaval, so they didn't come in front of the commission because the HDZ colleagues and those in the HNS voted that they didn't come in front of the commission, that's a fact. Follow whom they refused, they were before they were called. But it doesn't matter, it's not about the commission, it's about you answering the questions you've been asked, and you've avoided answering them. And as for responsibility, you've had 40 days to put together a government, but more important interest in HDZ and HNS than the interest of the state, 40 days. And my colleague Vrdoljak was telling me to spread fake news.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58205	My colleague Grumo, again you have the same answer as Mr. God Petrov that you are abused by the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Next time, I'll give you a warning. Thank you very much. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58206	In 238, the distinguished prime minister said a number of lies, primarily the Honorable Chairman did not speak about what we were giving in replicas but he insinuated and of course it is the only truth, and this knows the whole public that Seks composed the government of Andrej Plenkovic because he warned him that the bridge would bring down you if you let the exceptional Minister Maric remove him from the government. And that's the only truth, and he knows well and the chairman is he and Curaj is often with him, so this government of Andrej Plenkovic is absolutely irrelevant in all of this, this is the government of Vladimir Seks here is Prime Minister Vladimir Seks and every little trip we try to eat on the balcony up there. We know who put the government together, we know how the SDP was deceived where the SDP voters gave HNS votes and now these people are Vrdoljaks at the top of the government. There's very important energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58207	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Like the previous two colleagues, you have also abused the Institute of Rules of Procedure. As for the subject, you have been playing in the replica and in this breach of the Rules of Procedure, so that if you are not satisfied, you can contact the relevant parliamentary committee from which you will receive a lawyer. Thank you very much. We continue with the replicas of our esteemed colleague Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58208	Thank you, Vice President. I'm not going to go into who's really leading the government out of the shadows, maybe there's Mr. Bull here or not, irrelevant, but at the end of the day, it's your responsibility, Prime Minister. I'm glad you've made yourself an expert on the voice of reason today, and I'm really glad that I only don't know if you really think 77 air-conditioned hands have more sense than 77% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. You mentioned the question of one that is quite symbolic, who contributes more to the reputation of Croatia, so I ask you how the reputation of Croatia contributes to a two-year decline on the Doing business list? How does a fall on a list of corrupt countries also contribute? You say investors will not come to Croatia because of the opposition's behaviour, perhaps these are the reasons why investors do not come to Croatia. But I reported first of all because of an untruth that's been going through all day, and that's that Agrokor paid off all the little O.P.G.s and all the small suppliers. That's just not true. Answer my question, have you been well advised by these 141 coming from Agrokor? What about those little suppliers who worked through the production organizers? There are many of them, such as the majority, and they have not received a single kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58209	I thank Mr. Tomic for the replica. Answer, Prime Minister Mr. Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58210	Dear Representative Tomic, all the small suppliers, all the OPGs who had direct demand from Agrokor were paid. Whether all of Agrokor's suppliers have been paid off, it is very difficult to expect him to solve an extraordinary commissioner. And I see that you're alluding to who's running the government as well as Mr. Chovik and who's coming out of the House now, if it's not clear to you by now, then you're living in confidence together, have fun with me this cute interaction will always make me happy, I'm sure the public will have fun, and if you want to join that likable game, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58211	I thank you for your response to the respected Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Veseligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58212	Thank you, Vice President. So here's today's debate on what I can detect the level of communication from you Prime Minister towards us in the SDP, so I'm just going to have a few of your qualifications that we've heard here today. There's nothing, the initiative we don't know how the government works, you're scaring us with the crash, there won't be any bread, there won't be water. You generally act like a great teacher, a great leader, and you may have been born in the wrong period. You underestimate us, you underestimate us here all the time and you haven't cleaned up in your ranks. You have a number of your representatives with the exception of honest people who exist in the HDZ that you didn't get in line, which you should have because it's your job as party president, as president of the government as well. You have people in the government who are a weight and a burden on you, and the real leader, which you like to represent, should be dealt with at the beginning or at least when you have stood up power, and you must have got up or didn't. You have a finance minister who was your right-hand man in the company we're talking about today. You have a Deputy Prime Minister, who doesn't want to give a reply about who wrote the contested law, which is duty. It is a duty under the Law on Access to Information, it is a duty under Article 39 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution. Unfortunately, you don't know how to pick a team. I will end up with Commissioner for Agrokor, Mr Ramljak, a man of impressive biography, but only man has never worked in the field of nutrition, neither in the area of sales, nor in the area of agriculture, has gained the greatest experience in the field of energy. Is he the right man for this job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58213	I'd like to thank my colleagues for this replica. Answer, Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58214	Your Honor, Mr. Velligaj, I find it very interesting that you're all all very thin together. You're a little weird. So everything's fine when you attack, throw, qualify, disqualify, don't tell the truth. Whatever you want to throw away, all of it can be glued to the members of the government, to HDZ, label it, and that's okay, and is that correct? It's natural, it's on the trail of this precedent, the guilt Mr. Stazic is talking about. It's normal for you to come here, shake out your spins, your thesis, which you carefully cize, to sediment one and the same message. You won't make it. I guarantee you you won't succeed. You're not gonna make it, because you don't have how and you have no reason. You won't succeed, I guarantee you a colleague of Vesligaj, for a reason, which is both the government and the HDZ personally and this problem approach with the protection of general interest. With the protection of the Croatian economy, jobs, a small man if you will, only for that. We don't deal with the topic of Agrokor, because we put it into our program. We don't deal with it, because we're connected to it. How can you not understand that? What makes you think that I, as Prime Minister, would have the interest of accessing it in the way you induce it. I'm not doing that. I do it in a way to ensure the stability of the Croatian economy and jobs. And if the government has proposed an extraordinary commissioner appointed by a trade court, it's a very important detail. Law activated at the request of the owner and former administration. So there's no imposition, there's no state intervention the way you induce, because that's the point of your request for a vote of confidence. You want to transfer responsibility to the government. You're not gonna make it. I'm doing what's legal and what's good, and we're gonna keep on doing it. No matter what disqualifications you throw away with ease. You're crying if you feel a little, minimally, I'm coming back. like ping pong I play with my left hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58215	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The 238th article, meaning the simplest question, is that Mr. Plenkovic, of course, did not respond at all to his colleagues, but he gave another lesson, which we have seen here for several days, here, to behave... in the Croatian Parliament, as if we were supposed to answer to him, not to us, who chose him for the Croatian diameter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Try Mr. Plenkovic, read a little Constitution, there you gave a lesson about the trio of power, who is responsible for what is responsible etc. Try to understand and in the lobby you are painted here and ceiling, symbolically that only the sky is above the Croatian Parliament. It means only the sky above the Croatian Parliament. You're not sure, I beg you to behave that way. Try to frame your ego a little bit and listen to what is being said here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58217	I thank my colleague Maras for this violation of the Rules of Procedure. And to you, colleague Maras, also the information that you're abused by the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament do not provide lawyers who will interpret the answers to the replica, so that Mr. Vesligaj does not need to interpret whether he has received a quality answer. And the chairman is the one who takes care of the respect of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much, if you are not satisfied, with the committee responsible, you can object, next time with the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I will give you my first warning, I will be very sorry, but it is your choice. Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Martha Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58218	Thank you. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, I have listened carefully to your presentation and reply to the replicas. You have several calls for everything to be transparent throughout the extraordinary administration procedure, that everything is transparent in the adoption of Lex Agrokor, however, you must allow us the right to question, if we believe that something is not clear, if we consider that something is not sufficiently clarified. After reading this report of the Government that I have to admit quite comprehensively, however, I see that there are still in it, except that you have exhaustively cited the chronology of the whole process, there are certain things that have remained unsaid, which have been questionable both through the media and in this House for a long time. Well, here, specifically, for the temporary manager of Mr. Antu Rmaljak, we do not see in this report how it explains the fact that the temporary, that the extraordinary manager of Ante Ramljak, prior to the adoption of Lex Agrokor and before being appointed as an extraordinary manager why and on the basis of which he met with potential creditors. In this report, you state that he did this as a person with long-term working experience in the Croatian financial industry. That's not enough, we don't know who hired him at the 3rd month, so on March 30, he's already meeting with people who will later represent potential creditors and we don't have the law yet, let alone that he's appointed as temporary manager. You also say several times that he was appointed by the court, that is correct, but was proposed by the government. Well, I'd like you to explain to us just because of this transparency how this relationship happened and why these meetings were held before the administration itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58219	I thank my esteemed colleague. And the answer of the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58220	Dear MPs Luc-Polanc. So information that Mr Ramljak, who is otherwise a man who is known in Croatia in financial and economic circles, met with a number of people who came to the Republic of Croatia in the spring of this year to inform himself about what is going on and is alone in his interview as far as I know, since I learned about this information in Split about about 7.8 weeks ago that he was then told before he became Commissioner to meet with numerous representatives of various and domestic and foreign financial institutions. That's all I can tell you about it. Why do you think Mr. Ramljak knew then that he was going to be what he is now in a few days? Who could have known the law would be activated? What guarantee did we have that the law would be activated? We didn't have any. So this thesis that there was something strange, that something controversial he was very clear in his actions I explained his behavior. It would be really strange if I, as Prime Minister, knew who to meet with, where, when and why. I can't know that, I can't answer that, it's neither the subject of my work nor the subject of my interest in the end line. What is important is that it is chosen on the basis of its professional qualifications that it has, to help restructure the company, to lead to a deal with its creditors and to ensure the future functioning of companies and jobs. This is what is important and what we are focused on in communication with him as an extraordinary commissioner appointed by a trade court. And that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58221	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. The next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58222	Thank you, Vice President. Dear President of the Croatian Government, I welcome you on behalf of the HSS Club and on my behalf along with your associates. In your presentation, you tried to send a message that Croatia must be a state where all businessmen are equal in front of Croatian laws and that they all have equal operating conditions. This is exactly what Agrokor was, all of these reports show that he was above the law, that the state institutions that were to control his business did not do so, or if they did not do anything. Thank you for the correctness of your... President of the Agricultural Chamber on my quest here in the Assembly to protect small suppliers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you, and for paying most of them, part of it still isn't because they went through the producer of the buyouts that didn't pay off everything. But the fact is that they were not even in the game because they could neither reach the state agricultural land, we heard that Agrokor came to Vupik and thus state agricultural land and did not respect all the conditions through investment. We also heard that most companies within the framework of Agrokor were responding to HBOR and they received loans. Although your government, or your ministers, had to mean that it was already a company in financial problems and that they did not have credit ratings to get credit until on the other hand our family farms could get credit, they entered into blockades, more than 50,000 family farms were blocked, partly because of Agrokor and they lost confidence that the same players were leading society and the state in the same way. And so the question is whether anyone will answer because 100,000 pages of the file, 20 years of the process, is the question of whether anyone will end up in jail and our family farms are blocked and ruined. The Croatian team beat 4:1 yesterday, I congratulate them, for changing the menu and the expert team and restoring the player's confidence in both the team and the headquarters. The message is, we need more of that happy news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58223	I would like to thank Mr. Vlaovic for the replica and reply of the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58224	Okay. Here is a football dictionary, respected colleague Vlaovic, by activating this law, the coach has also changed if you want in this largest company, not because it was wanted, but because it was necessary. I am pleased that your optics of the role of family farms and small suppliers are significantly different from what Mr Bernardic exhibited this morning. He almost watched what would result in a religious council, implying that small farmers and small suppliers should be eliminated. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's what that sounded like. So quite the opposite of what the goal is, so to protect those who are the most frigid, fragile in this process. As for the overall effect of this whole process, I called it purgatory in one session of the government. And we entered this process to clear up everything that could have been disputed, which could have been wrong, which was not in accordance with business practice, which was not in accordance with the legal frameworks. And we're going into that process. Now it's just a question of how anyone from different optics looks at the process. I look at him completely open, calmly so I can't be more calm. Unconnected to anything that's been before with the responsibility I have today, to use it for transformation, and I'm doing it. And you have the opportunity to participate in this process. And you had in the final line of consultation when the law worked to make the framework suitable for such transformation. That's what we're gonna keep going on, that's what we're working on. The effect on small farmers is positive and you know it, you're aware of it. You're aware of that. We'll do anything to be long-term quality to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58225	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Davor Bernardić who already has one warning, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58226	This Regulation shall enter Look, Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, you can insult me as much as you want, but don't insult Croatian farmers, make fun of them as you did in the case of desire and thus directly, directly here not only but spread the words, so to speak, spread the lies. Spread lies. You said here today that Lex Agrokor was written, that you didn't know it was going to go off, please. It was activated by Todorovic himself. So how come you're not embarrassed? So why are you spreading those lies? You said we don't know if it will activate and I activated Todoric. Do not belittle Croatian farmers again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58227	Dear colleague Bernardić, therefore you really have enough experience in the Croatian Parliament and you know very well when you can use certain tools and institutes. This breach of the Rules of Procedure really did not need you, given all the above, yet you are the strongest opposition parties, I will not give you a warning because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure so that you may not lose your right to the word in the next debate, but I really ask you to stay away from such and similar behaviour in the future. I understand that this is a stage, that this is a political ring and that everyone uses their fighting style but let's not go under the belt. Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58228	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, I'd like to share some thoughts with you. It's very interesting that there are still some who haven't realized that this law as they call it lex Agrokor is activated in exactly the same way as the Act on Pre-Process settlement. So that's it. But what surprised me even more, after 200 discussions held today in the Parliament in the six hours, no one has called in any word for the revised Agrokor financial report. Where are the facts? Where the facts are based that's come to this all that's come to pass. ... [[Pernar, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58229	Dear colleague Pernar, please don't break in to the speaker as he speaks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58230	You see, my colleague, in this House, it's very difficult to discuss when a man tries to argue with arguments, and when you read hundreds of pages of material, then those who don't read to you, it's very difficult to discuss, but good. So it's very interesting that no one has called for a revised financial report and it's even more interesting that Agrokor has owed 2 billion and 800 million euros over the past 5 years. It's just bonds and loans. The bonds after 2012 could not be placed, so they are loans. Now, colleague Maras, where does your insolence end? Where's the end of your insolence asking you? ... Comrade Maras, I kept my mouth shut while you were talking. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] [[/Invader Brkić: A colleague, a colleague. Stop the time.]] If you have anything to say, call me and tell me, and don't jump into my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58231	Comrade Shuker, let me do my job.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58232	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58233	Wait a minute, please. Hold on, your time is up. Comrade Maras, please don't get into the speaker's word, if you're nervous, I'll buy you coffee and have coffee and come back, and you, Comrade Shucker, don't be nervous and continue with your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58234	I'm not nervous at all, Mr. Chairman, just sometimes you'd fight for what minutes in this Vishko home, you have to raise your voice a little, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58235	Your time has stopped here is moving again, continue with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58236	Thank you very much. So, it's very interesting that these bankers, despite knowing the situation, gave me credit, and now that I've been taken a lot of time, I'll be done. The difference between the perception of some here who are rebelling and the government is, the government does not want to protect the interests of bankers who have certainly charged fat interest rather than want to protect the interests of employees and suppliers and wants to protect 200,000 jobs in such a way and that is the meaning of the whole story, and it obviously hurts someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58237	Thank you, Mr. Shucker, the Prime Minister, for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58238	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Shuker, you mentioned a revised audit carried out by one of the 4 key houses of the Prize Waterhouse Cooper, which finally gave the real state of finances in the company, which unfortunately is what it is. You also mentioned the position of banks, creditors, creditors who granted credit and under which conditions it is not bad to mention how much this contract was made in June in such circumstances, therefore in extremely unfavourable circumstances, cannot be more unfavourable when it comes to interest rates, more favourable than the company was in debt earlier when its image was nowhere near the problems in which it was found in 2017. That's something to take care of. And in this context, the money given in circumstances where it is very difficult to talk about the access of commercial banks and financial institutions should be valorised, in the position that someone is willing to give money under such circumstances. That's the point. So instead of looking at how good it is to get into the process of the extraordinary administration to get fresh money without doing it by the state, it's insinuating here, imputing some kind of arrangement, some kind of privileged information, some kind of business, I don't know exactly who it's supposed to be when it's supposed to be increased, bangs or synopsis. And that's why it's good that you emphasized this. And such a sober view can shed light.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58239	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Next replica, dear colleague Željko Lackovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58240	Thank you, Vice President. So, I want to give my support to the prime minister in his testimony to the motions for impeachment in relation to the content of this opposition request, and I want to say one thing that all of these allegations listed in the request are actually part of the criminal application filed by Mr. Todorovic against the vice president, the manager of Ramljak and the head of the Knighthead Fund. So, we are all caught in one topic that is probably neither the primary nor the most important, nor even the opposition, and especially not for political life in the Republic of Croatia, nor for economic development, and we are in this situation because in Croatia obviously it is not functioning to the sufficient extent of the government's trio. You proposed the law, there were certain objections to the legal solution. I'm going to ask Mr. Todorovic's assets to be frozen. Today he wouldn't be in London, not his plane, but let's say his 20% stake in Mercator that he had in his name. But when the procedure is initiated, what we have today in the government's motion to recall should be resolved effectively by the judiciary within 15 days. And then you shouldn't say that you have nothing to do, that you don't know who Ramljak was meeting with. And I think those 5 million kunas they got to determine the additional state's attorney's office of excellent facts, that's exactly where they're scheduled. Because here you represent the practical defense, the opposition has made an accusation and we're watching the scenario of an artificial trial. So it is yours to propose a legal solution, the Parliament to bring, and the courts need to answer all these questions on which they are asked in the application for impeachment. And I would very much like to have an effective judiciary, to put them materially, humanly, and how much it takes to put on another higher standard and to expect them to solve these priority things in short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58241	I thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Lackovic. Answer? Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister. This morning during the break, I said that Mr. Todorovic was not being prosecuted politically in Croatia. And I said he was being prosecuted by a state attorney who was here yesterday in the Croatian Parliament and I said that Mr. Todorovic was not being prosecuted, that political but criminal persecution was not being conducted. But this does not mean that politicians this time until a valid solution to open an investigation is confirmed, and until the indictment is brought, they cannot contribute and help Mr. Todorovic slowly turn his prosecution into political persecution. That is why we politicians must be very careful and very precise in declaring and leading policy and action when it comes to a very sensitive criminal procedure against Mr Todorovic. But apparently some politicians still don't understand that. Either they don't understand or they purposely want the prosecution to turn into political persecution. I don't understand that trail of his that work from MOST colleagues I have to say. And they do not recognise this fine fine fine line which of the highly positioned politicians can contribute to slowly turning this prosecution into a political persecution, as if it were not enough to warn them, a criminal complaint filed by Mr. Bozo Petrov as the president of the Croatian Parliament, which is already being read by the lawyers of Mr. Todorovic in their statements, has already been pointed out as a possible political persecution by the representatives of the most state government in Croatia. I would be interested in that, Mr. President, did you know that Mr. Petrov would file that criminal report when you found out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58243	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Nikola Grmoy's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58244	Dear Vice President, here's my esteemed colleague, Bacic, you listened to my break this morning, you hurt Article 238, because you are false. I made it clear in the break that we all agree that there are no elements of political persecution here, and in your question, you are repeating the defence of Ivica Todorovic and thus helping the defence. Tell your former ministers, former officials to sing on the committee, to say they helped Ivica Todorovic to tell this syncope they are playing to stop the disease they presented at these sessions both Mr. Penic and Mr. Kovac, who used the rifle to defend this Parliament building, so it will prove that Ivica Todorovic did not enjoy political persecution, but support. And stop repeating the defenses of Ivica Todoric, you've been helping him for many years. You've helped him enough all these years. It's time to stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58245	I thank Mr. Grumoja. Thank God we've got a voice in the assembly, so let's hear you out. My colleague Grumo, Article 238, if you find me a word of falsehood, then we will declare it a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Since this is not the case, and I have warned you before that the next abuse of the Rules of Procedure institute, abuse of the Rules of Procedure will be a warning, and a heavy heart based on Article 239. I'm giving the Rules of Procedure a heads-up. If you are not satisfied, please contact the committee responsible with the objection. We have another violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58246	Thank you, dear Vice President. Article 238 was injured because a colleague of Grmoja demeans his fellow MPs and claims what I did not say, I did not say that you, therefore, that the Bridge is pursuing political persecution, but that either does not understand, or by its action it will really turn it into political persecution, as if you did not remember, when your colleague Bozo Petrov did so, as a senior state official, filed a criminal application and on the basis of some news. Just what you're doing, the best indicator is that the investigative commission should automatically stop working as soon as it's confirmed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58247	My colleague Bačić, although there is a word of disdain in Article 238, I do not see that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. If you are not satisfied, please contact the relevant parliamentary committee, which you will receive a statement. The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister. The answer of the honourable Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58248	Dear colleague Bacic knows Mr. Grmoya when I found out about it. He was present. Is it true? Did you see how I reacted? I did maybe... Something, what you've been whispering about, man and a half. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Have I been anticipating that? What you were whispering about as a comment, what Mr. Bacic was saying was I anticipating that? What do you think? I did. And that's the important difference, and I won't comment on anything. I'm not going to comment on it, because it's the only wise thing I can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58249	I thank you for your response to Mr. Prime Minister. Give it up, thank you very much. We are moving on to the next set of replicas of the Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Martini Dalic. First came the line from a respected colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58250	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr. Vice President, that I will no longer be injuring the Rules of Procedure, while you are the chairman, because I see that you are exposed to the non-balancing pressure of the HDZ Club to make warnings to our opposition MPs, while here you have not given your colleague Bačić any notice. But I understand you, and since you've led the right way so far, I'm going to make it easier for you in the future. And my replica, i.e. the question for my colleague Dalic, is this. So, I'd like you to brief us here, and you can also inform your Prime Minister, since he said he has no idea who the owners of Agrokor bond are, to let us know when Nighthate bought the bonds in what months? Since he's... announced that in the 3rd, 4th and 5th months they bought bonds to come into this position in which they are now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not what Gordan Maras said, but it's in the text... which he has revealed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please report to us on this. So you might find it a little bit clearer to know how Nighthate got in this position in the first place. How important is the interview between Ante Ramljak and Nighthate? Secondly, tell us why you decided to give Anti Ramljak the highest and highest possible salary he received, since the law stipulates that the salary cannot be higher than the average of the Agrokor administration, but you have decided exactly that maximum salary amount for Mr Ramljak and 3 please answer us, which successful restructuring Mr Ramljak spent before Agrokor in the Republic, on which basis you and Mr Plenkovic chose to conduct the most complex restructurings in Europe this year as he himself admitted in his testimony. So what are the successful restructurings that the gentleman's been doing, that you rated that he would be the one who could do the job in Agrokor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58251	Dear Mr. Maras, I'm glad you're... And that you're saving me, but I'll remind you, I didn't tell you the first time, so I didn't tell Mr. Bacic either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we continue with such or similar behavior and you and him, you will get what you deserve from the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. The reply of the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58252	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Maras, I'm really glad that you're following up on a regular basis... That's probably good, because if you do it regularly, then I believe that in 2012, when you had a minister, you noticed that Agrokor had issued bonds and that those bonds were listed in Berlin or Dublin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Surely as you were a minister at the time, then you must know, at the moment of the issue of these bonds, Agrokor is from investors in so-called. The primary show got the money. After that, the bond is traded as securities. It's traded on stock exchanges in Dublin and Berlin, and it's traded in so-called. technology... which means directly between institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm convinced that you know it all for sure, because it would be impossible, if someone who was a minister didn't know it. And especially since he was a minister, what you said, a small economy, craftsmanship, entrepreneurship and so forth. Therefore, and by the way that you were a minister and as you know it all, then it is clear that you are referred to the way the capital market works, that you are directed that after trading on the capital market, there is no single register in which bond owners would be recorded, in which it would be possible to make an insight and at any moment know who is the owner of the bond and when who bought which bonds, because that rule is the basis of which the capital market operates. Therefore, you also had a follow-up to Bloomberg, and also a home newspaper opportunity to hear that the Knighthead representatives themselves said Agrokora bonds began shopping in January when the price was 85 cents...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58253	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his reply to the replica. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58254	Thank you, Lippa. Dear Vice President. Here we see both HDZ and SDP fighting all the time who's more responsible, we all know that both are responsible, someone less, of course... someone more. However, I would ask you a question that we have asked you on the subject of Bridge MPs which Prime Minister Plenkovic did not want to answer, we do not know, so I believe you are professional enough, and you were in the government of Jadranka Kosor so that you could answer us on both Jaska wine and Jamnica and Zvezda and Badel and all the events that were happening, you were directly involved, so I would first of all ask you about Vupik. Do you know what about Vupika, were you then Minister of Finance in the Government of Jadranka Kosor, which happened at the time, and do you know why nothing was done and why 300 million kuna in this area pulled the war damages out of Todorovic, not the state and that our pride Vukovar and the rest of the areas that remained damaged? I think we should answer the question we can't get, did Vladimir Seks quote him to the government that he was the one who put together... Mr. Pupovac, Mr. Vrdoljak and the others, or did you and Ferenchak or can you deny him? I believe that you are an honest person and that you will not show yourself here in this case as the Prime Minister who is this Parliament all the time wants to offend you if he wants to exalt himself, I know that the PR procedures from Brussels are passed, but I trust you, you said that you came from the Cetina region when you mentioned your grandfather, so I hope you will answer in this way to the public, not covered up as the Brussels diplomats do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58255	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58256	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I do not know which... turn happened here in the Croatian Parliament today, but in the last two, three weeks, we have often had a break from the opposition, and you have mostly been apostrophe as someone who is doing something, a mud, a state enemy, a traitor or a great traitor of the Croatian state, always something in agreement with Agrokor, with Todorovic, you help Todorovic, so I wonder why you did not give these 300m euros to Todorovic and why you said no, we cannot help Agrokor out of all possibilities as a state, we will not spend the money of taxpayers, we must act and go into law, we will make a proposal of a law called Colloquial Lex Agrokor and we have never stopped the breaks in the Croatian Assembly and then you are called to be the person behind everything. In particular, they spoke, and they argued by amendment to article 39 of the same law, that you were helping Knighthead, and to the damage of Sberbanka. Well, now I'm interested in whether Sberbank may have had the same opportunity as the other creditors in this roll-up loan and why you didn't give that 300m euros to Mr. Todorovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58257	I thank my colleague Anti Babic. Deputy Prime Minister's reply to Mrs. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58258	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Babic. Why Mr. Ivica Todorovic, on his request to provide him with financial support of 2.3 billion euros, received a negative response from the Croatian government, not me personally or all representatives of the Croatian Government, and not me personally, I think everyone in this assembly knows. Because it is not possible and because it is not in accordance with Croatian law. So there is no possibility in our legal system that the state can financially support a private company, except that it is owned or nationalised by that case. So I would be sure that every MP in the Croatian Parliament knows the answer to that question and would not possibly attribute it to myself, any other Prime Minister and any other member of the Government as an individual act. It is an act of respect for the laws passed in this House. As for the possibility of participation in the so-called Roll up the credit where this colloquial term has spread to our public, and without some great desire to understand the essence, the fact is that all the believers were able to participate in this which met certain criteria, which were described according to the indication of the extraordinary administration in the material that we provided to the representatives. In particular, it was able to participate in Sberbank, given the size of its demand, and as you can also see in the material that we delivered and in the loan structure itself, it was envisaged that international banks, three international banks of Sberbank, VTB and the Bank Club participated with 170 seem to me a million euros. So significantly more than it was planned for participation for bondholders in the first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58259	Thank you. Now we'll have an intervention on behalf of the motionor. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to look back, given that technically this has been looked at after the government's representative's obvious, I'm going to look back at one part of the government's testimony, which was repeated by the Prime Minister several times. Which roughly says that there is no forced imposition of an extraordinary administration, no nationalisation or authority as we misread it. However, it is the following. So at the time when Mr. Todorovic, who is otherwise the biggest culprit for this, would not have been a dilemma, signed, according to publicly available information, consent to the activation of lex Agrokor at the Commercial Court in Zagreb. The company OVUM owned by the son of Nikica Valentic and the company Perfa-was a Croatian egg manufacturer because of the default of the 9.5 million kuna debt has already been requested to launch the bankruptcy proceedings against Konzum. The accounts of several Agrokor companies were blocked and the activation of Lex Agrokor or Konzum bankruptcy could have occurred in other ways than the owner's consent. So he didn't disembark himself, he could have been otherwise decommissioned from Agrokora's management. Although Agrokor is technically not nationalised, the powers appointed by the Trade Court by an extraordinary commissioner but the Commercial Court only implements the government's political decision because the law has prescribed that he must do so when the government proposes to him someone who meets the conditions, it is therefore very clear what it is. So in Agrokor, together with the believers, it comes down to making a decision to change the ownership structure of Agrokor through a settlement because of the very recovery of his debt. It is evident from an extraordinary commissioner's efforts not to treat all the believers equally and that the debt of Agrokora is trying to solve in a way that once, a believer refuses to admit claims, one does not. Ivica Todorovic is therefore a formal owner of the company but he, in his business life or death, cannot in any way influence it. So if we're talking in alleged signs of nationalization we're talking about a duck that's not a duck but looks like a duck, votes like a duck and acts like a duck. As for the answer to question No. 5 and that's the question of equal treatment for the credentials. Sukus is the story that officials in Agrokor were selling the euro debt for 30 centres. This means that the first round of losses on the Agrockor debt has already been made. Those who have bought a debt of 30 centres can consider these conditions profitable. Those who didn't do this to them are not profitable. So Ramljak's criteria were actually designed to be financially acceptable to the believer who bought out the debt per discount and to be financially unacceptable to the original believer. It is almost as if we can adjust the tender for a commodity to a bidder who has certain technical conditions. However, the basic question of experts with long-term experience is the answer to question No. 2 who are still in March, so before the appointment and for an extraordinary commissioner, but before the adoption of Lex Agrokor meets with a series of creditors. So in whose name, in what capacity, before the judicial authority will even propose him to the Commissioner. So it is clear that Mr Ramljak was destined as an extraordinary commissioner in Agrokor and before the decision was taken by the Commercial Court and then a bit of a funny look fence that he was appointed by the court, and he reiterated for the third time that he was appointed by the Commercial Court. When it was both in law and in previous behaviour, it was clear that he came to this place with the will of the political option, by a political decision where the judicial authority made a political decision that was first translated into a proposal for appointment and before that into the law that was made in this Croatian Parliament as a political decision. So much for this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58261	Thank you. We also have a few replicas on your display. The first is the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58262	Thank you very much, Reverend Bauk. I signed up for this replica by offering your statement that Mr. Ivica Todoric is the greatest culprit for this situation. However, I think the biggest culprit for this state are the political structures and Mr. Todorovic is just their product. The biggest culprit for this situation is all the governments so far, including, of course, the SDPs that allowed all possible species to be eligible, starting with the privatisation of 0 kuna companies, starting with allowing tax evasion, as many laws that allowed tax evasion as possible, starting with Todorovic being unduly granted state subsidies every year of 200 to 300 million kuna of unmoderate loans from state banks such as HBOR, the Adriatic Bank, that the CNB course was adapted to Agror and Ivica Todorovic. Ivica Todorovic is a Frankensteing Croatian economy and society in general but he did not create himself. You all together from the SDP and HDZ have created conditions for it to appear. The only thing I can agree with you here right now is that Mr. Ivica Todorovic should have been the first to be arrested and immediately in April so that this situation might somehow be resolved by this moment then we would have some relevant information, information and if you want justice on paper. And this is what we're talking about right now while N. London, that he's the only one who's guilty, I think it's kind of shooting out of an empty rifle, but that's why there's a lot of people here who could be called for all the responsibility in all of this that we're witnessing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58263	Thank you. The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58264	Mr. Bunjac, you didn't say the only one, but the biggest one, do you know anyone bigger than him? Any major culprits who are more guilty? There isn't. This mantra of yours, which is otherwise not unique only to the Living Wall of equal guilt, etc. In this case, and in all other cases, it's completely missed. Agrokor is a HDZ child and as far as Mr. Ivica Todoric and HDZ's relations with Agrokor are concerned, I said that once and I can repeat, HDZ gave him, HDZ took him away.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58265	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58266	Dear colleague Bauk, there's one thought that's probably missed you in everything, which is that the SDP has been in power twice. Two times four. That's eight. Eight years and today we see that there was this crime in Agrokor all over the place. The question arises why didn't the SDP then do anything to investigate this crime, to process criminal charges, to do something concrete to make that monster say, stop? Well, you see, the answer to that question actually suggests the following. That it is fortunate that the break of Agrokora did not occur at a time like Zoran Milanovic a few years ago, but now that he is in power of HDZ. What if it had happened at the time of the SDP, his breakdown? Well, then you would find your colleague Bernardić in the same situation as Plenkovic, and he would sit there and explain why Todorovic had not been processed before, why they went to some malversions ahead of the elections to say things under the carpet or to create an illusion that everything worked and nothing worked. And finally, what all macroeconomics will agree on is the following. Todoric began to draw money from Agrokor only when he realized the ship was sinking. And the Todoric ship sank the moment he realized the loans couldn't be returned. And he couldn't repay the loans because the monetary system in Croatia was set up in a way that loans cannot be returned. That's why the CNB is a currency exchanger, because the interest money doesn't exist, etc. And I'm sorry that you in the SDP as much as I supported your request for the resignation of the government, at the time you were in power, did nothing about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58267	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58268	You've asked an interesting hypothetical question, and what if this crisis had happened while the SDP was in power. Probably after certain measures, they would have tents and what's left of what's usually happened, maybe not gas bottles, but maybe they would. But I think it's good to ask ourselves what would happen not to this crisis but to the whole state that the Living Wall is in power? That's a much more interesting question, and despite what the Prime Minister said today about your voters, I don't care about your voters, but I might still care about the state where you'd come to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58269	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58270	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bauk, you said that not all of the believers were treated the same, you probably alluded to the peace trades. The fact is that 58 billion kunas were announced, of which 41.2 billion were recognised and the other 16 billion were disputed. Among other things, the claims were disputed if you were referring to Sberbank, about $1.1 billion, but it was also explained why they were not involved in the extraordinary administration process, but they went to seek their claims in court. So much for the truth itself. Another thing that is incorrect, Mr Ramljak, as an extraordinary commissioner, can only have up to 3.5 million kuna under this law, all other decisions go through the religious council, so none can without a religious council. Those claims must be discussed with the religious council. And the third thing you keep repeating, and I keep denying it. Agrokor is not a HDZ child, Agrokor was created by the 1989 Law on Conversion and Privatisation, so that's when he became a shareholder society. 1989. Afterwards, of course, like all stakeholders, he participated in the market. But that's why you're the spokesman, you and your party, you're the spokesman for Ivica Todorovic. Look at the blogs from Ivica Todorovic and look at this request about the government's recall, so you'll understand, it seems to me in a few things literally copied from the blog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58271	The answer of the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58272	Thank you. In our request and the government's testimony, there is an answer to question number 6 on privileged information. So if someone is with some meetings before becoming a commissioner on the subject, someone then has business moves or business relations. Of course, it is very difficult and would not want to argue at all because we cannot independently check whether the future Commissioner met with all the believers and whether he spoke the same thing to everyone or said something to someone and some did not because he did not meet with them. You can't verify that, and we need to trust the mothers. And as for this story about the alleged similarity between us and Mr. Todorovic, I would say the following, Mr. Todorovic is away from HDZ at this moment and the SDP is at this point away from HDZ. But he's far from HDZ on this side, let's say this is HDZ, and we're far from HDZ on this side and a simple mathematical operation is seen, that we're twice as far from Mr. Todorov as HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58273	Here, I guess my colleague Babic, convinced by this visual display of asli, is now going to the next line, which is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the SDP, you need to agree one thing, which is first, or government, and then clearly the Parliament had the right when it passed the Law on the Extraordinary Administration or is in accordance with the Constitution or not in accordance with the Constitution. Namely, I don't see a fellow Pejo Grbin here all day long, I don't know why, but his back hurts, okay, if his back hurts. However, he's as much as I have information, that's what he said, filed... on constitutionality, the Law on Extraordinary Administration, and now you're telling us here in your proposal to launch trust with the Government, you're saying that the government had that element at its disposal and that you're questioning it in the Constitutional Court on the other hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the long side of what I have to tell you, you say that... Nationalization, because the owner no longer owns it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm going to remind you, that neither in bankruptcy law, that is, he's still the owner, he's just not using, he's not consummating his own rights. It is the same situation in the bankruptcy law, which you have called upon and if Agrokor had gone into bankruptcy and also Mr. Todorovic would not have consumed his ownership rights, but would have been done by the administration, the bankruptcy manager and again decided by the religious council there. Therefore, nothing in terms of ownership rights, and then nationalisation, counterpart Bauk, this Law on Extraordinary Administration with regard to the reduction, i.e. the abolition of the possibility of making available its ownership rights, Mr. Todorovic does not have. So when you say you're far, far away from Ivica Todorovic, from us from HDZ, I think you're... that you have come close to some other financial institutions, which will be further made public or represent their interests during the day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58275	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58276	Well one step we took, we're still away from Ivica Todorovic, now we just have to defend that we're not far from what you said, financial, okay, it's gonna, it's gonna be time, so it's only four and a half, it hasn't even started a technical debate yet. Yeah. Yeah. Now you've got me a little bit, because that we in the SDP have to agree, I think we need to agree on more things, but this one doesn't have to be negotiated. So this is what we've had from the beginning. Unlike the 2 parties in this assembly, one party is, we want alphabetical order, the HNS, who voted against the Emergency Administration Procedure Act, and now, especially Mr. Curaj, this may be his praise, defends him. And the second party is the Independent Lists Bridge, which was in the government, which proposed the Act on the procedure of an extraordinary administration, and now contests. And at least you and I, we talk all the time, we represent one attitude. What my colleague Grbin, sent to the Constitutional Court, will be decided by the Constitutional Court, probably after it's over a long time ago, and then may have nothing to decide on, but the whole story is actually, it can be understood, it's not mine, I've prescribed this, but I'll read it. So when business is more than business property is worth or more than that business can pay by its existence to its creditors, the only way to save businesses from paying what is owed. It's basically like that. And as it is now an attempt to reduce the debt of those who have their claims to Agror. And now someone's going to shrink 30%, someone's going to shrink 70%, and somebody might end up making money. That's the whole story of bringing her down to math.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58277	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58278	Dear colleague Bauk, you mentioned in your debate the executive power, the judicial authority and this part, in the end you mentioned the legislative one. In fact, chronologically when the Council passed the law, 2 days, and the government proposed Commissioners in those two days, the court made a decision within 2 days to 10.4. So it's all set by the rules. I don't know if you're following the sport. You know what's the biggest problem with match-fixing? Even those who are highly directed find it difficult to notice that the games are set, you know why? Because they also play by the rules. It's our right and our duty to question, even though it's the rules, the law, whether it's all done or not, so it's still been set up. You are rightly wondering how it is possible for an extraordinary commissioner to meet before the court even appoints him as an extraordinary commissioner, and before at all, a law has been passed here in Parliament. So he meets in March. I personally think that all of them are meeting, it's a trip to any meetings we don't even know about, before there's even a proposal for an extraordinary management bill here. So, it wasn't all so naive, a lot of things were brought before, and unfortunately again it was the Parliament who just had to paper-cover what had already been agreed on, it was like in that series of Voice People, when I think it's called Pokuda, when he says this we're going to conduct the contest, and then you're just going to paper-cover it. But again, I am sorry that the prime minister did not answer the question whether Commissioner Ramljak informed him that he had met before he was appointed Commissioner to meet with individual creditors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58279	Thank you very much. The answer of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58280	You find this comparison interesting with the game set, but you could explain the problem with the game you set because this is not a regular game set. It seems to me when you've already used that comparison that it's a set-up game that someone else has been betting on, and it's very easy to spot, and it's going to prove to be the one who's betting on whether he hit the score of the game or not I still think it's a game. And of course, many would like to play that game and change players, change tactics, and sometimes change sports to turn the football game into basketball, etc. The representatives in the Croatian Parliament are obliged to question the decisions made by the authorities and what affects the decisions of the executive authority, and this is what we do with this request for impeachment. We were forced to do this kind of business form, and we can remember the same thing, when on the day this contract was announced we asked for it to come to us by the prime minister or vice president, when they ignored us all day, then we brought them to the Croatian Parliament and here this morning from ten to four explain what happened and it will continue. Therefore, it is one message that a decent invitation is responded nicely and that an explanation is given and that how they led in 2007 we go on. Of course, this game is like I said it's still playing and I'm afraid it's played by some much bigger players than we can influence them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58281	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to representatives' clubs. Here's just so much orientation for, if there's not a single replica, we'll stay ten hours after the individual debates and clubs reported. But we're starting with clubs, and the first one on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club is going to be shared by a respected representative of Mrak-Taritash, and you're the only one who can do it. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58282	Thank you very much. I threw out Beus Richembergh too many last names. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the respected two ministers is our prime minister with the vice president and others are obviously resting a little bit, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to the 4.15 first club. There's a dozen clubs, so we'll see which way and how it goes. I will immediately say on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU the following, a lot of the word is used crediblely, a lot of the word is used consistently, e.g. from the club GLAS and HSU we will be credible and consistent. As we did not vote in favour of the government, as we did not vote in favour of Lex Agrokor, as we did not vote in favour of a new government that was established by the new majority, we will also express and vote in favour of the government. And now we're going to state a few reasons. You know, after the whole day's debate, there's already been a lot said, but I've been taught in politics that you should always repeat and never repeat enough times. So let's even see how this great mastodon and that great concert Agrokor came into existence. It came about because of something called crony capitalism or related capitalism, it was fed by the state, by the state because it needed it. However, when you start feeding such a thing, at some point it gets out of hand. And it was absolutely clear that Agrokor not now but long before he got out of control, that he had grown up, had not been controlled, and that something had happened to us that everyone who deals with the economy, you can't have production, processing and trade in one place. And the nature that's supposed to be out of this is supposed to be for all of us to never do it again. Croatia did not deserve this, and in Croatia it is indeed a nature-making process not to repeat itself. And for all of this let's be honest, it's not this government's fault, Agrokor is to use the words of a colleague that was created as a child of HDZ and was fed and absolutely crossed the general control options. This government was at the moment of the second or third month when it was seen what was happening to Lex Agrokora. It was absolutely a big problem. One responsible government, one responsible prime minister would tell my people about something like this we need a consensus. Our Prime Minister Plenkovic didn't think of that. He started with lex Agrokora and did not listen to what was said, he did not listen to what was warned, the whole process was not even transparent, they were absolutely different woods on the channels and we were absolutely willing most of the voted lex Agrokor. That's where they're already going this afternoon, so we went to sports, and I'm going to use a sport that's rarely mentioned in this assembly, and you're talking about sailing. No matter what regatta you run or which regatta you drive and no matter what ships you have, you know who comes first? Not the one who is the most equipped but the one who has the best tactics, the one who evaluated the first that is part of the regatta field better or the one who assessed the first that the time had come to drive this regatta field a little differently. And we're going to go to the situation that we've had and that's been going on there since April, and that's what we've got today. Indeed the newspaper, the media, we're all full of stories about Agrokor, we're full of what's been going on, why it's happening. I don't know how much it is, it would be convenient to see in the record of this House to see how much it was a break in the name of the club to talk about Agrokor. Prime Minister Plenkovic was called on, the vice-president and Economy Minister Dalic were called on to come, to answer why. Well, my people Agrokor is one of the most important things that is happening in this Croatia right now, and surely the consequences are such that we can't even look at them right now. But what consequences are we talking about? There were a number of questions that were asked, and the answers always come in a way that no one wants to answer you. There is one question that has not been asked and there is no answer to that, but I hope that at some point will answer that, and that is the following. When Commissioner Ramljak took over, he said he needed a loan of 200m to 300m euros to resuscitate, i.e. to allow Agrokor to work further. And there was a problem, because there was no one who could give that credit. He made it to an 80m-euro loan. There was a reconstruction of the government, a new government, and a billion-euro loan was taken. Why? For what? Why was a million euros taken? Why didn't he take the rest he needed? What's the team covering? What's behind that? And that's the answer that needs to be given, because at this point in time, whose hands are the future of Agrocora. So let us openly and publicly acknowledge at this time the future of Agrokora will be determined by his believers. And how in the future Agrokor will depend on them. There's also a series of objections that were on the opposition and a series of objections that are constantly being made to the opposition that we're just talking about, that I don't think we have any ideas, that we don't know what we'd do when we need something. Well, there's one answer and there's something that maybe we can just sort of agree on together. What is the national interest of the Republic of Croatia? We mentioned national interests here several times. Of course, to keep jobs, of course, to take care of our agricultural land so that we don't have some that we wouldn't want and there's another interest, which is a retail segment for which it would be very good to stay in our hands. One of the models of how it can be solved or better said models than one of the scenarios. Because when something like that happens to us, you should have a few scenarios to last. One of the scenarios could be next. Let's say through a deal from the creditors that financial institutions belong to the food sector, that suppliers belong to the retail sector, and let's say PICs sell to domestic pension funds. Why is that a screenplay? Why is it a scenario that wasn't thought about? Why is it a scenario that we wouldn't say team protects national Croatian interests. We're like the one who runs the ship and he's going his own way and he's going his own way and he doesn't even think about giving it up, and we're going to go with one single scenario, and then we're going to see how it's going to be at the end. Lex Agrokor clearly and unequivocally says this. Mr. Ivica Todorovic, with his signature, was quite theatrical before he became a blogger from London, said that he gave all these many years of his work into the hands of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and thus ended the era of Lex Agrokor, i.e. Agrodor Ivica Todorovic. In doing so, I will use the words of a columnist who said when it comes to Mr. Ivica Todorovic it is not that he is not politically persecuted, but that he is politically raised and that is indeed the case. Behind the era and Agrokora Ivica Todorovic, who now writes blogs from London, as he spent years in Kulmer's castles above the high hill above Zagreb, watched Zagreb and Croatia and worked with all those who held the lottery he wanted, now he does the same thing from London. On some occasion, he ran away from the press, sometimes not and the main topic is Mr. Ivica Todorovic's hairstyle at the moment, is the hairdresser who cut him for 30 years very unsatisfactory with the haircut he gets in London. But we return to Agror Ante Ramljak. It's about a man who's a civil servant, who's a civil servant, who now runs Agrokora. When it comes to someone who has been appointed by the state and has been given the opportunity to manage something, then everything that is good corresponds to that state, but for everything that is bad is equally appropriate. But in the context of Agrocora for things that are badly done and for things that show that they are bad, you know how they fit? Through the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And who's filling the Republic of Croatia's budget? Citizens. So, for all the failures of Mr Ante Ramljak, it will enter the wallet, in the pocket of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we will reduce what we discussed, we will reduce in what we discussed, we will reduce in this budget the part intended for health care, the part intended for education and the part intended for development. And that should be made clear and consistent. Our Prime Minister and Government have no idea why they decided to tie their future to Lex Agrokor and tie to Mr. Ante Ramljak. As long as Lex Agrokor lasts and how long Mr. Ramljak's job lasts, so will this government. So we don't imagine at any point that the vote that will be behind midnight or early in the morning or in the moment that it is, the government has enough hands, if there is, and the assumption is that, that this is the 78 faithful hands that will say that the government is doing well. However, this government has tied its future to one law, to one man, and it will last exactly how long that law will last and how long that man’s work will last. At this moment, the most powerful person in Croatia is one official, at this time the most powerful person in this sense in Croatia, a man who was installed by the Government by Mr Ante Ramljak. It would be extremely good if in one of the discussions we really got an answer as to why a billion-dollar loan was taken and no loan was taken to keep Agrokor working. But, in conclusion, indeed, we will, as we have so far consistently, use the word and vote crediblely for the government's impeachment, aware of everything we've said. However, the future of this country and the future of Croatia and the future of our budget are absolutely tied to the work of one man. The prime minister is when he was asked directly and I think today he said that he would really not be out of the budget at any time. His finance minister had not long ago relieved something a little but also Mr. Rmaljak when asked about it was very, very gentle and very, very thoughtful about it. So, half-five is, this is just the first club of about 10 clubs, I'm sure all the clubs will argue. In some parts we will repeat ourselves, but no matter how we repeat ourselves, we need to say loudly, first to the goal of sailing, comes the one who initially recognized how best to sail or who recognized the conditions had changed along the way, so according to these conditions he went further. A lot, a lot of conditions have changed just need to be recognized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58283	12 clubs But now we're going to move on to the replicas that there's plenty. [[I'm sorry, my apologies, 12 clubs.]] First of all, he's a respected representative of Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58284	Thank you very much Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, you asked yourself in your presentation why it was not possible to do what we are asking ourselves today all the time, which is that Croatia and its investors have an interest in keeping companies owned by Croatian investors, to keep the Croatian country in agriculture under the influence of the companies that are here. Yes Croatian water also, sources around St. Jane, St. John's. Jani are also under our influence. And which is why the Government of Andrej Plenkovic chose a model in which, for relatively small money, when you look at all these values, she decided to leave it to Knighthead to manage restructuring in a way that they are in charge there and they will decide tomorrow who will participate in the whole story. I agree with you, I don't think it should have been done that way, and I am particularly concerned that neither Prime Minister nor Deputy Prime Minister Dalic said in a single sentence that they guarantee that there will be no major layoffs in Agrokor. We now need to talk about our people having to have security and that we need to keep all the jobs that are present in companies in the Agrokor concert. But we didn't hear it today, I offered the prime minister that opportunity to say it here publicly, he kept it quiet. And that is why we also once again warn you and Croatian citizens that with this inaction around Agrokor or the false act around Agrokor, the government has made it possible for others to come up with too many values with little or no money and has not protected our workers and property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58285	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58286	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, we've been asking, we've been asking for a long time, and we've been getting answers exactly as someone decides to answer. It's already seen, it's already known and it's absolutely nothing new. Equally, the prime minister has this handsome habit of coming here and giving us lessons for payphones and telling us what kind of person, how anyone works, doesn't work, but he really had to come today. And here this week, the second day, to be in this House and give answers to some questions. I'm sure what you're wondering, the answers won't get us. And in the beginning, really, when there was an explanation if you remember lex Agrokor well, one of the reasons was keeping jobs. I'm afraid that in a particular case it was a fig leaf because it sounded good to everyone and everyone said so we're doing it for a certain reason. Well, Agrokor wasn't then a company that wouldn't find a buyer on the market for certain parts. It wasn't a company where we decided to recognize national interests so we could say what national interests are and what we're going to protect and what we're not. No, we entered the Lex Agrokor and you and I, we spoke here, pointed out, but it's always like that for you. We speak, we indicate, by ruling the devices as they please and then later when they conclude that they were supposed to listen to us, come or give up the law or change what we warned them about. In this case, here's the prime minister's decision, half five, it's really plenty of time and I have to say patiently he listened to everything he was, obviously he decided to take a break and come to this second part and maybe we'll get some answers to the questions we're asking eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58287	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58288	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Taritash, it's actually strange how you act like Agrokor is a state-owned company where someone could have ordered that owner to do so. That's what he was supposed to do. He was expecting solutions. When you say why this billion-and-60 million-euro loan was taken. So it says nicely in the explanation that if you have read, obviously you are not point 4. where it is said that the new funding is based on the decision of the religious council, etc., made that in fact part of the old debt is being refinanced, there are new funds to be provided for further business, which includes 100 million euros for suppliers who participated in the whole process, so that there is a continued supply of goods and everything, there is no need for this mystification. So this company that started to fall asleep, who didn't even know how much debt it had, and who's going to give such a nice-eyed company some money in case you don't have a model that you're going to long-term conspiracy the whole story and that the company does, the point is that it's working and it's creating profit and it's creating value that it could actually serve what you should have thought about a long time ago when there was a lot of guarantees, huge liabilities, etc. So there's an explanation, it says nice, obviously you haven't read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58289	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58290	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Peric, I would never dare tell you that you have not read anything. Maybe she'd say if we'd read something and read it differently but if you hadn't read something, you wouldn't have dared, but that's the way either of us communicates. The fact was borrowed a billion-euro loan and several million euros. 500 million from that loan were used against the provisions of lex Agrokor for old debts. And that should be made clear. That's what happened with that loan. And that's the answer, thank you very much for saying something about it, so I can say that, that's what I wanted to hear from the prime minister or vice president why that is. It is certain that Agrokor was a private company until Mr. Ivica Todoric gave it up to the provisions of Lex Agrokor, he told Croatian citizens. After that, the state is absolutely standing through its commissioner and, of course, Agrokor was no longer credited, but someone behind whom the state stood. For the wrong decisions of Mr. Ante Ramljak who manages it, who will answer? Not Ivica Todoric. It will fit from the Republic of Croatia's budget and should be made clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58291	The next replica is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, you said the issue of Agrokor is a first-rate economic but political issue. Unfortunately, it's also apostrophe, and I want to further underline it. As representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian public as you said the full budget of the Republic of Croatia, we cannot get answers to the questions we ask again. I listened carefully to the prime minister, I listened to his answers to the replicas, and we didn't get any answers but we got a lot of personal qualifications who is who, who is who and who is who is who. But no answer, no concrete answer has been received from him or from the Deputy Prime Minister. I agree that there should be consensus in these matters. But the consensus that HDZ offers, when HDZ talks about consensus, does not mean and does not involve conversation but involves blind support for what they intend to do. And blind support can't be given especially if we can't even get answers to questions not just in this case, we can't get answers to parliamentary questions. I've had a few that's been waiting months for an answer. We warned, we suggested, we talked, we pointed out, did the Prime Minister or the Government or anyone who could deny us that we were concerned in this situation? Because I am concerned, as you said, the fate of Agrokor will reflect not only on this government, not on the political future of the prime minister, but on the future of all Croatia, and that is why I am concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58293	The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58294	Thank you very much. That's exactly how counterpart Hajdukovic, so we wouldn't be having this discussion just to get a little better time in some media or worse. We are discussing this for the simple reason that we are responsibly understanding our work, and because we are taking account of the problem that is with Agrokora and we want to get some answers because the consequences of all this will be decades, that's for sure. But the answers we get on the hood, and here's the afternoon, and I can use it to say, my son when he was 3 years old, and when he did something about the computer that was absolutely inappropriate, and when I asked him, so you knew you couldn't do it, I did, so why did you do it, he answered, I don't understand the question. Well, I feel more and more often here that we are talking and that in the answers we get as my son answered I don't understand the question, but the answers are as if they didn't understand the questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58295	The next replica and respected representative Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, in your debate, you said that the future of this country was put into Mr Ramljak's hands and that the government, or the state budget, would be responsible for his mistakes. However, after your debate, I may be a little vague whether you think Ante Ramljak is already now or think we can see whether he will be a commissioner or a embezzler at the end of this whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58297	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58298	Thank you very much for asking. I'm one of those guys who's an absolute bad prognosis, so even the game, I misprognosisd yesterday. I misprognosed, I said on behalf of the club I'd speak at 2:00, and here I was talking at 4:00, and it's all about it because somehow I don't think it's going to end well. And this debate today is for that reason, and we have to discuss, we have to say, we have to say, we have to say what's holding us back not to say that one day we already told you. Because one day, the responsibility for it will be all together, but we're all carrying it. And when it's a matter of consensus, so there's no opposition and it says here I am, but they're ruling those who say my people are facing a problem, this is one big problem that we can all agree on. And let's try to figure out what kind of solution this problem is. If that were the case in Lex Agrokor, we'd be on the weekend after noon or after one, and those colleagues sitting behind my back, who rightly gave them Martinje something that part of their culture would already be slowly prepared there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58299	Thank you. And now it will be replicated by the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. We have different worlds, and we'll probably, or we'll certainly vote differently, you'll vote against the government, I'll vote for it. However, I appreciate you saying that the problem here is systemic. So, as you've called it, crown or partner or clientelistic capitalism, or if you want a problem that from an agreed economy in socialism, we didn't go into a clean system of free market, but again into one agreed economy of clientelistic capitalism. But that's really the problem for all of us no matter where we're strangers. Here you were, for example, part of a government where, for example, when it comes to energy, it braked for example to build an LNG terminal. It's the same obvious because of some clientelistic capitalism. You may not be personally responsible, but you know what I'm talking about. And I think that's what we have to face today, not by partying together, but by really those who are on the side of democracy and the free market, to fight it. And I don't think I agree here that this issue about Agrokor is going to be a defining moment. The defining moment will be by me, for example, that construction of LNG. And I see the Ministers here, and I know he's really working on it. Here are the European Union funds, and we need to support it, because we have little time and we really need it regardless of party membership to face and combat this clientelistic capitalism, that we really have a free market. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58301	Thank you. The answer of Honorable MPs Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58302	Thank you very much. We're really sitting on different sides of this assembly, and we're world-famous. But there are some things we can agree on, and this is one of the things that I absolutely agree on. In my debate, I have very clearly structured a way to say the introduction of why it is and to use this once again. That can't happen anymore. ... It can't be out of this anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's like that movie I often mention when a snake lifts up, a monkey lifts up a rock, sees a snake, falls unconscious. The first time you can, but the second time a monkey lifts a stone, he sees a snake faint again, and now something's wrong. Therefore,... It's supposed to be like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is not a single investment that is good for this country, for which no consensus should be reached and it should be. See when the laws that are, say, technical come, that advances. You'll never see from this side that something red. We vote for it because we think it's better. Among other things, one law on strategic investment will soon come to the Parliament and I have no problem, I really have no problem seeing that a step forward to say it clearly, to clearly articulate it, nor do we have that in the club GLASA and HSU. But I have a problem and I want to point out what I think is wrong. And this debate is in that direction and we agree on this and I see that we can agree on something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58303	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58304	Thank you, colleagues, Mrak-Taritash. You in the opening part expressed concern and said that we should have devoted more time to agreeing with the opposition and that we should have had one consensus. I agree, and that would have been great if that were the case, but I remind you that on 31.3. we discussed this law, that at 6:30 p.m., we passed this law, and that an extraordinary commissioner entered that company about 8 p.m. at 10.4 p.m. I remind you that by the 15th, all the wages were to be paid, and on the 16th, we had Easter and Easter Monday and that they should have been full. Yesterday’s report on the implementation of the budget would not have been the same if we had failed to do so and the law had not been passed. And there's something else I remind you of. In April there were members and positions and opposition engaged in local elections and three times you mentioned well remember that in the debate most of the opposition law did not even read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58305	The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58306	Well, there's actually one respectable colleague problem. I've said it before, I'm your nerd. I have this problem that I'm reading and I'm having a really hard time going out for a pay phone that I don't have this block, you know when you see this block, and there's all the debates that are, I read and prepare. And now who has read, has not read less, but what is important is to remember January's opposition to Minister Maric's question that he is rumored to be with Agrokor that there is a problem and Minister Maric says there is no problem, so the issue is repeated several times and there is no problem. It felt, it was known to be a problem. So don't call the opposition to consensus, the consensus calls for responsible authority, the responsible prime minister who comes and says my people have a problem, the problem is huge proportions, the problem is huge consequences, let's sit down. As the prime minister called for the opposition when the problem and the results of the court related to arbitration in Slovenia, the entire opposition responded, the meeting was day by day, came and was constructive. It wouldn't be a problem if he called for it either, but the first thing he ignored was the problem, and then when he crossed the control scale, it went with one law, when the law came into procedure, of course, that no one listened to this side of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58307	And the last replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58308	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. I answered because you said inaccuracy one. So you said that Mr. Ramljak had appointed a state and that all his missed decisions would be in line with the state's budget. So it's just not like that. Mr. Ramljak has appointed a court only on the government's proposal, just as the court also appoints a creditor of bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings that you of the opposition have advocated. The only difference is who's proposing, nothing else. So what you said to the analogy would mean that for all the bad decisions of the bankruptcy manager, the state would be in charge of what is not. So all this stuff you said has nothing to do with what comes out of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58309	The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58310	Oh, mate, it's absolutely clear what we're talking about. Of course she didn't appoint a state, he named it on the government's proposal court. As far as I know, that court is in the Republic of Croatia and it's not in another state. So it's unequivocal and it's absolutely clear this is Agrokor run by Mr. Ante Ramljak and so it is for both his and his. Watch out, why rule say what he's doing is good, great, and it'll end well, let's hear it. We didn't hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58311	Thank you very much. We will now go to another club of representatives, which is SDP's Club of Representatives in the name of which the distinguished representative Siniša Hajdaš Doncic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58312	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm sorry there's no His Majesty here right now, but we're gonna have a good conversation. No, I don't understand that a man needs some, that's fine. [[Let's not do this.]] I'm just saying I'm sorry for nothing else. Why did the SDP launch the government's impeachment? For a very simple reason, because we would never know how many Agrokor advisors there are now, for example, how many healthy income tissues we call it so it will be spent on various consultants and never get 17 text cards. So this first is some report let's call this report by the government of the Republic of Croatia on what's going on in Agrokor. And here, I'm glad there are some facts. So I quote Andrej Plenkovic "The Trade Court appointed Mr. Anta Ramljak on 7 April, 10 April", then we have one answer where Ante Ramljak himself corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and says that he met on 30 March 2017 with a younger analyst from the Knighthead Fund. Then the Knighthead Fund is 1.1.2017. doesn't have any Agrokora bonds, so these are facts. I absolutely do not exclude that anyone in developed liberal capitalism is not trading on the secondary debt market, and the secondary debt market at that time began trading with Agrokor bonds. Otherwise, just so colleagues and colleagues know, so it's a... fund or we'll be Croatian, so we'll translate it as a scavenger fund because it's actually the only correct proposal, although I can see Mr. Plenkovic disagrees with that proposal and translation, but it's actually an authentic interpretation of the English word, you know, otherwise you know what? On the purchase of the debt of Argentina. You know how that ended? So right now he's still in the lawsuit, suing Argentina. And that's why when we say that the government had software, I say soft direct state intervention, so I don't mean subsidies, I don't mean state grants, I don't mean capitalisation, because it's the final stage of state interventionism, but I mean radical change of the framework of bankruptcy law itself, which we don't say will happen, but there are possible lawsuits. And you know why possible lawsuits? Because by this law, which is something between bankruptcy and bankruptcy, you have allowed the Commissioner this time to build creditors, so some say you can participate, others say you cannot participate. And what's most interesting about this whole story, and I hope you're all dealing with facts, is that we don't have a permanent religious council right now, but we have a temporary religious council actually chosen by Ramljak. You know how he chose it? Because they funded it, that's what we're talking about. So when we asked if there was, so purely well-intentioned because we got answers that were very interesting, if someone had privileged information, if someone had shared that information before Lex, so it was actually a very clear and simple question. So we have a temporary religious council chosen by Ramljak and actually controlled by Ramljak until the election of a permanent religious council. So that's the key question. Okay, small suppliers have been paid off, but in this answer I don't see what's going to happen to the second and third order of suppliers, so who's actually going to make a decision about the amount of the debt payment, or let's say what happens to Leda's assets, let's say it's worth 25, non-essential, and it's on the collateral at 100. And a third of the property is located outside Croatia, I'm talking about these factories. So I didn't see anywhere where there was some plan for Croatian... Because the process is generally not public, so I say this is the first document that the government has produced where it has tried to answer some questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another thing that pleases me, and in fact, it's kind of easy to make me laugh and actually Commissioner Ante Ramljak who says that everyone will agree, I don't know how, because basically for me, the personal interests of the company and the protection of their own position are always sort of the basic thought of the whole business and the process, why would they give it up, someone 50% someone 70%. So we still don't have a model to solve the settlement. You noticed another paradox like this, that it started trading on the Zagreb Stock Exchange with Agrokor shares and companies. What's the question? So why now, why at one point was trade stopped and at one point was released again? Agrokor's company store, I'm talking. So it absolutely doesn't matter, so if the company's worth it, it doesn't matter, it's 3 and it's 15 or 25 if the debt comes in both cases, so.../The speaker doesn't get any more reasonable./... the company becomes worthless. Now, I'm asking the same questions again. Is it worth it to someone if they know how this situation is going to develop? So this is the same case now repeated, as it happened with Mr. Ramljak and privileged information. So, just a questionnaire, so the same case is currently happening on the securities market. So if someone knows what it's worth or it's gonna be worth, they're gonna let the aces of trade out as soon as there's some information that neither the MPs nor the public know about it. So that's why I'm going back to where I started because this whole story comes down to one dude capitalism, so where we have interesting lobbys, we have godmothers, we have someone to protect and calm down, and I don't think it's gonna happen again, that someone can be allowed to take what's left of the property. That is why we say that the government does not work in the interests of citizens but works in the interests of various stakeholders. We see it in the SDP and we are trying to fight it in the only way that is right now and that is in Parliament. It's in Parliament, I don't know what other way. So this is a free space so we can talk without overdoing. Now, I see that some MPs have a problem with what we've stated. I don't consider the HDZ representatives here. They have to vote for their prime minister anyway. But let's just say I have a question for HNS deputies, do you think this government deserves further need and support, do you support the appointment of radical extremists to advisory posts in ministries? Do you support, colleagues from the HNS, the refusal to ratify the Istanbul Convention? Do you support that schools will not teach civil-health education? Do you support it when HDZ says for itself that it manages public television? Or a question for colleagues from the national minorities. Do you support aggressive attacks on any attempt to promote minority rights? Or do you support a party that, then, or some branches complain that it is necessary to disable the return of Serbs to Knin? So that's a question for you. And finally, a general question for all MPs, do you support this government policy of the Republic of Croatia, which is not supported by 80% of citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58313	Thank you. It has quite a number of replicas again, the first respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hajdash, meaning at the beginning of your debate, you have actually commented on this great unwillingness of the ruling to accept criticism and these comments from the other side of the assembly that our criticisms are completely unwarranted. But it's actually if you look at it is one of those key differences between the government and the previous ones, especially the one run by the SDP. So, if she showed up at the expense of the government run by the SDP, our government was pretty critical and we mainly solved these problems. We've had quite a number of ministers who've actually left because of some kind of transgression that we've been perceiving. But it's a kind of criticism and level of democracy that I don't think we can expect here, so here's how much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58315	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58316	I'll be very brief. I agree with my colleague Glavasevic, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58317	It's about transgressions. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58318	Thank you very much. In order to understand better, in essence, the interim religious council which is now run by the company with the Commissioner who de facto has all the roles and now I think that it has even become a religious council, as it is named by law, the Commissioner determines the groups that present certain believers in the religious council. So you have small ones, they've determined a group, or Ramljak has determined a group of up to 100,000 kunas. Which is why 100 thousand kunas are unclear to anyone, how he was chosen is not clear to anyone. Large suppliers over 100,000 kuna have also one. The supplier's creditors have one, the bond owners have one and the creditors have one directly, the banks, or the Agrokor financial institutions have one. So it's about Sberbanca, it's about Knighthead, it's about Marica Vidaković or Kras, it's about a gentleman who's a little bit of cattle, a farmer, a cattleman, who deals with the end of Bjelovar. And it's about, who's 5? So Knighthead, that's it, Who is it, the missing fifth? [[Intruder Rainer: Let's go from the beginning.]] So we have Knighthead, we have Sberbank, we have Marica Vidaković, we have Rajic, we don't have Zagreb Bank, I found the 5th. Zagreb Bank. Now look at the credit arrangement that the religious council approved. Knighthead and Zagrebačka banka have approved their own credit arrangement. Is that saying anything to you, Mr. Hajdash?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58319	Thank you very much. Here's his last name. Here you are, Your Honor, Mr. Highdash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58320	... Yes, yes, so we're going back to the beginning, and that's that, therefore, the interim Religious Council actually appointed Mr. Ramljak, so they're controlling him and Mr. Ramljak is controlling them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's what he's telling me, but thank you for this wording.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58321	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58322	Dear fellow Doncic, you are criticising the consequences and the result is the way the government, let's say you faced the problem it was in. However, every question, every problem must always be solved by the cause. In this whole story this lex Agrokor was actually just one maneuver to cover up a deeper problem. And the deeper problem was the broad level of crime that Todorovic was doing. And what's even scarier is that all state institutions were his extended arm. And under such conditions and circumstances cannot only Todoric be blamed, guilt must fall on those who made it possible for him. And unfortunately, those who allowed him to sit in the SDP administrations at the same time. And here we are actually coming to the point that when the SDP accuses the HDZ of guilt and the HDZ accuses the SDP that they were, in fact, both of you were right when you accuse each other of co-responsibility in the creation of what is going to be known today as Agrokor. And I wish you had a single dose of self-criticity because in every party where the comrades are, there's also a dose of self-critism, but unfortunately there's only criticism in you, there's only criticism. And that's why I find your approach a little bit, I'd dare say subjective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58323	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58324	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Hajdash-Doncic, well, actually, our prime minister has a real right when he says there's collective amnesia. If it was in January 2017 and first we know that Agrokor and Agrokor's companies were on the stock market, so they were funded and the rest. This Regulation shall enter into force on the Moody's downgraded B2 to B3. The value of the bond fell by 71% of the nominal value on the basis of their findings in February. After that it happens that management is trying to do something, but again the rating on Caa1, so drastically on so much that the value has dropped to 25 cents. And you claim that nothing is happening on the market, so that was on the market. Well, anyone could have bought those values, so you could have bought them in that case. If that's how you could have predicted all those events that would happen later. After the law came into force, you had monthly reports. In this, in each of these reports there was actually a procedure that seemed, at which speed it seemed, and eventually all these people needed 78 or how many companies to process, check and take time and knowledge. So, all of what you're saying is that they're doing 140 or already as many experts, so I think that's perfect.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58325	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Hajdash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58326	Dear colleague, I may have been able to buy bonds to say in January or February I had coffee with Ramljak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58327	The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58328	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have to replicate to my colleague Hajdash because he was wrong, so today we've heard from other speakers that all the small suppliers have been paid off. Unfortunately, that's not true. A significant part of the small suppliers did business through the so-called so-called so-called so-called business. Production organisers. Part of these production organisers got the money, and by the moss those who were major HDZ donors. Unfortunately, they did not pay off their small suppliers, so let's say the sheepmen who produce cheese remain five and a half million kunas are due to them, fruit and vegetable producers over two million kunas. One company composed of Quaestus Fund over 20 million kuna debt to small fruit and vegetable producers. So it's not true that all the small suppliers are paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58329	The answer of Honorable Representative Hajdash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58330	Thank you for correcting me. You're right when I said it or said it, I was talking to those directly, so those who had direct contracts with Agrokor's companies, and we forgot actually those who work for some of their suppliers who are small and you're right and thank you for doing something in my sense that helped a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58331	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58332	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said one interesting thing in your speech, and it's about stock trading. If you remember correctly when I spoke the night it was the first time the regulator was supposed to react before Lex Agrokor. The regulator knew what was going on back then, the regulator was supposed to react on the market, stop trading shares. But you know what makes me more surprised? Why did they release a few days ago trading when stock prices dropped 90%. Why did they let it go? Shouldn't they have waited when they had already seen what the situation was to make a settlement. When a settlement is made then you know in which direction the company is going, then you know if someone enters the ownership structure, if a strategic partner is found when a settlement happens, then you don't have such a sudden drop in stock values, then you know that the company, and we hope that it will survive after the deal, that it will have some strategic partners whether it will be suppliers, whether it will be someone else or a third. And then whoever holds those values won't put that kind of pressure on the market to sell them out and cause the company to drop 90 percent. The question is, why are they letting it go now? Why didn't they wait for a settlement? They know what the situation is. In the first month nothing would have happened, nothing would have happened. And in the first month when a settlement was made there wouldn't be such a drop in stock prices, they wouldn't lose so much at certain values, and then actually, there might be some slight correction. But I have to admit that late reaction first when it happens, and we know that these companies are who? The pit, Ledo, the star of the only company that brings us some kind of positive... the value, the only companies that can ultimately generate a positive cash fleet, means that they can repay those certain debts and those that have at least certain duties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they let them simply sink 90% now in these few days. I have to admit, thank you for that information, but I was amazed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58333	The answer of Honorable Representative Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58334	I will answer my colleague Lalovac and tell him that he is actually right and your first exposure a few months ago and today points to one I will say the important problem of the functioning of Croatia as let's say some organized society that should have some regulators. But I'm going to answer that maybe someone knows how the deal's gonna go, so stock trading is allowed. I'm saying maybe because otherwise what would you do if you were a regulator? I'm sure they'd wait for the end of the bargain, because that's the only thing that's right. That makes sense. And that's why when I pointed it out as the third most important thing I'm going to say in this section regarding the future of Agrokor, we're not going back to the past that Mr. Pernar mentioned here. I think she's more or less famous and how that concert came about and what it was and who all the stakeholders were. So you need to see what's left of it. So, the next way a very simple replacement of ownership can happen to you through trading now shares, because it's not the waiting end, the end of the bargain. This is a key financial problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58335	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative of Ivan Willibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58336	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Doncic, here you have had the opportunity to see during the debate today how Prime Minister Plenkovic praised, forged in the sky lex Agrokor and all that comes as lex Agrokor, boasting how he saved his jobs. However, on several questions from different sides of the assembly about what would be in a year when the law expired cunningly refused to answer. So I'm afraid today we don't have any concrete answers or guarantees about what will happen. We have expressed our expectations, unfortunately black expectations. But if I may ask what your expectations are, what will happen when 15 months pass? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58337	The answer of Honorable Representative Hajdash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58338	To be honest, I think we all have too little information, no one is involved in the current proceedings that he's doing, I'm going to say Deputy Mr. Ramljak. And what can happen, look at the deal will only come to only then the second one opens to say the cycle. In a settlement, not everyone can be happy. And those who will be dissatisfied, financially speaking, will begin to sue. And unfortunately for us, therefore, there is an objective fear precisely because of the potential, I say state interventionism, because you've changed a certain word I'm going to say legal regulation and you've disrupted the market. So they won't be worth it anymore, they weren't worth the laws that were up until that day. And you put some of them in a position of privilege, some of them in the same position. And all those who feel like they're gonna say they're financially damaged in the deal they're gonna make, so they're probably gonna sue, they're gonna sue. That'll be a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58339	Thank you very much. Now we will go to the next Club of Representatives and that is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58340	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear Minister. It is clear that the HDZ Representatives' Club will not support this proposal to launch the process of responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would have just remembered at first, if this one had said a modest SDP act, it would have been the result of their dissatisfaction, which, after a diary in Croatia, announced the roll up contract. And then because of the dissatisfaction that the Prime Minister didn't come to the Parliament at the same time, it went into the process of this motion, the issues of government responsibility. Before I say anything else, I would only mention that in the 11 months of the term of this assembly, if we subtract 3 months from the Parliament, so, in the 8 months before Andrej Plenkovic to the Parliament, he was 17 times, today 18 times. For example, Zoran Milanovic, in his term, was 32 times in 4 years. Well, only when there is a small comparison, how much and in what way does the President of the Government respect and protect and protect the integrity of the Croatian Parliament? The second thing I wanted to say, we were 5, 6 days before it was published in the press, certain provisions roll up contracts, the Prime Minister was here in the Parliament and submitted an annual report to the government. So much for that request, which is like provoked by the government's not-coming president. The other thing I'm trying to say is, I don't think the SDP knows what it does on the right. Namely, the SDP said the government had several ways at its disposal, several methods of how and how to solve the crisis in the Agrokor concert. Among other things, you yourself claim that there is a possibility of state interventionism. Before you wrote this article, Mr. Grbin submitted to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that the Government has already been shown to do so, a constitutional complaint that it is administrative state interventionism, which severely violates the right of ownership, etc., etc. They are intruding into ownership rights and that the state should not intervene in this way. So now answer if then the government was right to propose to the Parliament, and the Parliament to adopt, which it did or did not have the right to do as Mr. Grbin thinks. I'm saying this isn't state interventionism. Because there is still jurisdiction over the fate of Agrokor in the hands of the court and the believers and that it is a kind of bankruptcy law. That is, if we do not trust our courts already, because, for example, the roll-up agreement, by virtue of the suit, the Sperbanka Court of Commerce confirmed it first in Zagreb, and after that, according to its appeal and the High Court of Commerce in Zagreb, and yesterday the London Court, which recognised the extraordinary administration, also appeared. And thus returned Sperbank here to Croatia, under the jurisdiction of the Croatian judiciary. So we can't talk about state interventionism here, even though there are moments in every society, in every country, when, by the principle of proportionality, the state can intervene and abolish any human right, even the right to ownership. If by touching or reducing or restricting certain rights, and property rights, it prevents damage that would go where and where at that time that constitutional category of protection of the right of ownership. But, I'm saying, I'm saying it wasn't here, because everything that happened under the law happened only after the owner voluntarily signed the implementation of the Extraordinary Administration Act. We somehow forget at which point this law was passed. This law was written and created the moment the government estimated that with existing models, which define... Right, it could not solve a possible deep crisis in the Croatian economy, which would break the Croatian economy and the Croatian financial system by applying existing laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it was estimated that existing laws couldn't do what the Emergency Administration Act did. And that's to avoid bankruptcy from 70 companies in the system of concerts. Here is the minister of justice, let him say, is it possible for the Croatian judiciary to quickly, qualityly deal with 70 new bankruptcys, which would be due to the bankruptcy of the company itself, and at that time, therefore, in early March, an open procedure was launched, i.e. a bankruptcy procedure was initiated. Thus, the law prevents bankruptcy, preventing the collapse of Agrokor, thereby and the Croatian economic system, from allowing 60,000 employees, of which 28000 in Croatia and 30 outside Croatia to continue their business, i.e. to receive wages. Small suppliers have been paid, paid in certain parts and large suppliers and it has been enabled, time has been obtained to prepare a settlement, which should be the crown of this law. That this is so best is an indicator I said yesterday that represents the murder of your lunches at the expense of this law. In fact, yesterday happened two fantastic events that follow this law. The first is that, I mentioned this earlier at a court in London, the rejected appeal by Sberbanka, which confirmed the law on the extraordinary administration and jurisdiction of the extraordinary administration, and I think the British judiciary has something to say about... law and when it comes to this part of the legislation, and on the other hand, the European Commission, let's not forget that. The European Commission said yesterday that by adopting an emergency government law, the Croatian government prevented possible systemic risks that threatened the Croatian economy, thus reducing the projections of GDP growth in Croatia from 3.2 to 2.7 at the beginning of the adoption of the law on extraordinary administration, and now that it has convinced itself that the law has obtained what it returned those projections for 2017 to 3.2. And now I'm going to say something about a question relating to the HDZ Club of Representatives, but first I'm going to say one more thing, when I read this proposal to me, it seemed to me that this SDP was preparing so nervously for the current morning, so he quickly shared 11 issues among his MPs, and then he practically turned these issues into this motion to launch a responsibility issue. Why? Because you're accusing the government of questions, and you didn't answer those questions yourself, you said the government did so and so and after that was wrong, it should have done this and this and now we're looking for a government recall. It's who you were preparing for the current morning to quickly raise 11 questions and you're looking for the government's responsibility because you ask her or you don't know what she did to me that's terribly surprising that you don't know what the government did, but if you know what she did, then you should have said it did it wrong and wrote it down and stand behind it. And not your president here at this pay phone to let him say what he wants. I believe that neither of you SDP representatives knew what Mr Bernardic was going to say here because you only knew the questions of these 11 questions that make you call the government a bad deal. But now I'm going to say to what I just said, so you're asking if the subsequent amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to article 39 of the Law favored the Knighthead Fund? I think there's a lot of good lawyers in your club and people who follow and know something about this. You really didn't need this kind of ruse, if you wrote an article in the 40th, then it might still hold water, but we didn't give the amendment to that article. We, gentlemen, have given the amendment to Article 39(3) which speaks of something else, which is that all those creditors who give credit after opening the extraordinary administration procedure will later be that these loans will have super senior status. That's what the original law said. And we said at the club we went one step further, if after that loan Agrokor goes into bankruptcy then he'll have super senior status again that we said. But that article does not build a roll up on that amendment, but it is built on Article 40 of the Law. The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice’) of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice’) of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice’) of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice’). I am saying that this is how the Commercial Court in Zagreb confirmed, by refusing the Sberbanke suit and it was confirmed by the High Commercial Court in Zagreb, and therefore this is unacceptable that you could write something like this when it was so simple to read that I, who am not a lawyer, could read it to you by following what can be read in public, and then clearly in the reports that every month the extraordinary administration publishes and afterwards publishes the Ministry of Economy. As for when I'm talking about the roll-up contract and what's been made available to anyone, how much we could read from the press the Knightehead Fund has with 40% of the bonds, and just before the Deputy Prime Minister said that it was right at your time of 2012. Agrokor issued about a billion euros in bonds. The Knighthead Fund therefore has 400 million bonds. I don't know when Knighthead made bonds through this roll of hope procedure, and I don't know at what price, but what I know is that it's very simple from that contract to conclude that out of those 400 million euros, the Knighthead Fund will be able to settle a quarter of it, so we're not talking about billions of euros. I don't know how much of it he's gonna make because I don't know what price he bought the bonds for. But by calling the roll-up contract, you put the vulture's, the scavenger funds in the same basket, and then you put the VTB in the Russian state bank, you put the Zagreb Bank, you put Goldman Sachs, you put Erste bank in the same basket, so all those creditors who gave and who participated and participated in the roll-up loan. Do you think a little further and wider than what you're saying? If these funds are what you call them, so I hope the Zagreb Bank is not the same, it has the same adjective as those funds have. I think we should be a little more careful when it comes to that. I've said it many times during the break and here in the Parliament, that I don't know at the end whose interests you represent. The workers don't, because they're getting paid. Small suppliers, the O.P.G. farmers didn't, because they settled their debts. The other believers are begging you, please don't represent us, do us any harm, we trust the extraordinary administration. I don't know, in the end it turns out that you represent the interests of Ivica Todorovic and Sberbanke by respecting everything Sberbank does as a banker, as the financial institution wants to charge its own to the last June. But if she charged it, there wouldn't be a salary to the employees, there wouldn't be a payment of the debt to the suppliers, then there wouldn't be a deal that would allow other believers to at least part of what they invested in Agrokor themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58341	Thank you very much. We'll stay till after six in the morning! This way we've got a lot of replicas, so let's take it in a row. First is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58342	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. You said there were a billion bonds. The exact data is 900 million. If you said 40% is holding Knighthead, I'll help you with a simple calculation to make it simpler. That's 360 million euros if they bought 20, 30% that's 72 to 98. If they charge all this, it's a clean profit of 280m to 300m euros. 280 to 300 million euros. On the other hand, you made it possible for Anti-Ramljak to put these people in a religious council according to his own opinion and that they themselves would approve of roll-up credit. So on the one hand, the religious council approves, they raise their hands for it, and on the other hand they give money and they secure their profits in hundreds of millions of euros. And you don't see anything controversial about it? You don't see anything controversial about these people buying bonds in second, third, fourth, maybe fifth place. You don't see anything in that either. Once they knew the information on such, look there's a good documentary about the American Stock Exchange for such things in America they used to get people to get very, very much time to rest. If it is proven that any information was available before it was made available to everyone else on the market. And that's what we're talking about and that's what this is all about, and that's why this government needs to go away. You've allowed the Americans, in this case Knighthead, to take the fate of our workers into the hands and the company where they'll end. And you can't kill anything and that's the only truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58343	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Maras, you either don't know or deliberately deceive. So neither I nor you know when and at what cost Knighthead bought the bonds, that's what I don't know. If you know how to say it right, stand by that date and say they bought it then and at that price. I think you can see how and how the Agrokor bonds moved. That's one thing. Secondly, explain to the entire Croatian public how this fund will settle 400m euros in bonds? That's what you're explaining to me with a roll of hope. When he entered the roll-up with only 100 million, so he based that contract that was carefully approved by the creditors, not the government, not the government. ... It's not true, then you don't know [[- Intruder Maras, you can't hear.]] Just before, you couldn't remember which 5 of the believers were, so five members [[Let's not throw it away.]] The religious council, including the Zagreb Bank, among which everyone else has agreed. [[Don't throw it away.]] Mr. Vice President, may my time be stopped while you and Gordan agree whether to let me speak So what Knighthead can make on the basis of a roll of hope is at 100m euros the difference between what he bought and what will later be worth it when the process is completed. [[Intruder Reiner: Comrade Maras, please don't throw away!]] The remaining amount that did not enter the roll up will follow the fate of the settlements as will other loans from the Zagreb Bank and the Business Bank and Raiffeisen Bank and the Sberbanke will be reduced by as much as the amounts of loans from all other financial institutions that have enabled this roll up loan. And all who were believers, the financial creditors of Agrokora were invited to participate, that they were all involved, and Sberbank couldn't possibly have Knighthead invested 100 but would have been like his share in the roll-up loan itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58345	Thank you. The next one is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58346	The esteemed HDZ MP, the roll-up credit, speaks a lot of himself. He's saying the unsecured credentials are out-of-date, and that's 90%. Roll up credit says that someone with 30 kunas is going to make 100 kuna plus interest, and someone who was an honest believer who delivered, say, chocolates, he's going to lose 70 from 100 kunas. See what kind of paradox that is? So someone is allowed to get 30 kuna investment of 70 kuna plus interest, and someone who delivered the goods for 100 kuna can only get 30 dollars without any interest. Ha, of course, you don't see any problem in that, it's normal for you, okay, but what's the result at the end of that roll-up loan. Will bankruptcy be avoided when it's 15 months? Well, that's an essential question, Mr. Bacic, of course not. And again, at the end, we will come to bankruptcy and we will again come to the conclusion that all Agrokor's companies will be sold and that what is profitable will continue to work for the team will be a jag, and what they will not. So what, what did we do with this law? The only thing that has been done is to change the order of collection of creditors in such a way as to elevate the Russians and all the other believers, and the vultures from America succeeded. It's this Ramljak group and Ramljak has profited from the salary of 117 thousand kuna and that's what I've already said to the bachelor counselor and that's it. And instead of saying it openly, we did it in order to please the vultures of America in order to love our friends, you're selling the fog here to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58347	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The question arises when it comes to unsecured loans, how that certain banks, just between 2011, 2012 and 2015, gave the system a billion euros without collateral and insurance, is the question. Therefore, these banks had sufficient knowledge and opportunities to verify the company they were giving such big money to. But despite the fact that they had not secured their loans they could participate in the roll order and part of these loans not entirely perhaps a tenth, perhaps a 20th of their loan later charged as a super-senior status, and not to be sued by us but to sue Agrokor in international courts, whether it is in Montenegro, whether it is in Serbia, Bosnia, whether it is in England or London and at the same time sitting in the religious council and following the fate of other creditors, in my view it is not correct. That's why, yesterday, Ante Ramljak, as an extraordinary commissioner, rejected Sberbank's claims precisely for these reasons that I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58349	Thank you very much. And so you tried for nothing, colleague Pernar, that moment you left the hall when you started talking. We're going to the next line, the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, it is no wonder that our citizens do not have faith in Croatian institutions when you say it yourself and wonder if our courts have the competence to do so many bankruptcys. So why exist if they don't? That's the first thing. Another thing, when you say and you care so much about our party and you say that in the SDP, the left doesn't know what the right is doing. And I'll ask you, do you in the government know what does left and what does right? Comrade Bačić, do you know who the president of the Croatian Forests Administration is? You know what it says in the court register, now I've listed it by Ivan Pavelic. The Supervisory Board of the Croatian Forests, strategic companies or companies owned by the Republic of Croatia are registered people appointed in 2012. The website of the Croatian Forests says there is no supervisory board, and the past expired on 19.3.2016. As far as I know, the government has appointed a board of directors in the last session, appointed the board of directors again not yet in the court register, and how do you expect me to trust a government like this that you say doesn't know what the right hand is doing, can't master anything? How can I believe they'll know how to master Agrokor if they can't get into the court register something if they can't comply with the law that we've passed here? Then all those people entrepreneurs who put those changes in the court register turn out to be fools, fools because they pay a fee to make things right, and the state doesn't. Two years a colleague doesn't have a board of directors, two years you can't just change the registration of a court register, you can't do that, and the state would run it. But trust you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58351	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58352	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic, I did not say that the Croatian judiciary cannot resolve 70 bankruptcys, but cannot resolve them in a short time, it is a major spill. In such short time solving 70 bankruptcys is not possible. How many, 4.5 trade courts in Croatia, as many as there are, eight to solve so many bankruptcys in such a short time. Certainly, the Croatian judiciary will deal with this over a certain period of time. As far as I'm concerned, you're giving me or asking me if I know who's a member of the administration or, I'm not a member of the government or I'm a minister of agriculture, I'm a parliamentary representative, and I don't know that, but I know that in that case the government acted transparently, called a tender, and chose among the registered candidates the ones who were the best, most professional, and were then appointed members of the administration. I guess it wasn't that long ago, so between the day they were appointed and after the request was filed to the commercial court to re-write the new members of the supervisory board and the board, it wasn't settled, and I don't see what the problem is, which here doesn't know what the right is doing, but it's all going through its legal procedure and I expect that maybe these days tomorrow, the day after the next week, it'll be registered in the court register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58353	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, I am pleased that you are taking care of the proposal I sent to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not show itself on the scale of my proposal, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia called on the Constitutional Court, not only mine, but also a whole series of other proposals to assess the constitutionality of the Emergency Administration Act to reject these proposals. So the government does not have the courage at all to engage in a measuring debate on content but calls on the Constitutional Court to reject without considering the proposal for an assessment of constitutionality, although it is evident that it is discriminatory law, although it is evident that it is a law which is represented by the court, the pardon sets the role of the supplier, the implementer of the government's policy, and thus violates the trinity of the authorities, although it is evident that this law in many segments violates EU rights when we talk about insolvency proceedings. And to take a picture of what the role of the court is and what control this procedure is, I'm going to give you one brief picture. Dear counterpart Bacic, state interventionism is when the government proposes and the HDZ in parliament adopts a law by which the government appoints a commissioner which the court cannot refuse. Afterwards, the commissioner appoints a provisional religious council which the court cannot refuse and then the interim religious council that a credit to a loan weighs more than a billion kunas by which no commissioner can no longer be replaced. Unless it's going to pay a billion kuna. It's a respected colleague of Bačić's, not state interventionism, which is something much, much worse than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58355	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grbin, how will the Constitutional Court judge and what decision he will make under your proposal for an assessment of constitutionality of the Emergency Administration Act, I do not know. I've been informed from the government that you've been answered on the constitutional court's request, how and in what way to judge, I don't know. I only know that in the meantime, and this you heard yesterday, based on the Sberbanke lawsuit, the court in London has recognised an extraordinary administration which in a certain way is a confirmation, clearly, does not mean that our Constitutional Court will act in this way, but which is in a certain way an indication that this law in the system of insolvency laws that resolve insolvent law. The other thing I wanted to tell you is that you and I know that the state has the right to intervene at certain times. Well, your government, you remember that, your government passed a law on loans in francs. We then voted here in the Parliament that the state intervened in the civil-legal relationship between a legal person and a natural person. In my opinion, this is more of a private property incursion than this bill of law is a law on extraordinary administration. Therefore, there are times when the state, due to the principle of proportionality to reduce or mitigate huge damage, can at some point reduce, restrict the constitution of the rights of ownership. Therefore, if the Constitutional Court confirmed such a law, I would not be surprised if I knew that before the Constitutional Court confirmed the Swiss franc loan law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58357	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58358	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, one of the key elements in our request is a loss of trust. My colleague Bačić, you know that if citizens lose their trust, then they are born of doubts, these doubts lead to reflections on some underground games, partnership and partner agreements, and in particular doubts about the actions of Deputy Prime Minister Dalic, who demonstrates the fundamental ignorance of both the Constitution and the Law on the right to access information because she continues to insist that she is not obliged to say who wrote Lex Agrokor. Therefore, under the Law on the right to access information, all bodies of the public authority, and the Ministry of Economy is a body of public authority, it is necessary to give citizens all the information they are interested in. So, for a request under the Law on the right to access information, citizens must find out who wrote lex Agrokor. If he's as good as you all praise him, then why keep a secret who's the author of that law? Minister Dalic says that it was never done, it was never said who wrote the law, so here we have another very controversial law, family law where we know exactly who wrote it, although on the Ministry's pages it says who wrote it. So I don't understand why you're keeping a secret who's the author of that law because it raises doubts about some kind of partner contract someone's gonna profit from and someone's gonna pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58359	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jovanovic, you're wrong. So last night, I watched a national television show, the Deputy Prime Minister and listened to the question of who wrote the Law on Extraordinary Administration, said the law was written by the Ministry of Economy with the cooperation of the Minister of Justice at the time was Mr. Sprlje from MOST and along with the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, at the time of the signing of the law by the President of the Croatian Government, the responsibility for this law was assumed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The moment when we as a government, the ruling majority or the Croatian Parliament, however, voted that law, we have as parliamentary representatives our integrity and we cannot now run away from the fact that we have passed the law regardless of who wrote it. The moment we adopted the law, this law becomes the law of the Republic of Croatia, which was passed by the Croatian Parliament and after that, we who voted the law and those who proposed it, and that is the Government of the Republic of Croatia for its implementation, assumes responsibility. And I don't see anything controversial... and it is also said that besides the Ministry of Economy, it has said on several occasions that both professional persons and scientists participated, that, in view of the issue of the law and everything that this law solves, the academic community has been contacted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't see anything disputed here. If the government proposed it and passed the law, it is entirely relevant to me, who helped with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58361	The next replica is the respected representative of Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58362	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, I'm actually going to look back at two quotes from your speech. First, it concerns the question of whether or not, so I'll say the following. Of course the situation was such that it was necessary to intervene and I always say so. And the government intervened and it's something that any responsible government would do and that's okay. What is the problem and what I really think is the problem and which is why I think we'll get into a situation that maybe Croatian citizens will pay out of their budget of other people's debts, it's a way of intervention and a way of implementing it. So I'm convinced and I can explain to you in detail why, that the same effect of the law could change, achieve changes in the bankruptcy law. So you could almost put all these provisions there. You could've pulled the government's intervention away, you could've left everything to the court, and I don't see any reason why the government had to stand behind the Commissioner. The government is in a situation where there's no tool for intervention, but it takes responsibility. And that's what's wrong with your legal solution. And I hope it doesn't come to that, but it's something we're exposed to, as you said by the majority's decision. We warned about that then and now. So, don't take it out of a bankrupt little segment, so say there would be 70 bankruptcys. No, I don't. All these solutions could have been there, but left to the court, left entirely to one other course of affairs, and there would be no connection with the state. You mention the English court, you refer to it, irrelevant, it will decide I'm afraid of arbitration in Washington, and when you talk about the English court, what will you do if tomorrow the English court says that Todorovic does not extradite because of political intervention of statements, government interference in proceedings, etc. Why don't you go see him and confess to him? Look, what's the problem? The problem is when the government interferes with the declaration, and there's no weapon to do anything, then it's better not to interfere. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58363	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58364	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Orsat. When all the good solutions are contained in the Banking Act, why did you change that part of the legislation and go with a pre-determined settlement? When all this was contained so well in the bankruptcy law. When the bankruptcy law can solve everything. Then I ask you why you found a hybrid, made it possible for the Pre-demand settlement law to continue to function, not to implement the bankruptcy law, to settle the debts that occurred before the pre-demand settlement was opened. And you were afraid at much smaller levels of the meaning of companies in Croatia, companies, bankruptcy. You were afraid of bankruptcy in much smaller companies in Croatia. Be careful as a hybrid as an exit to a grand pre-demand settlement, so as not to open up bankruptcy because you too were afraid of bankruptcy, because bankruptcy doesn't happen, what happens in pre-demand and what happens in this law. And that is that you can pay off certain debts that occurred before the bankruptcy itself was opened. That's the difference. It wasn't going to go into that, because it's known that through the course, the company would suddenly stop to be all employees out there, until a bankruptcy manager was found while all of this started together would be... It would be past season, GDP would collapse, small suppliers would not be paid, agricultural production would stop in Slavonia, etc., etc. They wouldn't have paid their wages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what you know very well, and that's why it didn't work out, and what's going to be the outcome, I don't know yet. But, according to what I hear from the believers and what you can imagine from all the reports that are regularly on a regular basis, that is, on a monthly basis by an extraordinary administration, I think it's going in the right direction. Whether the credentials will eventually agree on the settlement itself, but in any case it all goes in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58365	Thank you. Next line, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bačić, you have, in detail, touched on this proposal, which we are discussing today, because we have heard several times today that he, I would say, in some ways seems incomplete, that we all expected more from him. In detail, you and the Prime Minister have explained today, all of what is most important, related to the Agrokor case and what we all need to know. During today's debate, I personally, and I believe that many other representatives, because I have received so far messages from our citizens from whom the first came at a time when my colleague Bernardic presented a proposal that reads like this, why we have to listen to this. The next one was working at Konzum and I get paid regularly and thank you very much for that, etc., etc. I think these messages of our citizens talk enough about this proposal that the government has decided is very good, that citizens are satisfied with it, and I think that this should be the most important thing for all of us at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58367	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58368	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lukačić, you are right, we say from day one, that this solution, between the 4 solutions the government could, in which way the government had to react was most correct, because, as we said, it has preserved the number of employees so far, farmers, small family farms were paid off, small suppliers were paid off in a certain percentage and other suppliers. And it is preserved, and the business of the company has been preserved which, if a deal is signed among the believers here, will allow all those interested and all the believers to collect their claims in a certain percentage. And that is the greatest achievement of this law without saying what its impact on the rest of the economy in Croatia and the entire Croatian economy, on the tourist season, on GDP growth and on these macroeconomic indicators. On the other hand, we heard it and it says in the government's statement what the cost would be for the state budget only if 28 thousand employees in Croatia ended up on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58369	Let's move on. Dear Ivo Davor Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58370	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bacic, you seem to have upset your SDP colleagues when you said he didn't know what he was doing on the right there. However, you have shown in your presentation that we have not heard from the left of any new arguments, any new discoveries. Perhaps in this long, long debate today the only discovery that we have had the opportunity to find out was how counterpart Beljak collects some support for some new majority but be careful without necessarily Davor Bernardic at the head of it. So since it is clear to all of us that the SDP will not be able to bring down the government, I am really wondering if this initiative may be embarrassing Bernardic and his vote of no confidence. If so, it is the same abuse of the Croatian Parliament, it is something that must be resolved in the structures of the SDP and not in the Croatian Parliament, I do not know if you agree with such a finding.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58371	Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58372	Thank you, Mr. President. I told my colleague Stier that this proposal to initiate the government's trust procedure on the one hand and on the other hand the proposal to the Constitutional Court to establish the unconstitutional nature of this law gives me the impression that the SDP does not know what it is doing on the right. That was my opinion. However, some analysts, and what I hear and indeed is in the SDP club, are said to have gone towards the outside and to cover conflicts within the SDP. So in this case, we will try to unite ourselves in the attack on the government in order to hide in a certain way our own problems in the party and conflicts within the SDP What you said is also an interesting thesis is this practical throw, that is, the release of this proposal to launch the government's responsibility to sacrifice Mr Bernardic? Because in any case, if, on several occasions, it tries to bring down the ministers and now the government as a whole, and not a single time goes by, the question of responsibility is, who does it all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58373	Let's move on, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58374	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, colleague Bacic, I respect that you are a soldier of your own party and represent your interests regardless of what you may not think. I'm sorry it all comes down to the SDP-HDZ conflict. I ask you where the Croatian people are, where the 330 thousand are blocked, where they are finished, where they are those who dig in containers. What about the national interests of the Republic of Croatia, I think it's all in some kind of seal somewhere. You mention the Croatian judiciary and get out into the real world so ask people, I wonder how many of them will say they believe in the Croatian judiciary, especially after the verdict of Horvatincic, so let me see how long your former party president is being tried, and the Spice affair where one of your ministers is, and the affair where the other minister was. So somewhere around 9 years of Polancec, it's estimated to be 12, 13 years that it's going to last. On public television, says Judge Turudic and lawyer Nobilo, that this affair would last more than 20 years so that I believe that these 77% who think they're going in the wrong direction are also judging by this. As for Agrokor, I will repeat once again the chronology of the formation of Agrokor, which occurred in '76. The company for the production of flowers and transplants, '89. In the '90s, HDZ came to power and since '92. Agrokor starts to buy Jamnica, Agroprerada, Moslavina hunting economy, then the majority share of Ledo, then Konzum, and Paslana Pag, and Vino-Jastrebarsko. And then it comes in 2000 when the SDP comes with its coalition partners to power, until 2004. Agrokor buys Kiseljak in Sarajevo and something in Serbia. And then, in 2004, when HDZ comes to power, Agrolaguna, Vrbovac Tisak, is bought again. Now tell me whose child is Agrokor?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58375	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58376	Thank you, Mr. President. You've said a lot of things to your colleague Lenart here. It would take half an hour to answer all of this together and I don't really see any reason or need to answer that. So this isn't a conflict between SDP and HDZ, it's not, it's not a conflict, it's you trying to raise awareness of the SDP conflict. Here it is, this is about the SDP's desire to bring down, try to bring down, not succeed, try to bring down the government headed by Andrej Plenkovic, and it is also ready to sacrifice 200 thousand jobs as much as it would have been to listen to the SDP from the first day the crisis occurred in the Agrokor concert, either in the concert itself, or in those companies and companies connected around the concert itself. Therefore, we have been saying the same thing since the first day, and that is that we care primarily about employees here, for all those employees of Croatian citizens who participate in one or another way are connected to the concert. And so it's not our conflict with the SDP, but here I'm saying, this is how the SDP tries to tear down the government to secure certain political points by destroying the government. It is a taste of all that is done and you in this way are trying to put everything that has happened in the past 27 years of the Croatian state on the burden of only the Croatian Democratic Community, what is bad. I would remind you that in two terms, your party has been in charge of the situation in Croatian agriculture for eight years. Well, you may have wondered, then, is there somewhere in this context the responsibility of you and your party when it comes to the situation in Croatian agrarian and Croatian agriculture?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58377	Let's move on. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58378	Your Honor. Dear counterpart Bacic, you have listed how many times Prime Minister Plenkovic has been in this House but I said immediately, and when the SDP sent this request, that we here will look for answers to questions, that it doesn't matter if there will be a recall because we all know that he will not be there. We all know in what way this majority is concluded, we know that today the chief defender of this government, Tomislav Saucha, is once the head of Zoran Milanovic's office, a man on serious charges. We know how the HNS got into this coalition, how it was pressed over certain checkpoints, and we wanted answers. We are aware that Vladimir Seks, who is the godfather of this government and your best man, does not want to be transferred before the parliamentary investigation committee by Andrej Plenkovic, does not allow the transfer of Martin Dalic, not to transfer Ante Ramljak and we have asked for answers. What we have received is that the prime minister is silent, afraid to answer those questions that are unpleasant to him, which are real questions, these are issues that show the policy of HDZ, if you want the SDP and even the HSS. We had this case where Mr. Kuterovac was involved, who was from the HSS, and later ended up in Agrokor, too. So all those who have exercised power in Croatia. And that is precisely the main proof that Ivica Todorovic was politically protected in the Republic of Croatia, not that I repeat here the more difficult defences. Guys, will you calm down, please? Can you stop the time here just? And not to repeat, like you, the defense of Ivica Todorovic, what you did here today, instead of telling your party officials to tell the truth about the treatment Ivica Todorovic enjoyed in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58379	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58380	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Grmoy, the way the prime minister will answer your question is his choice. You may ask yourself why the Prime Minister did not want to answer your questions today. Perhaps one of the reasons lies in the fact that with the irresponsible behavior of some part of Croatian politicians we are going right now, we are pushing the water to the mill of Mr. Ivica Todorovic's defence. Think about it, be careful when you talk about it. As far as I know, Mr. Todorovic is in London and will follow the pretty British judiciary how and how Croatian politicians act in this case. I am telling you that one and these are already, I repeat what Mr. Todorovic's defence said, and that is that political persecution can be spoken of at the moment when another man in the country starts criminal charges against one entrepreneur in Croatia. I'm not saying it's like that and I disagree and I say there is no political persecution in Croatia. But that's why I choose words when I talk about it. That's not your choice. In order to bury you, to try to blacken one of the members of the Croatian government, it is in front of you to worry that you are not going on with such a performance, do not force the water on the defence mill of Ivica Todorovic and there is a difference between us and you that we strictly distinguish the powers of the executive, legislative and judicial authorities in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58381	We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Grumoja. I'll warn you, so you already have a warning. And before that, counterpart Brkic warned you not to do so, and you will now face the danger of losing your right to speak until the end of the debate on this point if I consider that you have abused the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58382	Your Honor, I know you're pleased to take my word for it. I know, I see that smile on your face, but feel free to do it. [[President: I'm not glad, don't insinuate.]] Article 238 of the Rules of Procedure, I must react because unlike my colleagues, Bačić, I am very responsible for this country. So not a single thesis, you're constantly mentioning one defense thesis, and I'm deliberately not going to mention any thesis regarding the statements of some other senior officials from your party and it concerns this law that we're talking about today. Never in this debate during today's day have I mentioned a single thesis of defence, and you are constantly mentioning one thesis of the defense of Ivica Todorovic. And I am just the opposite of tearing down Ivica Todorovic's defense because I seek concrete evidence to support the fact that Ivica Todorovic in the Republic of Croatia had the political protection of the party that belongs to you. So I'm very responsible for this country, while you're very irresponsible because you chose one of the defenses that you keep repeating here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58383	So you didn't prove that your colleague Bacic hurt the Rules of Procedure in any way. So you did not even mention the article, or article you were about, which caused you to seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And since you've been warned multiple times, this is now the second warning I give you. You're losing your right to debate until the end of this point. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. There's no need to throw anyone out, but I think we've pointed out on many occasions what might happen and you've taken that risk and that's it. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58384	Thank you very much, Reverend Bacic. You say all the time that Lex Agrokorom saved Croatian society and employees and all of us state as a whole. However, with this law you sent a very, very bad message in the long run I would dare say disastrous, which is that you have introduced double criteria into the Croatian judiciary, double standards, because all that is worth to Mr. Todorovic is not valid for all of us other mortals. Why didn't you bring such laws to save 330,000 blocked citizens? Why are they not persons of strategic importance to you, why have you allowed 30 thousand turns to be in a blockade and is it still in a blockade today? That hundreds of bankruptcy factories? Why didn't you give them a chance to make a deal for at least 15 days, if not 15 months? You have clearly and loudly legalized what we know for a long time, which is that tycoons and criminals are protected by HDZ. You should, you know the laws of all equal value. You've heard of a term of equality before the law, it exists in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. What kind of message did you send to the citizens? What kind of message do you all have blocked, those failed turns, the OPGs, when you watch as a lion you fight to save one fallen company that has no salvation, and you leave them hanging? It's your policy, Mr. Bacic, a policy of hard pulsism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58385	Thank you. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58386	Comrade Bunjac, do you know what passed the law on extraordinary management? I don't think you do, and especially don't know when you call that law a populist law. Because this law primarily went towards the rescue of a company that counts about 60,000 employees and went towards the rescue of all those companies of subsidiaries, i.e. companies that were tied to the business of the concert. That's what 200 thousand employees are talking about. And that's what we came up with in a way that this measure that's been taken is consistent with the Constitution. Many times all of us here in this high house would advocate to help at certain times all Croatian citizens who are in any way in a difficult situation. And that's why there are other measures in the government's work. There are ministries that care and care for persons, Croatian citizens who are in a difficult position. However, when you ask the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament to pass a law that would intervene and restrict ownership rights and other rights guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution, the law would not pass the constitutionality test. And they would have done nothing but damage that they would have done primarily to all Croatian citizens who are taxpayers who would have to settle that damage later. Therefore, when a measure is taken as it should take care of the Constitution, the principle of proportionality that you do what you do, you do it in a way that, in the event that you restrict someone's right to be justified and justified, the principles of proportionality. What you're proposing in any case would have fallen many times in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58387	Thank you, colleague Bačić, next replica of the esteemed colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58388	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I'll read you a statement two months ago. Lex Agrokor was a good move by the government, it's a couple of excellent moves. And the biggest tragedy that the SDP has politicized about it, the more we were the ones who introduced the bankruptcy law, the more we had no right to play politicizing in the situation while the jobs in Agrokor were 40 thousand and another 30,000 in related companies. It's a shame SDP was against it. You know who made this statement? Slavko Linic, former SDP finance minister. He must have had good reason to say that. And now I'm going to do a little bankruptcy. Do you know a colleague named Bačić, when he started bankruptcy Name? 2000. You know when he finished? He's not finished yet, 17 years old. In a priority charge spent or charged 2 billion. The workers, they haven't charged yet. Before the bankruptcy deal. When is the pre-bank settlement law introduced? Linic, 47 billion outstanding claims. And what do we hear today? That they saved 30,000 jobs, and that's why the state gave up 5 billion kuna. Are we going to compare to Lex Agrokora? How many jobs, how many states have given up their kunas? That's it. Your claims? Prejudicial law. How did HDZ react to bankruptcy laws? We were in. How did the SDP react to this law? They were against it. What more is there to say, dear gentlemen? What's the effect, how many people, how many employees, how much they pay, how much the cost of the state. And what do we hear? That's why the government needs to be torn down. All the crime that appeared in front of the bankruptcy settlements how did he end up? No reaction. It's a HDZ that's constructive, we'll see everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58389	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58390	I thank you, sir, colleague Boric, for leaving my colleague Doncic. What he said two months ago, counterpart Linic said on March 15th, also by fellow Doncic. Until he saw that the law would indeed do what he was looking for, he apparently bit his tongue. He says, we ask that the Government of the Republic of Croatia pay special attention to that last round, therefore, to those suppliers who cannot manage and who will actually hit the most painful restructuring process according to our analysis. Speak up, they're rich and they're on their own anyway. So before we went into law-making, the SDP advocated solutions that came out of the law. But they couldn't skip over their own shadow. Then they began precisely against such solutions that cared for the weakest, about employees, about small OPGs, about small farmers began to attack the law. Therefore, I agree with what counterpart Linic said not only that statement. He made a series of statements that went on to defend this approach that saves first row Croatian citizens, and then clearly the Croatian economic and financial system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58391	Thank you. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58392	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bačić, if we exclude these evaluations of your request, we agree on more than that. Even I think I somehow felt from your exposure that you were apologizing for state intervention. I believe, of course, in accordance with the Constitution that the state must intervene. You know the resemblance between pre-fashion deals and this law? Which is what happens when someone pulls the money. Now, that's the biggest problem. When the bastards get the money out, then the state saves. And I voted for pre-fashion settlements. I also voted for Lex Agrokor for this very reason and for saving jobs. But as the Minister said in this government one was there, he went out, all around Agrokor is actually inverse, unusual, unnatural and unlively. And look, 464 million kuna profit that was faked from the Konzum was paid to that tax of 120 million kuna. And then the extraordinary commissioner said, "Well, now we're going to ask for a refund on that money that was wrongly paid." And that means that future owner of the Konzum would have the right to have a 5-year deduction of the income tax of up to a maximum of 3 billion kuna. Watch what's going on in the country? So the money that was wrongly paid should now be returned to whoever actually escaped from Croatia, who is no longer here, and even prosecutors claim that he has not even paid taxes for 9 years, that billions have been transferred to some companies in the Netherlands, or where they are already. So, the state should intervene without a problem and I don't see that problem, but I see a problem in all those institutions of the CNB, the HANF, the IRS that they've been doing these years, and they've put us in a position that I don't know and that the prime minister here says he has clean hands. I've got clean hands, too. Why would he be ashamed of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58393	A reply to Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58394	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not sorry about the state intervention. And I think that under certain conditions the state has the right to intervene, but here this is not the case because although the law has been passed that the extraordinary administration procedure did not by its signature allow the owner then, with everything you claim or anyone else that it is a state intervention, this law could not be applied. Therefore, only with the consent of the owner has the extraordinary administration come into force. That's one thing. And the other thing you see, you're wrong when you say that this law is about the same as a pretense settlement. It's far from each other. For what? Because in the pre-fashion settlement, either by the whole recovery procedure or whatever you want to call the procedure, by trying to get the company back on its feet, the procedure is managed by the owner, or by the current administration, and not now to lose ownership rights. But he manages the administration that, at the time of the opening of the pre-fashion deal, managed the company. Therefore, according to a pre-demand settlement, the company brought into that position the basis of the Pre-demand settlement Act continues to manage the same company. That's not the case here. This law virtually removes the entire administration and comes to its place the extraordinary administration, the religious council and everything provided for by the law. So if we wanted to react the way we reacted, this was the only way for this company to continue working this way until the moment the deal was signed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58395	The last replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58396	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bačić here is in a situation where you've been here a long time if I haven't been wrong since I was 5, that's the first Sanader since 2003. Agrokor is a long-term case, and if it hadn't come to what happened, that Todorovic's car had gone downhill because the banks ruled against him, you and your colleagues around you, and on the left and on the right would have continued to worship Todorovic. Ministers would and regulators so-called. obeying all orders, guessing wherever they might be. And now I've been listening to you for months as mantrates we've passed this law, we've protected suppliers, we're workers, we're citizens like this. However, if you cared about the workers since 2003, you would not have allowed them to be paid with bona fide cards, paid with pâtés, that Agrokor had no money to transfer the burden to them, because if you have to pay a thousand kunas 5 per month, you pay 15. You've been crediting someone for 10 days. Agrokor and Todorovic what they did in Croatia was one lawlessness, a bargain. And now all of a sudden, after years and years you and your colleagues have been in power, among other things, on more than one occasion, you are now suddenly saving all of them. But you entered a process that I didn't get too much explanation from either of the prime ministers that it would end. You praised that law. Thank you for what you've accomplished now. I ask you, will there be bankruptcy at the end? Will it all be taken by the Kuna? Will jobs be kept or not? If the law is so good, I'm asking for your assessment at last. Something concrete.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58397	Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58398	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Sinčić, we have brought down the SDP proposal to raise the issue of the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the end of the success or failure to implement the Law on Extraordinary Administration. If that's gonna measure the government, then this government has to get a grade five for me. Why? Because the intervention through the Law on Extraordinary Administration has so far proved to be an impeccable intervention in the Croatian economy. Therefore, if that is the only way to measure the government, then we should reject this proposal by representatives to launch the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, the government is doing much more than that and it is clear that the law on extraordinary administration and rehabilitation is only one in a series of what the Government is doing. As far as the outcome of this procedure is concerned, I cannot claim at this time or know how this process will speculate on how this process will end. According to what I hear from the credentials and from the vast majority of the credentials they are satisfied with the work of the extraordinary administration, they are satisfied with the small suppliers, so if we can say that this settlement has fully fulfilled its purpose. And if that's the case, we'll still wait another five, six months if not a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58399	And let's go Shuker comes at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58400	A colleague of Bacic has one political option that he likes to pass law on write-offs in his term of office and state. My memory still serves me well, so I remember 2002. 3rd month is passed the Law of Achieved, not charged claims with a duration of 9 months then obviously not all things have been carried out and then extended by 3 months. The effect written off somewhere a billion and some more state claims, to whom and how, I wouldn't talk about it. In 2012, what Boric said was passed the Act on Pre-departure settlement, all of us are in good interest to support it because we want to help the economy that has a terrible liquidity problem at the moment. And look, today is the last day of the session and the winter break is taking place, and the government changes the 45 articles of the law at its session next Thursday by means of a regulation that has 50 articles, but the most important thing is to change the most important thing, which is that the companies of the daughters who are some sort of fictitious debtors become practically the most important part of the credentials and they make a decision is that it was wonderful, wonderful, fair, and today this is all that is wrong. And most importantly, the first year of the application of this law pre-fashion settlements were conducted in FINA, eventually the court signed it, then it was seen that it was not very good, so it went back to the trade court, but by then it had already flown somewhere around 3 billion kunas from the state budget. And look, we didn't even ask for the government's trust, the government had what it had, some businessmen helped each other, and that's how it is. And today, all of a sudden, very suspicious. However, what is very interesting to my colleague Bacic that no one was suspected to be in debt in three years of your term, four billion and 800 million euros, or that someone who acted in power for seven, has a minister of economy and a minister of agriculture for eight months, and at that time, the company is in charge of 600m euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58401	Thank you. Comrade Bacic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58402	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're right, you're a colleague of Shucker's. Through the pre-profit settlement procedure, there have been situations where a number of small suppliers lost their claim even though they paid for all their services and the products that they provided to the company that went through the pre-profit settlement, paid VAT, paid income tax, etc., etc. the tax on profits, etc., therefore at that point it was very possible to review the constitutionality of the Pre-departure settlement Act and in these settlements, in any case, the constitutional rights of a number of small entrepreneurs, etc., etc. and only now will we see whether in this law, because not only did Grbin's colleague apply for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law, but also many other promoters submitted an assessment of the constitutionality, so we will see if, as Government, we have made one law that violates the constitutional rights of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian citizens themselves, and the Constitution itself. Therefore, in the past, there have been such cases in several cases, you yourself mentioned in 2002 when several debts were written off to the state, and those who paid neatly were not given any substitution to compensate for the fact that they were neatly paid. So there were cases like this on several occasions, we, as you said ourselves, didn't attack the government because we knew that even through these proceedings it helped a number of entrepreneurs, so here I fully agree. This law got everything it needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58403	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed colleague, Peja Grbin, will be five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58404	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, dear colleague Bacic. Something you said a few moments ago is a great introduction to what I planned to talk about. Agrokor is a law on extraordinary administration and all mutilations carried out by HDZ are sufficient reasons for the government's departure, sufficient but not the only one. So since you asked us to count the other reasons for leaving this government that one of its coalition partners until yesterday called Titanic the government, let me mention them. So let's start with the order, Minister Žalac 10 million kuna, 10 million kuna to his pal without conducting a public procurement procedure with a direct contract, 10 million kuna, so little to help a man, to strengthen his job, to make it a little easier and easier to live, while at the same time withdrawing money from the eu funds never worse. After what the SDP government worked on was exhausted by the end of 2015, when you should have started withdrawing money for what your work would be, for example, Minister Butkovic in charge of infrastructure, etc. which are the effects of withdrawing money from the eu funds zero, nothing, but for the pal 10 million kuna without the public procurement process by a private contract, there is for that. From the end of 2011 to the end of 2016, Minister Kujundzic, the SDP government has reduced its debt in healthcare to half from 5 to 2 and a half billion kuna. That took four years. Debt has been reduced, waiting lists have been reduced, new programmes have been introduced. All these programs were abolished as soon as you came to power and only for two years, it took you two years to repay your debt in healthcare where it was in 2011. And then that problem needs to be solved. And what do you suggest? Accumulation of participation, introduction of supplementary health insurance which should become compulsory health insurance and make compulsory supplementary health insurance, additional taxation of mobile services, etc. At the same time, you're predicting preferential treatment for public health rich people. And what is the message, what is the answer of Minister Kujundzic when asked about it? The minister said in his own style that he would not like to go to a referendum and return Croatia to communism. Well, gentlemen, dear, even though Croatia has never been in communism, this communism might be better than what the HDZ provides. Let's move on. My esteemed and dear colleague Minister Tolusic. After bringing us to war with all non-EU neighbours, after we got our fingers crossed by the European Commission, the minister tried to introduce in the Croatian legal order in the last year measures banned by the EU court back in the '70s. Minister, have you ever heard of the Dawson case? You didn't hear the subject Dawson will? Unequal treatment of products from other EU countries, or a product that entered EU territory once, cannot be subject to further controls in other Member States. A law school student can't finish a second year of law school if he doesn't know about it. The basis, the basis of policy and freedom of movement in the EU. You haven't heard of it, Mr. Minister, but the laws are ready to be passed. But of course that's not all, of course it's not all. More than 50 million kuna of support has been allocated to dozens of PAGs that have not been on the first list of the EAGs presented to the European Union. 50 million kuna. The company Tofrado from the respected representative of Lučić, my esteemed colleague against whom the procedure for bribery is being conducted, goes to support, going 7 and a half million kuna while his companies are debting Croatian forests to more than 15 million kuna. It's HDZ, it's HDZ, it's Mr. Plenkovic's government. Mr. Maric is his brother who enters the administration of a state-owned company. He says he doesn't know shit about it. Either he's lying or he's not doing his job because he's head of a ministry that has to approve every appointment in every administration of every state firm. Unfortunately, I have to stop here, but there will be still time to continue on what HDZ has done in the past year under Mr Plenkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58405	Thank you. You're late. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58406	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Grbin, you need to know 238. [[Adversity President: Article only please.]] Insulting fellow MPs because you're telling the truth. You're in the SDP right now. Like your colleague Jovanovic the other night, I told you not to tell any lies. [[Adversity President: Peace only.]] First, I was assigned nothing, not even given, under number one. Second, as far as my company's concerned, you're telling the truth before. I think you will soon learn the truth about everything you insinuate and what here not only to the representatives but also to everyone else you're giving the truth about me, and as you can see, I've been here for years in the Croatian Parliament and everything I've done right now, and I've worked in the best faith by spreading my economy and so on 245 employees. Of which he now works 140. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Lucic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58407	Thank you very much. So as in the case of my colleague Bernardic, I think it is inappropriate for my colleague, Sauchi, to speak of criminal responsibility to someone who has not been convicted. Secondly, companies are referred to as being owned by fellow Lucic. Not that I know of, so please don't do that anymore. This breach of the Rules of Procedure made sense. Let's move on. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58408	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. I think it's really great that you guys talked about other things that we may not have focused on before in the debate. We'll have plenty of time. However, one of the things that you mentioned in your discussion, which refers to the preferential treatment of the rich man, was particularly ringing so the preferential treatment of the rich man is not just in the health care. So this government has preferential treatment for rich people everywhere. So just remember tax reform and how they increased their salaries to the richest, how they increased the gap between the rich and the poor. And anyone who monitors literature knows that the wealth gap is one of the main factors of social inequality and generally problems in society. So, this government I think you really hit. This government is completely insensitive to the poorest and most needed. So, even I would say it has nothing to do with the proclaimed democracy, because Christianity should be sensitive to such things. But here's the solidarity in this government. There's no S.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58409	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58410	Thank you, dear fellow Glavasevic. You're right. Mr. Kujundzic's approach to health reform, but also the Ministry of Finance's access to tax reform is simply embarrassing. Mr. Kujundzic did not only do absolutely nothing to reduce the debt in healthcare, but continuously by throwing flossules of insults and patients, and doctors, and all others who participate in providing medical services. At the same time, it threatens to introduce certain measures that will undo all what is well done in Croatia in the field of public health, in the field of health that is available to all citizens. I'd just wonder if Mr. Kujundzic ever heard of one name in his life, and that's the name of Andrija Printar? From all that man is, but after him all the institutions that deal with health care in the Republic of Croatia have done to raise health care in Croatia to a level that they fail to afford even countries that can single out 3 or 4 times more than Croatia. A few years ago, a single health list was developed for all Member States of the European Union. We were on that ranking list 15 of the 27 Member States. Although we are by the wealth that the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia have at the end. In many segments we were even better than Austria, and even from Finland when it comes to the availability of health services. And what is Mr. Kujundzic's answer to all this? Just like Maria Antonette when they told her the people don't have bread, so let them eat cakes. Here she is, let the rich be treated, and the poor who cares about her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58411	Second replica, dear colleague Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58412	Your Honor. Just a minute. Pusic, Miletic, Gavela, Stazič, here we are. Says 10 million kuna, Minister Zhaozac and his friend wanted to share. Let's do this, that's your story. But your way, we're moving on, buddy Grbin. Jakovina's wife paid her first associate 2.7 million kuna – Max Portal. Jakovina's butter, king of pastures from Zagreb, received millions of kuna inciting Cetinska krajina bitter. 51.4 million kuna for 8,000 acres, again Jakovina three times. Minister Jakovina gave the great players 70 million kunas of incentives to which he was almost lost with the cooperative, suddenly he has a villa and I don't know what he doesn't have. Just get to it. One-and-a-half billion kunas stopped by the European Union and funds because he wanted to intercede with incentives for more firms of the same owner. And here I have more thick books, I haven't gotten your data yet, I hope to get to the next replica, Mr. Grbin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58413	Let's move on. Next. Did you get that? I'm sorry, I didn't see. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58414	Your Honor, Mr. President, do you really think I could miss the reply to the replica of my dear colleague Cule?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58415	Perhaps the arguments were so strong that you were speechless.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58416	Well, the arguments were actually great, because when we listen to what Mr. Culey was saying then it turns out that during Mr. Yakovina, at least something was going on. Maybe it was wrong, but there was something going on. During Mrs. Grief, there's nothing to be done. Yesterday, data show that Croatia is never worse at withdrawing funds from the European Union funds. Never worse. But not only is Croatia never worse, so there is no Member State of the European Union that is as bad as Croatia is under the rule of this until yesterday called "Titanic of the Government" under Mr Plenkovic's rule. This is a disaster. But watch out, for the award of money, for the award of 10 million kunas against the law, that's what it has. And that it is illegal in this case I can say because fortunately there is something called the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures which has responded and which has prevented such an illegal contract from being consummated. I'll do it again. Here we are discussing the HDZ Government with the small support of the remains, the remains of HNS led by Mr Plenkovic. Mr. Yakovina is not a member of this government. About him, what you have to say, say the word. But you have not answered a single word of criticism I have sent to the government of Mr Plenkovic and his ministers. And do you know why, Mr. Culey? Because you can't answer any of what I said because you don't have the arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58417	Let's move on. Third replica, dear colleague Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58418	I have so far seen you as a very serious person and representative who tries to base his conclusions on arguments. However, it is not possible to draw a valid conclusion from this interpretation of the SDP or the arguments and premises from it that this government needs to be brought down. But even if it were hypothetically possible, do you think you would be able to put together a new government? And then if that wasn't possible, then of course the outcome would be new choices. Do you actually think, based on your little and weak public ratings, that we could win those elections? And even if we could win what is much less likely than Greece giving 5 goals to Croatia and Croatia none, do you think that the inter-region would make the climate better for the solution to the problem both around Agrokor and all other problems in the country? And then I wonder, and I ask you, what is the logic of your interpretation to answer me, and especially when we go back to history, so let's look at the other interpretations? Did anyone today remember more of the "Consultantica" or "Barisic's footnotes" affair, were these the biggest problems in Croatia that needed to bring down the government in this country? Therefore, it seems that the only logic of your interpretation is the logic of destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58419	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58420	Dear and esteemed colleagues, although here you are, unlike most people here, sitting in two parliaments in two different states, although you have led even one House of Representatives, you have not learned to this day what is the difference between the impeachment and the motion to recall the government. This isn't an impelation. The impediments of the opposition are submitted when they want to discuss a topic. However, our constitutional system is flawed and when interpretation is submitted then there is no time limit in our constitutional system to discuss this interpretation. So in the last two years, the SDP has submitted three interpretations. One concerned proceedings against the Republic of Croatia before foreign arbitration, due to laws in the Swiss francs. The HDZ did not consider it important to discuss it in the Assembly, we never discussed it in the Assembly. The following interpretation referred to the nationalisation of INE, which should be financed through the privatisation of HEP. It was submitted in January of this year, for HDZ it is obviously not an important topic, this is what you too are about, Mr. President, in order to discuss it after 10 months or, if you will excuse us, we should have discussed it at 11 months later. It's an impelation. It was the third one to refer to the already notorious, infamous greeting "for home ready", but it does not matter that the Croatian Parliament should discuss it either. And in such a situation, when the ruling refuses to discuss impellations, then the respected colleague who you have been sitting at the head of a single parliament in one country, then there is a thing called an impeachment request. Because it's the only instrument that the opposition has to force the ruling to discuss certain topics. And as for the esteemed fellow Culei, before you, you have neither answered a single statement nor a single fact which I have uttered. Not 10 million kunas of direct contract, not 50 million kunas to people who aren't on the list, not by... long health care. Nothing to my colleague, Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58421	Thank you. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58422	Thank you very much. Comrade Grbin, you have highlighted in this brief address another important segment of why this government is not doing well and why 77% of citizens feel that it is going in the wrong direction. It is the work of the Minister of Health Kujundzic, who has, in fact, cheated on all citizens with his work, as well as HDZ voters because everything he does is the opposite of what it says in the HDZ programme when it comes to health protection. Therefore, you have listed some of the problems, but here I would like to point out once again that the work of Minister Kujundzic questioned the public health segment of which Croatia is to be raised, Andrija Printar is probably turning in the grave, the work of the Schools of Public Health has been questioned for funding, and now announces the destruction of health homes and some kind of privatisation of general medicine offices that the citizens of self-delivery have built themselves. The waiting lists have reached incredible proportions, so in 2015 there were 400 thousand people, today there are millions and 200. If we take the waiting lists for cardiovascular procedures, the heart surgery decreases but not because of the success of Minister Kujundzic but because the patients die because they fail to wait for order to arrive for surgery. The immunological institution collapsed, and even in the budget it reduced, in the rebalancing of 5 million kunas took the Immunological Institute, the blood plasma collapse. It has failed to obtain enough vaccines against flu even though all experts say that this flu will be one of the major epidemics given the changed composition of the virus strain. And thus, it is clear from all of this that with the very way he behaves and treats himself, for example. The nurses have not been honored to come to a round table where the problems of the sorority were discussed, that is enough evidence why, if this government does not go as a whole, then at least Minister Kujundzic should be the first to leave it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58423	A response to the replica of a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58424	Dear colleague Jovanovic, I must correct you a little. So, you mentioned only privatising health homes and only privatising primary health care, but I carefully studied what Mr. Kujundzic offered and he suggested something worse. And it's a return to the Middle Ages and a return to the Terrestrial Associations that predict the succession of positions, the succession. In 2017, suggest that someone can inherit their father or mother and keep his job in public health is simply ridiculous. However, I will present another picture of what is happening in Croatian health care. We have top doctors, unfortunately and from some of our family situations I have had the opportunity to see that the treatment that comes from doctors in Croatia is nothing worse than the one that a man can get in famous foreign hospitals. However, it is the treatment of a doctor. When treatment of a system that is based on what your doctor has prescribed should be given and then you will experience problems. Top doctors at top Croatian hospitals cannot administer medicines especially expensive biological medicines because they are simply not available. There are sponsors killing each other, in any way they manage, and sometimes they finance their own medications that save or extend their lives. And what Minister Kujundzic says about all this, again, in Mrs Maria Antoinette's style, "let them eat cakes". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58425	We're moving on to a club debate. A SDSS representative club and a respected colleague, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58426	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister with the ministers. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Radin asked me, what are you going to talk about? Thinking about what we've got to do with this thing. And it would be easier of course to stand by or listen or just watch, but the responsibility of each of us exists even if it was 0.001%. And from that percentage I stand here behind this pay phone. But sooner I say something that will lead me to this topic. It's November 10th or November, and tomorrow it's November 11th or November. Two important things happened that date. 99 years before tomorrow, the truce of the Great War was signed and it is important to mention it. It is especially important to mention it in the context of our wars here that we cannot stop fighting. For 25 years, HDZ has been accusing the SDPs of socialism and Yugoslavia, and a little less SDPs are accusing the HDZ of criminal privatisation and of poor policies in other spheres. These 25 years, there was no special benefit from these wars. There was more damage and a lot of damage. Part of that damage can be felt today and seen all these days, weeks and months when it comes to Agrodor. No other topic is on the cover of media, daily pages, portals and television. Croatia does not exist. Her citizens don't exist with all her other problems. There are only Agrokor and actors in connection with Agrokora. It's not smart, it's not fair, and it shouldn't go on like that. There is another important event that is closer to us on November 11th or the Peasant-Democratic Coalition between Stjepan Radic and Svetozar Pribičević was signed in November. We are very burdened with the right of our unfortunate war and the war of the common land and the war of war and the war of our country today. It is also important to mention some of the times when there are dates that guarantee stability, cooperation and conversion from 27 November, from 11 November 27 to 10 April 41 or 6 April 41. Two otherwise irreconcilable opponents, Radic and Pribicevic, in a series of periods, decided for political interests to prevail. I think we should learn from that. Now let me say something about what is the main topic of today's debate. A colleague of Mrak-Taritash mentioned two stages in her inspired stages in Agrokor. One is Todorovic, the other one is Ramljakov. I think there are three periods when it comes to Agrokor. The first is that period of the '90s wild, uncontrollable in many of the poor initial accumulations of the capital of our newly-roasted capitalists, tycoon whatever we call them. Agrokor went through this period with all the bad characteristics that the period had and came to 2000 and became a respectable company in Croatia and the region. With respectable results in a number of areas, with an attempt to reach two things through partnership. First, to build a partnership with actors in the region, Serbia, Slovenia, above all, and to create a strong company that will preserve the market in that area from potential big players coming from Europe or the world. He didn't make it into a partnership and he went alone and it had a price. Secondly, he went to change from the basic bus in food production and similar things, to modernization and in certain areas he had success. But he had two big traps. One is that he went on a scale of business, but not on what he said about every business and every capitalism, which is a question of profit, cost and profit. And by borrowing it, it's on the charge. The moment the annual interest rates became larger than the annual earnings of the moment opened this issue that we are discussing today. And what could the government have done? She could either go into the usual bankruptcy procedure, or find out as was the case with pre-departure deals a few years ago proposed by Minister Linic at the time, or find some other solution as she found this solution. And in the first stage, no doubt it was achieved, stopped by what was worst that could have happened. But the next thing you know, we're here accusing each other of what's common for a political match. And what is the responsibility of those who, without any criteria of banks, have supported this policy based on the company's business development policy, not on real results and real profit, and real profit and real profit. What's their logic? And what is their responsibility? And will they eventually be the one to pay the price? And there's another question. Where were those responsible for regulatory mechanisms and regulatory reactions during these critical and crisis years? Which, by the way, we can't touch. But that's why those in their autonomous position have an obligation to act the way the Parliament did and how the law gave them a position. Did they work? No, they're not. If anyone has any knowledge that HDZ or SDP have affected them, let them say so. But these two groups of actors have a serious responsibility for the situation in which not only one company was found, but in which the country was found. You don't save Agrokor here. The result of one type of privatisation, rather than saving what is extremely important for this country, which is a huge number of jobs, companies that are alongside those jobs and this key company are also tied to the country's fiscal stability. Now, a lot of people are asking what's next? Right. I wonder myself. Many ask, were there any mistakes on this road? Well, there have been some mistakes, probably. But we shouldn't be making mistakes, if I may say so, because many people listen and look out of their interests where we're going to involve the state, where we're going to involve the government so that in view of our interests, we can activate what Pupovac is going to say, or what he's going to write, I don't know who on his email. We've lost several arbitrations and disputes, among other things, because of our irresponsibility. In political games, responsible people, regardless of justifiable opposing positions, and in a political match, don't behave like that. What's really ahead of us is the issue of a settlement. Will the settlement work and how will it work? Is it going to succeed according to the crash model of stock prices 70 to 80% of their nominal value and if it happens as some serious people whose opinion I hold, and some are here, too, if something like that happens, there is a serious risk of a balance-breaking blow in the country of a significant part of the company, a significant part of the company. What's it got to do? You need to look to prevent that from happening. You need to watch how to do, encourage the believers to actually put their claims into possession and give the opportunity to recover the company over the next few years and that these same creditors and the company itself actually, and then the entire system financially does not come into an even bigger crisis than it is right now. For this reason, it seems to me that this is a key issue and that in the next few months it will actually need to work in this direction to resolve this key issue as well as possible in an intervening way of resolving the issues that my colleagues have been talking about here and I will not repeat it. Do Croatia need elections in these next few months? SDP colleagues, do they need them? Everyone smart, so don't point, because I'm not an economist and I'm not on it, they'll tell you no, they don't. So if you seriously think you need elections then it's really a non-serious position, but if you want a political game in order, your right, as would be mine and everyone else. However, we must be careful with every part of the political game that can damage what is key positions of national interest. Finally, Lalovac mentioned the issue of stock trade after the law was passed and after the contract was signed. My feeling tells me he's right. The regulators of what should have done anything to ensure that this does not happen, especially if it wants to preserve the nominal value of shares for a bargaining framework that would be more favourable than that would have been the case and rather than the circumstances in which the trading of shares was allowed on several occasions under very unfavourable circumstances for creditors and for the value of the shares themselves. So, SDSS representatives' club at these important moments where Agrokor is just one of the important places for a potential chance to recover Croatian economy and Croatian finances and how private companies operate. Some people rightly speak of Agrokor as being a company that was under the skirts of the state and vice versa that the state was under the lap of Agrokora. But with these measures, it will no longer be so. And let's give it a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58427	I thank Mr. Pupovac for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first came from a respected colleague, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58428	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pupovac, I fully agree with you and your speech that you have now spoken. I also feel similarly that Agrokor's responsibility is everyone's. That it's a matter of jobs and that we should certainly support that this ends as best it can be. However, I must look back on one moment before the Grbino speech when he publicly stated that Goran Maric had influenced his brother who has been working on the railway for 10 years and has been a member of the administration, that it is a shame, a man who cannot defend himself sitting there, and the coat of arms is not telling the truth. This man is a long, long time and during the SDP in some important functions on the Railways. So I think that in this House we should only tell me the truth, and all you've said so far is that I support you, and I wish there were more of these speeches in the House and we should talk about how problems should be solved when we have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58429	I thank Mr. Music. Dear fellow Minister, I would like to ask you to stay away from such classmates in the future. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58430	Thank you very much, Vice President. An article in 235 was injured, so I'd like you to be brave when you replicate someone else, in this case, a colleague of Pupovac. You could have, if the minister couldn't, replicated the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58431	My colleague Hajdukovic, thank you very much for interpreting the replica. No injured Rules of Procedure in my opinion. If you are not satisfied, you shall have the right to address the committee responsible by object. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58432	My colleague Pupovac says that for 25 years HDZ and SDP have been each other's accusations. The HDZ accuses the SDPs of communism, and the SDPs accuse the HDZ of robbery. These two charges cannot be put in the same sentence, because they are neither in force nor in argument are the same. As for the HDZ indictment accusing the SDPs of communism, it is completely pointless. Communism in these areas has never been. There was a Socialist Yugoslavia, a country that was valued worldwide in both the East and the West. But there was a Communist Party. And the most radical, dogmatic members of the Communist Party founded nationalist parties in the 1990s in all republics and Yugoslavia. Some of them with fascist traits and blamed the tragedy of these peoples that would feel for decades to come. They weren't just created for nationalist initiatives, but also for robbery. That was the basic motive of their establishment. Well, when the SDP complains about the HDZ robbery, then thinks of a 90s privatisation into Tudjman's time that nobody's going to dispute. Sanader's robbery of public companies and HDZ for which she was accused, which is being prosecuted. So don't even these two types of accusations, because they don't go together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58433	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. My colleague Pupovac's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll tell you about that story you told on one side, from one look that you could, of course, talk from another look, I know at least as much as you do. But I won't talk to her. About whether I'm equating those two things, I'm not equating. But today, 25 years after everything with new relations both within the HDZ and within the SDP, with new actors both within the HDZ and within the SDP, it seems to me, I'm not just saying that because of you and your colleagues, and because of my colleagues from the HDZ, it would be high time for this kind of conflict to enter into a phase of truce and to turn to something called the future of both HDZ and SDP because that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58435	I would like to thank my colleague Pupovac for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When you talk about consensus, I agree with you absolutely. But for dialogue, the word dialogue itself, it's not a monologue, it takes two. It takes a will on both sides to make a deal. The new president of my party first thing he did when he became president wrote to the prime minister and asked them to meet, to agree on about 5 points that are most critical for Croatia, which are the biggest Croatian interests, which we need to agree on and have a consensus on. As a rare example, we had a consensus of entering NATO, entering the European Union. This is definitely the question how counterpart Mrak-Taritash said in her presentation first-rate economic then and political issue and here we should have tried to reach consensus. But what we're looking for, a respected colleague, is information, information. We don't want to be in the dark as an opposition. I don't know if you have any information. We don't have them. You're part of the ruling and you have state secretaries. Do they have any information? I don't know. Today we asked the Prime Minister a series of questions. We didn't get a single answer. So maybe if there was one open, normal communication, not necessarily in the tide, you might say you're doing a good job because I don't know everything. But obviously from what we're reading, we see we can't agree and we still don't get answers. There's something hiding. Why? Who's in the interest of who? Certainly not Agrokor, certainly not the transparency of restructuring and the relifting of Agrokor on the feet and Croatian economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58437	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. My colleague Pupovac's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58438	I am pleased that you repeat what the SDP president, Mr Bernardic, said after the election and his election for parliament and elections. But I think that even in the circumstances that are new, it also makes sense and there's room to watch how to try around key issues in the country not to suspend differences, not to suspend confrontations, polemics, or conflicting the most severe species, but to recognize what needs to be defended and preserved. You know, if we had some kind of national consensus for the European Union from 2003 to 2011, I don't see why we shouldn't have some kind of minimum consensus maybe not so broad and not so strong but minimal consensus for this poor country and its increasingly miserable citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58439	I would like to thank my colleague Pupovac for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58440	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am offered by Mr. Pupovac and SDK, 90 years of SDK, and you did not mention Pribičević and Radic, both ended tragically. Radic was killed and Pribicevic died in exile in Prague, wrote a book in French about the dictatorship of King Alexander. Why do I say that? The coalition was the result of the systemic crisis, the systemic crisis of the Kingdom of SHS. And now that we look at what's going on in Croatia 22 years after the Homeland War, we have an economy in certainly a systemic crisis. Nothing unusual. The 95th year is in modern Europe for these countries in the west of 45th year, which was in France, Germany, elsewhere in 68th year, the year of the student movement. We had the same systemic crisis in those countries. We have signs of a systemic crisis in Croatia with Agrokora. And we must now use this crisis to restructure the Croatian economy. That must be our goal. Let's not burden ourselves with the privatisation and robbery in the privatisation that was fortunately our Croats are not the only ones but there was a robbery, I was much in East Germany, and if you talk to the Germans in the east of the country they will tell you about that the country has been robbed in privatisation and it is no coincidence that we have an increase in EU skeptics and nostalgists of national socialism because many people there are losers of transition and people who have been robbed during privatisation. Therefore, let us use this systemic crisis to change the Croatian economy so that we can get better and get ready for new victories in the competition that is terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58441	I thank Mr. Kovac. My colleague Pupovac's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58442	Dear counterpart Kovac, although I could not return to SDK and an unfortunate fate but still heroic politics both Radic and Pribičević at certain times. Yes, this is an opportunity for serious reform and perhaps this is actually the biggest and most serious reform move this government is trying to take with all the risks it carries and with all the bad pictures that are being created. But as someone did in the story about the euro introduced at Hotel Westin a while ago, he said nothing without taking care of it, additionally taking care of the state. If regulators do not work, if those who are actors of financial supervision, the monetary ones are not activated at the moment when banks and their roles are at risk that the reform move of this species will be short-lived, and that is where political parties, key political parties such as SDP and HDZ, of course I do not rule out the Living Wall, regardless of what their position is slightly easier at the moment because they do not have the legacy that the parties with a longer internship in the Assembly have, but they have some more experience and know that it is one thing to say, and it is another thing to do politics when you come and take power.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58443	I would like to thank my colleague Pupovac for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58444	Thank you. Dear Pupovac, it's been inspiring this graduation since the end of the great war and the formation of the SDK as an illusion that we could end a great war and form something like SDK and then you went to the metrics, and it worked out well that these dates. I will also say two such dates that could be compared to that of a recent Croatian history. One was on July 17, 1991, when the Parliament trusted 3. The government of the Republic of Croatia known as the "Government of Democratic Unity" because it was such a circumstance that it required the end of not then of the great war, but the end of these political conflicts. The second is also the date of January 19th 2005, when the Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision establishing the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations. These were two dates that can be compared from the aspect of our political relations with HDZ to these dates, of course, on the micro-level you said. But you said something else in the introduction, which is that your responsibility or your liability is 0.001. Have I mentioned enough zeroes? See, that's where you were wrong. Quite the opposite. Your responsibility is in this 1.00.00% because you gave the sentence the right to those who believe that the mandates of national minorities are somewhat less valuable than those of ordinary MPs. And secondly, because you accepted to be an arbiter between large parties when the crossing of a part of the MPs and one party from the list that got trust on the other side was a violation of the will of the electoral body and you voluntarily agreed to be an arbitration officer, so at least don't diminish your stake in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58445	I thank my colleague, Bauk. My colleague Popovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58446	Dear colleague Bauk, as far as these two dates are concerned, you mentioned them rightly. As far as the percentages are concerned, you know that as far as my party and I are concerned, as an agent, we never try to act below 1% in this House. But when it comes to participation in executive power in the longest number in the longest period, it remains 1%, so from that perspective I say it, especially from the perspective of those who assess the role of minorities and minority policies in Croatia, which actually do not give more than 0.001%. And that's why they would lift minority mandates and get rid of minority policies. As for the last thing, if one process started in a way that we from the SDSS are not happy and no one is happy about the fact that a historic party in Croatia, which is the Croatian People's Party split up against the challenge it faced. And that doesn't mean that this process will ultimately not end differently than it has begun. After all, such challenges were before only with reverse coalition partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58447	I would like to thank my colleague Pupovac for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58448	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Pupovac, I must confess that I am not pleased with your speech. We've heard everything and everything. Maybe it would have been better if you hadn't even called in your word. Among other things, you've claimed that it's a national interest to preserve a government like this, and I have to admit that it's really funny to me. So stick to a government that doesn't trust 77% of citizens after just a year of term of office, which does not implement any reforms, a government that has given up its own president who says that in Croatia it is necessary to introduce extraordinary measures, given that we are in a state of emergency, that it is a national interest to maintain such a government, I think you are aware that the vast majority of citizens disagree with you. Also to say that going to new elections is not smart, be careful, so you have now declared the ruling majority smart. So basically those who are against the election are stupid, and that's the logic you said. So I remind you that elections are a democratic institution, a democratic tool and that simply if we want to live in a democratic state, elections should be allowed if they are necessary. And at this point, they're absolutely necessary. And thirdly, you're calling for some national consensus, burying war axes, ending war. So why don't you go with Mr. Plenkovic to the memorial? You have a chance. Here, you're 18 now. 11, so I don't know when the Jasenovac memorial is, go along to these memorials and bury the battle axes. You can do it, first of all. And when you talk about taking a minority mandate, that's Mr. Shakespeare's idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58449	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. My colleague Pupovac's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58450	Dear comrade Bunjac, I am not used to interpreting other people's words differently than they were directed to me. Even when I hear speeches I don't personally think are the best. So I would also expect you not to attribute what I said to what you didn't say. But if you want to use the harshest forms of sophistication and sophistical demagogy, you can keep doing it. But then I don't have the will to answer, because I'm teaching my students right now. There may be stupid speeches, there may be useless speeches, but they're all more honest than bad sophistics and harsh demagogy. I didn't say this government was irreplaceable and I didn't say she was smart, and you're imputing it to me. Well, when that's the case, then I'm losing my will to replicate and discuss it with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58451	I would like to thank my colleague Pupovac for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Tomislav Panenic, a respected colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58452	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister on his departure, respected members of the government. It turned out to be this hot, but let's just a little bit of thinking that enough atmosphere is this kind of dreary and let's try to finish these club presentations that each of us has something to say. We have today said our message, we want the Agrokor company to succeed, to succeed in its restructuring, to maintain the level of production it had, to retain its partners, of course, and customers and everything that benefits us as a state in this case. We see, however, that the crisis itself may not be a question of the economy that we all feel, but it has also become a serious political issue, especially when politics has begun to manage the economy. Of course, the issue goes on for years, and it's precisely when we have a case like this that's been built for 20 years by non-market principles, by policy and the economy of favoring the key to all the debates. Only this case has shown numerous shortcomings, weaknesses, imperfections of the Croatian legal system because when the crisis came to answer the question of how to deal with these, it was not in our legal system. It was necessary to pass a special regulation, it just shows that we are not up to the state to deal with serious quality investments where everyone can at some point come into a certain difficult situation and then the devastating effects can seriously endanger the entire economic system of Croatia. The law that has been passed has shown the weakness shared with all other regulations that we have in Croatia, which is to be implemented by people. They carry out people with a series of their weaknesses where the challenge of orderly public interest is to a small personal benefit or a certain group of people who manage to impose their views shows that as a society, we will have to make a lot of progress. What caused a number of recommendations after the start of the crisis, which was the direction in which the crisis was being resolved. First, the prime minister caused serious political instability when protecting his minister's last atom. Whether because of his personal political vanity or because of the real belief that his minister had absolutely no knowledge of the system he was working in, and I think here we know everything about each other, and then imagine in the companies where we worked those who worked somewhere who knew everything. There's also a lot of things that nobody's ever said. What we've all tried through here, especially from the Bridge, to give the Prime Minister a message that he's not just listening to compliments and praises, but we've warned him of the serious consequences of his actions. One of these consequences was the excessively long period of exaggeration that created the constitutional crisis, a month and a half of the local elections, four ministries had no ministers, two parties that later formed key parties in forming the HDZ government and the HNS swore that they had no contact, all of which created an additional threat, and when we look where it was that we mentioned already today and in our questions, it was precisely in the part that referred to a roll-up loan contract where Commissioner Ramljak also said that unfortunately in the conditions of such a crisis there was no hearing or there was no communication from the government or there was not enough responsibility but the political moment was stronger than what would happen because the position prevailed, we can resolve it. But then the question is, what will be the solution to the terms of the loans signed by the system take or leave? And do we really have to believe that no one wanted to give a loan without taking all the property that was available until then? We see that all possible objects that we can imagine are listed in our places. Why are we as a bridge and now we're taking part in this initiative? First of all, on a number of questions that are being asked, we couldn't get a chance to answer the investigation committee, we won't get the key people or the prime minister we asked for, or Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic, or Ante Ramljak, and we're just trying to get answers to specific questions. I thank the Prime Minister for attending at least his part to hear the questions we have, I hope he will only realize that these are the answers that are missing from one mosaic, that sooner or later he will appear, that there will be no hidden intentions and give answers to the set. What we asked was, there was nothing new about it. The last loan to HBOR, the Nexus loan, the probabilities around Vupik, Jaska, Badel, the influence of B2 Capital, the relations of Ramljak with the Knighthead Fund, the conditions of roll up, I think it creates a broader picture of what we're looking for an answer. And now, after all this where we didn't actually have a real answer, we should give our position on the motion to call it off. Unfortunately, what we can say does not have enough transparency or today it was as if the public did not need to be interested. It is actually interesting to see more Prime Minister's statements that Ramljak reported monthly, however, when it was probably in the report, and that there are dangers about the loan agreement. But it wasn't that month that we agreed on it, but let's wait until the election's over. And then they ask a question to all of us who are called populists to some anti-Croatian interest groups which I simply find difficult to do, and here my colleagues are digesting the defamation that we are a barren opposition and I don't know what else. But here we are. 15 of us will simply look for answers. But not only would Agrokor be able to list a number of other issues that, of course, open the key to the survival of this government, and that is how much this democracy that we now have is agreedly prosperous and whether it can guarantee development. Why our economy isn't developing, but we're falling as it has shown doing business. Why are we going back to the perception of corruption because we're looking at a new affair every day? Why is there no serious structural reform? Because as soon as we see that a certain reform of someone from the ruling majority has a little bit of a problem with everything stopping, everything shakes, and we are still in the status quo, and we see that even the top state officials of the Republic of Croatia are already questioning such views. Somehow I get the feeling that this government is locked up inside itself, that it only listens to what suits it and shows criticism as angry as it is in kindergarten and small children who are banned from something that is inadmissible. Here we had now, after such anger at the the thematic session of the Health Committee, none of the representatives of the ministry, it was necessary to be a minister, but one of the State Secretary, an assistant to listen to the problems of the nurses did not respond. What do you say to those people who come to such a session? What are they experiencing about this government? In fact, the image of the government is passed on to all of us who are here and finally become the cause of one shame being observed, where people resent what it is like to be a cacophony that rules here. Why does the prime minister have to be the most unpopular politician in Croatia? Even then, when we look at all the examples lately that should not be numbered up to five, we could also list more about certain affairs that are emerging, the case of Peruce, which was around this case, the Ministry of Regional Development, which then such a barren opposition as we can say about the Government in vain, Mr Plenkovic in vain. None of this support unfortunately can be given as a MOST independent list simply has nothing to say positive. The time gap shows that you do not give our people hope that there will be significant changes. Unfortunately for the word, we can't survive. Don’t blame us as opposition, too, perhaps we are arduous, as we try to impose a new topic on us each day to fight with our actions. Build key reforms, listen to all those who tell you what needs to be done. It's recent, and the IMF, we don't have to agree with them at all points, but we have to admit that at some points they're right. When the people look at the public administration, the state administration, the political structures, and they say we want reform, I think everyone here in any personal position would say that something needs to be done. However, when we need to collectively make a decision, we expect the government's proposal, we expect them to impose attitudes that should be good, to make an impact assessment. We also expect laws that we can easily measure against what will happen in future times. We are facing a series of laws relating to the development of an economic sector where no serious analysis has any impact on the economy. Of course that's the problem. The problem is that the state administration is also quantitative, and when serious procedures are to be done then we see that it is qualitatively insufficient, then it must reach out to people outside the system. But how do these people actually, how do they evaluate their work if their names can't be given or their responsibility for the possible effects of the law. Because you have to admit that, perhaps even in this assembly there are not enough of such experts who can make one extensive law like the law of Lex Agrokor estimate for one long number of years into that complexity to enter. Of course we should have experts, but then we need to know which experts they are, how they're chosen, how they're actually going to stand behind what they're proposing. Or is it the easiest colleague Bacic has said to transfer responsibility to this Parliament. That's what we'd like to trust the government, the rest of the ministry, the profession behind it. Because we see in many other areas it is very stressed that working groups are formed. There are a number of experts who participated, but in this case about lex Agrokor, that's unfortunately not so, here hides the waist. And that's why it probably is our economy, because if we were to get that profession out of Croatia, which should be evaluated for us, then the easiest thing to do is to put it under the carpet and get into this very embarrassing situation, where we are today discussing the support of the government and it is not disputed. The right side of me and the part in the middle will have enough hands. This will be confirmed that the government has not voted out of confidence, will be imaged over the opposition's incompetence, but believe me, the polls themselves say the opposition is not responsible for the state's governance. Responsibilities are always on the ruling side. One year has passed, no results. We can warn, but it's our responsibility, but we don't see it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58453	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58454	Dear fellow Panenic, I listened to your presentation, I tried to get something out of it meaningfully, but I guess I was sitting on my ears, I don't know, I couldn't understand much. However, as if our society suffers from a collective amnesia, so are you part of that society and ultimately, when the boss received a Christmas loan, the Bridge was in government. When Lex Agrokor was brought in, the Bridge was in government. You've had a year, you'll say it's been half a year now, so it's been with Karamark for almost nine months and unfortunately, reforms in that year, you know what they were? I'll tell you, I don't need a bank stamp anymore. Here. It's basically everything. You say what HDZ did in a year, huh, you removed the seals, here. That was, you were discussing staff issues, it was that debate day and night, but some other reforms nothing. Unfortunately, you said yourself that Plenkovic told you not to arrest Todorovic now. Well, of course he can't, when he needs to be let go. Why did you listen to him? Well, you shouldn't have listened to him. You should have said, we have a minister of justice and the police are going after him. Let's go to the capitals. You're, he's telling you it's not allowed now, you say, well, that's it. And that's one big one, you'd dare say mistake. A mistake that will ultimately cost you voter support. Because simply voters wonder what if I vote for the Bridge again, what I get. Specifically. People are interested in concrete solutions. Monetary reform, it's a key solution. Elimination of the currency clause on loans, termination of TV subscription, expansion of monetary policy, smaller VAT. These are the reforms citizens want. That's what needs to be made possible and I hope that one day we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58455	I thank my colleague Pernar. My colleague Panenic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58456	Dear colleague Pernar, I'd like to ask the chairman that if I can get 15 minutes to do this again, if you've been sitting on your ears. You've been sitting during this time and we've been in government, so here you've heard only the seal as such. It's probably happened many times, yet somehow it passed while you were sitting on your ears. I just hope you get a chance, get all these votes that the Bridge has, enter the government, and you won't be sitting there in your ears, but you'll be passing all the laws that will save this world. So here, that's my sincere wish. Of course, you've reached out to this little voter that's here, and we're sharing the Bridge, so it's going to spill a little bit towards you, a little bit towards the bridge. But then, when you win all of the Bridge's votes, we will actually support you and hope that the reforms will be swift, effective, that here with your colleagues you will take key places in this government, especially in the economic sector, and then no more cases of Agrokora will happen. In fact, I hope here, that any of the third options can succeed, that no one can form a government anymore where someone who doesn't have a partner will be, strength, courage, stand up, warn about what the Bridge has come out of this government. Of course this is, I'm going to try to do what I know, use it best here and here as a parliamentary representative and at my place in the bar, and I also want to do it for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58457	I thank my colleague Panenic. Next replica, dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58458	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Panenić, you said yourself, in this case we have intransparency, lack of information, as far as he doesn't want to answer questions, he doesn't want to talk, he wants a consensus, but as I said, it's a consensus on HDZ, a consensus on HDZ is what we say, support it or don't. If you don't support it, then you're not in favour of consensus. I'm a colleague, and I believe you don't think the opposition in this House is decoration. The opposition has its own mission, you said it yourself, that we're saying, that we're discussing, that we're criticizing, that we're constructive, that we're applying, that we're doing it all. We did it all, and I told my colleague Pupovac, when I replicated him, we can't get the information. I don't know if he has them, whether they're represented by minorities, those who make up most of them. But we have some key questions, answers to these key questions we cannot come up with. And who's to say, that, in order not to say, the Prime Minister, if he were willing to answer questions, he might convince us that this is the best way. But he doesn't want to answer questions. Why? Is that not in anyone's interest? Who's in the interest of who, and why? Why the Croatian public and we who at least consider myself responsible for this country, regardless of what I am in opposition, cannot know certain things. Well, I'll always say no to that kind of politics and not in my name. I'll be able to look in the mirror tomorrow morning and say I did what I could and that's loud and I clearly said some things, loudly and clearly I warned you of some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58459	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. My colleague Panenic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58460	Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, consider only that we need when a certain law is passed that we were against seems to be sitting here waiting for what will be the result in 5, 10 years. What is important about such economic laws that they should have a quick and effective effect with us because patience and towards you, me and especially towards the ruling is short fuse. Social networks are tearing us apart. So we too are not as effective as the opposition and imagine what it's like when you're in government and when you're making daily decisions, you have to deal with it and in fact the responsibility is much greater. It's my responsibility as an opposition if someone signs such a roll-up credit where they're enlisted in properties that should have been transferred long ago to local self-government. Well, we have a train station, a toilet at school, right under that supply, probably a solution. So let's put everyone in Croatia in somebody's stock and then say here's what we got credit for because no one else wanted to offer on any other terms. And then I wonder where we are as a state. So we as a state should say that we were at that time in political instability, that we had each other's politicians playing who would take over or there would be new elections and that someone else had used it, showed up. And then someone now convinces me that a scavenger fund has come to be the savior of Croatia. Personally, I'm sorry, but I can't believe it. I can't come from the practice of this fund how it's worked so far, how all such funds work. I'd even be able to be a position if some bank had seen the opportunity to finance it. But if people invest in such funds that they have extra income, then no one can convince us, there's a responsibility for all of us together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58461	I thank my colleague Panenic. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58462	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Panenic, I have come forward for this replica because you are the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and are glad to be heard here by the Minister of Agriculture. Although the minister, through the last statements, as I understand it, is a calmer public, I cannot help but assume that there is still that danger. It is about this part of Agrokor which is being hit in the agricultural sector, it is Baranja Belje, Vukovar Vupik, PIK Vinkovci, Poreč Agrolaguna, Vinka, PIK Mladina, totalling about 33,000 hectares of the state-owned country in the concession, in Agrokor. And that's on the trail and what I've replicated to my colleague Bacic, how can the state stay out of it? Well, the state has to interfere because this is a state country that tomorrow, we don't really know, we just have... The ministry that says it has the right of the ministry to make a discretionary decision on whether to cross over ownership and the country that is now in the concession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we can't know that until it happens. It's very valuable land, you know that. In fact, the word is said that Agrokor has invested in, say, Baranja Belje about 2.5 billion kunas of all the expensive funds to make those land better yields. They say Agrokor, 40% food production, is actually Agrokor. And it is asked with the right question of what will happen to this land because today and when a law on the availability of agricultural land is passed the question of how much a young man can actually get to land and here we see that the large quantities that we do not know are in whose hands he will cross. If that's what you have a comment on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58463	I would like to thank my colleague Sagaru, my colleague Panenic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58464	Dear colleague Zhagar, all of this you've listed is right there in my county, next door to you. Is there anyone with us when he mentioned Vukovar-Srijemska and Osijek-Baranja and in Brodska even County that we have land that is unprocessed? I don't know what he might identify as raw. And of course, when we look at where the Agrokora companies grouped, right on that ground. If such companies were created and processed this country when we go along the highway standing there, then I would say what we created as a policy is actually a single state-owned strategy and create a new added value. It's the easiest thing in the country that's already been arranged, where the state should contribute to the regulation of the land, where companies should engage more significantly, there's no interest in it. And let me tell you, actually to call a Croatian country where it has unengaged agricultural land in these ratios is actually unserious, it takes a lot of investment in infrastructure to make it useful land. Of course, the minister is there, he manages with, right now with the development policy of agricultural production in Croatia, we see key laws that come, we have this dispute of some, but I hope that there will be reason and understanding, not reason, understanding, I believe that reason we all have, understanding for certain objections that we have. I hope that the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on the OPGs and the Law on Unfair Commercial Practice will also create a prerequisite for us to be successful in the short term. Unfortunately, what I'm reading is new obligations, new times, and an open future where our peasants are not found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58465	I thank my colleague Panenic for this answer. We have the next line, dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58466	You say colleague Panenic that we have agreed democracy here. And me, then I ask myself whether you understand the nature of parliamentary democracy at all. Of course, it is an agreed democracy because whenever after the elections no party can form an independent power then it must resort to an agreement with another party to form power. Now that HDZ is forming power with the HNS, whether the HNS has deceived its voters, it is, but it is not the first, it is not the first. They said they wouldn't go with HDZ, and they left, and they learned it from you from Petrov, who learned that he went to the public notary, confirmed that in no way would he go with the HDZ, nor with the SDP then went with HDZ and the entire Bridge along with him. You had the opportunity to form a stable power, Milanovic offered you seven ministries. And you know why he offered you seven? Did you ask for seven and then you were in favor of a negotiated democracy when you asked for seven ministries. But you couldn't, you couldn't go back to Metkovic and go to mass because the pop would drive you out of the church, so you couldn't go with the SDP, but you went with HDZ twice, two years you've been creating a bridge, I know that you're not easily unstable in this country, you're a factor of instability. Now you're offended by the Prime Minister for driving you out of the government. And why did he drive you out of the government? Because you didn't even understand there what democracy is, that you can't bend both power and opposition and that you have to deal in your own head. And what are your results? It's not just the Seal Act, but you've also taken up space for the former president of the Republic, it's the bridge in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58467	I would like to thank my colleague Stazic for his replica. Just information as far as I know Mr. Petrov is a Catholic religion, so in the Catholic Church there are priests and friars not priests. The answer of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58468	Dear fellow Stazic, I understand your bitterness that Most was a party that ruled two terms in Croatia and that after that in Croatia I would share with you this bitterness and, of course, any factor that appeared new would be to prevent me from assuming a third term or someone more is something that bothers me and needs to be attacked. And I accept that you're attacking us and that these results that we haven't produced in that year have been compared to the two mandates you've had, that you've been acting. I just hope we get to the equivalent once, so we'll be eight years old too, and then we can compare the results and that's actually what voters expect. So you have time, prove yourself. Now HDZ currently and HNS as partners and others who support them have that time and unfortunately I am here I am concerned, not bitter but concerned about what will come of it. Is it sad to wait another three years and then maybe after you came to power again, you had the perfect opportunity to take over after the great problems that Sanader made in this country, take over, do it right, you didn't have the courage to spend. No one stopped you at the time, no social networks, no nothing else, no bridge. The bridge was created primarily during your government. The living wall was created during your government because people are dissatisfied, I can't wait any longer. But unfortunately, it's very hard to put up with again in one government that doesn't have the efficiency of a HDZ I don't know I didn't count which mandate. So that's actually where we're in the middle here. If we are a key problem then agree on each other and solve problems all in Croatia, we will not be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58469	I thank my colleague Panenic for this answer. Next replica, dear colleague Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58470	Dear fellow Panenic, don't be angry, but I really don't understand you from the Bridge, you seem to have slept through these last two years, like you're still in a trance. So you brought this HDZ government to power in 2015, 2016. What are we talking about here? You've had a great time for two years, you've done great work together, and, look at you today, they're your biggest enemies. Well, you're if we're talking about Agrokor, so you supported Lex Agrokor this law, you from the Bridge, and today you're against it. What kind of honesty and democracy are you talking about here in the Croatian Parliament? Also, as for the president's statement today, so that here is the president calling for a state of emergency, the devil sees the person who came from HDZ and who was supported by the HDZ. Here I am really interested and I would love to, here is Mr. Plenkovic here, but that Mr. Plenkovic clearly and loudly says and answers and disproves these facts. He says it's not true, so here I would like to disprove them, with which he will disprove the president and answer her loud and clear. And I'm listening to President Parliament out here where he was saying that you should ask the president. So ask yourselves, O my God, you should answer her, she called you, you should answer as far as this is concerned. There is also no Mr. Plenkovic here whom I would like to ask, what will happen, but Mrs. Dalic may be here to answer, which will happen if you as Government will not be satisfied with Mr. Ramljak's work or if Mr. Ramljak himself wants to leave or if you want to replace him. Who's gonna pay and how much is that gonna cost?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58471	I thank my colleagues, Habek. My colleague Panenic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58472	And here's exactly how your replica to me shows actually that question that goes with HDZ, and that's how serious this intention is. I honestly don't see the goal here to attack us now from the Bridge who should support your initiative, although it would harm HDZ, it just doesn't make any sense to me. I can understand I don't know that we disagree on something, okay, but here we have an interest that perhaps from different visions we can agree that the government simply doesn't function properly and that it needs some change. But if this is the way that you, colleague Stazic or I don't know who else to say that the Bridge is wrong, that it's our fault that HDZ came to power, no, if you had a successful government during Milanovic, there wouldn't be a bridge, or a Living Wall, and HDZ would squat and wait for its opportunity for maybe decades. Let's get out of it, you've had twice the chance. So she was your government twice, and she needed to sort things out, and you lost that opportunity twice. And then it's our fault. I mean, let's not say now, it turns out that we turn history upside down. To say, I can be guilty, I don't know I had in my municipality I was the chief and I can call me, what I didn't make the prosperity that the municipality became the most developed in Croatia, but I didn't have the opportunity or the resources I had, nor could I promise it. Let's go back to the programs that you had, the programs that HDZ gives. I say, in this way we're actually going to smile at them, I see that their pleasure is exactly this participation. And I hope to get another replica like this. But here are the gods who fell for it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58473	I thank my colleague Panenic for this answer. Next replica, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58474	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before I replicate my colleagues, Panenic is just a little correction for you. So, first of all, the word pop doesn't have to even though it mainly marks Orthodox priests, in... For example, in Dalmatia, the Catholic priest often does. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let’s say that “he is in the priest. ” And besides, not only are priests and friars, or monks, there are monks. Here. But it's a little correction. Our fellow Panenić, from your presentation, we are from the same area, and we are in the plains sometimes inclined to this flat-rate blouse which I, I must admit, have felt in your presentation especially before the end as if you were wondering what the point was. What can I understand? Here in response to fellow Stazic you said that we in the SDP had twice a chance so none of that and that there would be a MOST if we had been successful. You have in a much shorter time also had two chances, but your MOST was in both of these occasions like that MOST of... So above restless waters, but you can't give up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the citizens are watching us, they've chosen us all, and they expect us to bite and not give up. Do you think Prime Minister Plenkovic was great when he was in Brussels, and Karamarko was the president of the HDZ that everyone laughed at and was most unpopular ever. No, I mean, he wasn't great, but people didn't give up. It's politics, a rough sport. Therefore, I would very willingly suggest that your MOST be more, i.e. that you be more like those prisoners of war in the film "Kwai Bridge on the river" who walk proudly and do not surrender. You just need that good whistle tune, you know how it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58475	I thank Mr. Bojan Glavasevic for this stylish expression. The answer of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58476	Thank you very much. I think here's where my exposure started and these replicas got us a little liveliness. Now you know how it was without us, it was just so plain that you could always find a deal, it doesn't matter which side. Someone's always found that deal. Unfortunately, we have no problem with compromises, we have the balls, and we don't have to agree on that. It's very simple. Sometimes we might look like we're calm, we're cultural, so we can make arrangements, but no, it's not like that. Comrade Thunderbolt, here, if I may. [[/Intruder Brkić: Are you done with your colleague?]] So the views I will represent, my colleagues at the Most, will certainly not be a compromise that is to the detriment of the Croatian people. And here, if we die twice in the government with HDZ, it's because we didn't want to compromise. It may seem politically to you that by some softer approach, we could have influenced this more. And they all actually respect us, and you might have given up on it, but what would we be? Then we'd either sit on your side or on their side and there'd be no need in this environment for someone third. They'd leave it to the Living Wall so they'd have those voices. There's no need for us, I won't fight for the position of politicians ever if it's a matter of compromise, even if there's something that the MOST is trying to impose. So let's still stay where you are, where you are, where I live too, that the situation is wrong, and I can't accept myself being good because the situation isn't good. And not to accept government or anyone who's ever been before, to say, here's what we've done our best. So move everyone over there, so you should actually know, there's a colleague who knows what it's like out there. Then they'd see if there wasn't a Mercedes driving you, but simply if you didn't do something by yourself, nothing would happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58477	I thank my colleague Panenic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58478	Comrade Panenic, here we see from your debate, and from the replicas of the SDP, in fact that nothing less is their responsibility about the Agrokor case than the HDZ. It's just one mask for them, but it doesn't matter. The fact that I'm proud, in person, and I'll always be with the Most as long as we have the courage. Once a few months later, we went to the elections that we were firm, we had the cheek, we didn't want to sell it, and the second time we had the courage and I'm sorry that today is not the exceptional Minister Maric, which is at least embarrassing to the parliamentary deputies because he was not the exception. Prime Minister Plenkovic did not respond whether he was at meetings with Mr. Todorovic. I'm sorry we didn't get answers from Prime Minister Plenkovic or Martina Dalic, because we see that the whole government is smiling, of course they'll laugh while we debate. Because they're absolutely not interested in what the MPs are saying. Like SDP because of course why would Stazic praise us? As long as we are attacked by HDZ and SDP, the third option will exist. When they praise us, then we really don't want to run anymore. So I ask them both not to praise us, and I know we're a rock in their shoes, a rock. Because we're tough and we're gonna stay and we're gonna fight like we're gonna fight. Regardless of the views of Stazic, Glavasevic or anyone, Plenkovic, Seks Vladimir, they are the same puppy. They are very simple to agree on both constitutional judges, and on Agrokor, and on commissions, agencies, they are used to 4 years of each other, 4 others. And that's not gonna work for them anymore. He'll never be able to put the government back together again. This time, they put it all together by trade. Although it was fair to give the people mandates and go to the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58479	I thank my colleague Bulj for respecting his time. My colleague Panenic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58480	Dear fellow Bull, I don't expect anyone to praise us. What we learned here today, and we know about how it works, we try to resist, but what's worse when we're ignored. There's nothing worse than being ignored. Because he doesn't ignore me or you, he ignores our voters. If, for example, The government ignores the cancellation of Predrag Sekulic, then ignores the actual efforts of Croatian citizens not to close one refinery. If he ignores protests about the Perun thermal power plant, which should be given through the incentive price, to someone through the generation plant, then he just ignores Mira Bulja who's fighting for it, or ignores all those who don't want to have one. Here, I'm sufflified by a conflict of interest. I'm not talking about a conflict of interest. Because that's not the topic I wanted right now. We actually ignore people who come and want a certain change and have a certain need, they don't want to move out and we could count to 5, 10 as I mentioned a whole series of problems that are ignored. And what exactly is it? Again, we have a government now that's trying to keep all this lightly from getting the dust up, not seeing anything, that nothing significant changes, because it's the easiest thing to survive, and that's how it's four years, well, not four years, three years and six months. And then after that, those six months through some strong action, let's prove that we get another four years in office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58481	I thank my colleague Panenic. We move to the next debate on behalf of the HDS Representatives Club, HSLS, HDSSB, a respected colleague, Branko Hrg. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you for peace in the assembly so that your colleagues can discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice President, members of the government. My colleagues and colleagues, as time goes by, the martinis are getting closer and closer, so here the atmosphere, like that, the marines began to get along, and it's not that interesting, and it's not very matrimonial. The HDS, HSLS and HDSSB club will not support the government's caller's request, to say it immediately at the outset. And I'm going to say, of course, some of the reasons, although realistically, looking at these two pages, the texts, which the proposings gave to call off the government really, really, really, really, wouldn't have much to discuss. But since the government has called for 16 pages of reasoned answers, then we can also talk here today about the seriousness and those who seek the government's impeachment and seriousness that responds to their unserious demands. The other night, when the motion to recall Minister Murganic was debated, I said it was really strange for me, that in four years, the government had never once taken place, that the opposition had sought or called off by the government's minister or impeachment. Then I was told by the SDP Club that it was because the government had the support of a larger advocate fighter than this government has. And now I'm asking myself questions, and I'm asking you questions, what does that mean? Does this mean that the government, with 78 hands in Parliament, is doing a different smaller job, has less responsibility than the government with 80 or 90 hands in the Parliament? I was a long time local leader, two or three terms of office we had in the council just one more hand. Just one hand higher, on the hook, 11, 10. We did them with full responsibility as if we were 19, with the same responsibility. And it's really not clear to me today, what's all this for? What are these games for? Why is this even happening? Why do we think we entertain Croatian citizens? All of us who are serious, we know that this is no fun for Croatian citizens at all. Citizens want security, they want stability. They want to know that in the country where they live, they can expect something good to happen, and it has to move well from this assembly, which is becoming more and more unserious. The profession says that Mercator's purchase was one of the biggest failures of Agrokor. I'm asking myself a question now, does anyone remember, during which the government was purchased by the Mercator and do we perhaps think that then the government did not help in any way, that Agrokor. Do we think that all the governments that have been so far have not helped Agrokor? Mr. Vice President, if you can stop the esteemed gentleman and ass, yes... Maybe they keep talking so I can move on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58483	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Dear Sir, Your Honor, Mr. Bulj, Your Honor, Mr. Maras, Your Honor, Mr. Vlaovic, Your Honor, Mrs. Pusic, I would really like to ask you not to go in and allow him to continue the debate. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58484	Thank you very much. I continue in this part, do we think whether one of us thinks or perhaps from the Croatian public in the extreme case that any government since the '90s on here as Agrokor grew up had nothing to do with Agrokor, that it did not help Agrokor create all this? But people and SDPs were clapping and HDZs were clapping. And today we have a situation that the government led by Prime Minister Plenkovic a year after he was even elected prime minister has a situation that is happening again the new fall of Agrokor. And watch out now, for all these years behind us, it's all of a sudden Plenkovic's fault. So does anyone really think that Prime Minister Plenkovic had any chance of giving something to Agrokor or getting it from Agrokor this year? I think it's clear to everyone that it's not. But it's also clear that this is the first government and the first prime minister who decided to stand there at the ball and that it stopped looking through his fingers at Agrokor and his owner and that it stopped all together. That's a fact. That's what's going on. Every time, every government owner came. And everybody knows that, so the sparrows on the branch know that. And now that that's happened, when we have a situation that the government hasn't approved 2.3 billion as much as the owner asked so he can stabilize the company again for a while, now the opposition is moving into the government's impeachment. I'd like to ask the promoter, did you listen to what the small suppliers say? There was an excellent show open the other night. I enjoyed watching. I'm asking the promoters if you've been watching? There were representatives for you there. What does Mr. Brlosic say on behalf of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber? We're satisfied with what happened because small suppliers have been paid the most. What does the representative of large suppliers say? We support this program because we are protected and supported and therefore by Mr Ramljak and the Government in that part. What do you think people, employees of Agrokor and employees of these suppliers of large companies and smaller ones say? What do you think they're saying? Do you think they'd applaud you if you'd driven away or if we had driven Agrokor into bankruptcy? Do we really think, does anyone really think that people in Croatia would clap someone if Agrokor had gone bankrupt in that situation completely unprepared, means totally sudden. I'm asking you from the SDP, you're proposing, as promoters, whether you really think bankruptcy was the best solution, whether you support it, whether you want it. If so, I beg you, say it loud and clear, we want Agrokor to go bankrupt. The government has been set up to preserve jobs both in Agrokor and in suppliers. And that was the only possible move right now. How in what way? A solution has been found, the law has been found, it has been passed, we follow that law. At this moment, we have a situation where jobs are preserved, that of those 6.3 kunas, as much as it was in the account of Agrokor when the Commissioner took over Agrokor's state of affairs as it stabilized and that Agrokor continues to operate. You can laugh there, enjoy it, colleague Pusic, let's laugh, enjoy, let's be funny. I'm telling you, this isn't funny to anyone at all. It's not funny to me at all. And I don't think it's funny because I've never supported Agrokor or Mr. Todorovic. And I spoke personally before that it was not good for Croatia and that it would not end well. And to destroy the Croatian village with Agrokora. That's what I've been talking about for years, even putting out some rougher words on his personal account when he ruined the crusader's mill. And I have the right to say today what I think about it because I said it back then. And then, and then some who are now allowed here from the bench to speak differently and support this Agrokor and support Mr. Todorovic. Today his lawyers are here in the Croatian Parliament. That respected colleagues and colleagues. It happens exactly what's been said many times this evening and these days. Interestingly, it is interesting that today's opposition, i.e. the SDP usually protects Mr. Todorovic. You are his lawyers in Croatia, in the Croatian Parliament, you protect him. Why do you get such an impression? Well, Mr. Todorovic is attacking the government. And you're attacking the government for Agrokor. Does that make any sense in that part? If he attacks the government and you attack the government, so you're his lawyers, you're with him in some kind of a hearing. Whatever it may seem to you, but it seems to a normal ordinary man like that. But, now, let's get back to something else. There is no Mr. Bernardic here, but there is Mr. Grbin, who is on behalf of the promoter. Do you gentlemen from the SDP maybe, as they suggest, that's why I mention you as a party, do you know who Zvonimir Mršić is? Is it not a man who is very high-ranking in the SDP who is often referred to as the SDP president and even as a candidate for example by the SDP? And you know that Mr. Mršić, one of Mr. Ramljak's chief advisers, who also works for a large salary. And you know for which resistor? For food. And that's why, I don't think it's weird, because today the SDP has talked so much about agriculture and agricultural production. Because Mršić is in charge of an extraordinary administration, therefore, with an extraordinary food commissioner. So if you already know all this, and you know it, I'm asking you, did you speak in preparation for this session with Mr. Gric? You did ask him what he thought about it, because today, at the very least, he said it in the media, you should have asked him. If you asked him, then I still don't understand why you started this initiative, aware that you won't successfully speak for yourself all the time. It's like a certain masochism to me. But I'll do it again, what I said the other night. You get the impression that you're doing destruction on purpose. I said the other night, it's about hyperdistruction. You keep doing the distraction and you try to make it impossible for the government to do their job that way. Don't you think it would be smarter today, more useful for Croatian citizens and the other night and all this time holding parliamentary sessions, that we were discussing improving laws that are really bad in the Croatian state, putting them into office, that we were dealing with an increase, I don't know, minimum wages. But not for 100, 200 kuna. Not for the 100, 200 kuna you suggested, because it's the same demagogy, but for the normal amount. You think citizens wouldn't see it any other way than what they're looking at right now. What's gonna happen today? Nothing. We'll vote you probably won't all be at that vote, ate the donkey wolf, the government goes on, tighter, more stable. You'll probably have your own, a little bit more disturbed relationships, because it's not easy to get into a game that you know you're losing in advance and practically put your own nose on someone else's fist and then get your bloody nose out. Every time, the nose is getting more and more obvious. And it doesn't lead to anything. I hope that today's vote will finally end so that we all start having a more serious conversation together, that we begin to say no to each other while our colleague Pusic works all the time, but that we simply all think a little differently, talk and work for the benefit of the citizens. This job you've been doing now is not for the benefit of the citizens. You did it for discretion, you do it for the instability of society, and society, without stability, has no future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58485	I thank Mr. Brank Hrg for this debate. We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Peja Grbin's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238(6) of the Rules of Procedure, which reads that a parliamentary representative, by his conduct, must not deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. One of the basic rules of conduct in the Assembly should be telling the truth. The esteemed colleague Hrg had already set out at the beginning of his presentation with one insufferable untruth and had built up a lot of his discussions on this. And this was that the HDZ, or then the opposition, did not launch recalling ministers from the then government in 2016. Your Honor, Mr. Hrg, that's a notorious lie. The first motion for impeachment was tabled already in the spring of 2012 when the opposition asked for Mr Jovanovic's shift. I ask you to try to tell the truth in future discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58487	I thank Mr. coat of arms for this violation of the Rules of Procedure. If that's indeed true, I hope that colleague Hrg accepts it and that he will no longer make similar mistakes. We're moving on to replicas. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58488	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrg, you know the name Kuterovac, who was Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture. I asked that question in case... But the man is from the HSS, you were then the president of the HSS perhaps for a time, the man who gave and allowed Todorovic to take 300 million kn, war damage in the Vukovar area for this company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know that. But I don't understand how, suddenly and afterwards, everything that the diameter won't answer us because he was then a lawyer at the Ministry of Justice, i.e. Minister Jandrokovic, I don't understand how you're going to comment now, I'm going to ask you a question. When one leader of the ruling coalition, he says, compares General Bobetko, the hero of the Homeland War, so if we can tell the anti-fascist, because he was in the other St. The war, in the first Partisan squad. They compare it with Ratko Mladic, Dokanovic, war criminal Babic and the slayer who was convicted himself, as you comment when Pupovac tells you, I see only silence in you, as you do not think that's why they don't comment on it or the prime minister when I ask him a question. Can you compare that hero to those criminals? Is it a government that will suffer that those who have created this state in union are compared to criminals who have burned, slaughtered, raped? Soon we're all going to Vukovar, and if someone Bobetka compared to this Domakanovic, is that nice, do you have an answer to this?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58489	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58490	And say hello to your party colleague Kuterovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58491	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58492	I can't answer this part because I haven't said a word about it, not today, but never, so I have no reason to answer. As for Mr. Kuterovac, mentioned and mentioned by the government, or HSS, that he was the secretary of state in the SDP government and the HSS coalition. I didn't have much influence at the time, it seemed to me later that one part of the time in the HDZ government and HSS ok, it was good all the time. But I don't even know this data that you've provided. All I know is that a man worked in Agrokor and he quit a few years ago and left Agrokor for his bread and his job. It's the only thing I know about this man and I don't see any reason to even mention him. Otherwise, I really appreciate it, and I respect it definitely.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58493	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58494	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrg, in your debate, you have repeatedly explored why the opposition has even initiated a procedure and you have presented a very dangerous thesis, which is that the de facto opposition should not at all ask for it to be pointless because there is no obvious majority, and you ruled in your council with one voice over and everything was great. How great it was in the past elections where you were defeated, and on the other hand I must tell you, Mr. Hrg, that probably Prime Minister Plenkovic proposes that the term of office lasts six years, although our Constitution stipulates that the four-year mandates in the Croatian Parliament would have voted for it. So you're the last one to vote for Prime Minister Plenkovic's recall and this HDZ government because it's no longer back, that's it, the last song, how we're going to get back in. You are no longer with your HSS colleagues unless the HDZ receives you and puts you as Mr. Zekanovic or Mr. Dodig somewhere out of their personal desire, not because the voters would like something special. So it's really hard for you to expect you to vote for the government's impeachment, that would be a world miracle. I think I will see Yeti before you vote for Mr Plenkovic's impeachment and all of us here in Croatia, not in the Himalayas, but in Croatia. You might have seen him somewhere in the Himalayas, but here in Croatia very difficult but even sooner than you would vote against Prime Minister Plenkovic because we're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58495	Thank you. My colleague Hrg's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58496	Thank you very much. I didn't exactly tell my colleague Maras it was great or it wasn't great, but I'm curious how you guys get back at some personal stuff all the time, but I don't blame you. You climbed up that horse in Kalnik maybe you hit your head and it got a little blurry and it keeps you still here in the Croatian Parliament. So I never blame you for anything. You know it's just like that,...that stones Kalnick's hard, I grew up upstairs so I know so something probably happened to you. Maybe next time try the horse lift, you'll get better and easier in that part. And about why I'm where I am and why I'm not. I'm not in the HSS just because the HSS went with you to the coalition. I've stayed where I've been before and it's very clear and simple. I don't want one word against that party never to say, she has her own way, let her choose it, let her move with it, let her move with it however she wants and will, I have chosen my own path. He's always in the same direction and I don't have anything to say about that part. And whether anyone would support it or not, then my God, could I support you in this House? So please, do you really think I could back you up in this House? Believe me, you'd never do it if I didn't know what it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58497	I thank you for your response to Mr. Hrg. Dear Mr. Hrg, I appeal to you and to all other colleagues and colleagues that in our discussions and answers we do not disdain our colleagues and that we do not really say words in this House that do not correspond, that is, of course, to a colleague of Maras before. But here we have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58498	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 238 has been broken down by colleagues. I really have to admit one thing to you, you have a sense of humor, so if your career here in Parliament stand up comedy means it's a profession that opens your door wide and really smiles often. But today I still have to tell you whether I'm very sorry to see you after your president's presentation that there was no smile on your face, I felt very sorry for you and those bowed heads. I was just looking at the video, look at that video, see how, how little you've broken your fingers, how you've looked at the floor and how you've blushed. And there will be more opportunities, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58499	Comrade Zekanovic, do not do to others what you do not want him to do to you. So with one demeanor you made another. So I'm really asking you, in the future Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, don't abuse yourself because I'm going to give you a warning. Thank you very much. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58500	Thank you very much. It was injured in 238 by colleagues Zekanovic and colleagues Hrg. I must admit that I feel rather uncomfortable next to these enormous Croatian policies of Hrga and Zekanovic because with their arguments they convinced me that I was wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58501	Dear colleague Maras, I don't know if I'm clear enough and loud enough, so that irony of yours, it's clear what it means behind it, but I beg you don't do it anymore. You already have one yellow card, as I recall, still left my chairmanship of the previous one, so don't think I haven't forgotten. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58502	Thank you very much, Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure say that other MPs cannot be belittled. So please, my colleague Maras and I were in the same constituency. There we fought the most fiercely who would get more votes on the same list and not let you insult me, Maras. What is it, but don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58503	Thank you very much. I have warned before that we are not belittled so that there was no need for this but good. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58504	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238, here's fellow Maras repeatedly insults but I apologize to my colleague Maras for saying he fell from horse to head.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58505	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58506	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hrg, you must accept that you have become the inner element of the ruling coalition. You know for a fact that the key things when they changed in HDZ that the influence was on the outside, the departure of Prime Minister Sanader after the problems he caused, the external pressure was on and there he simply had to give in. And then it happens for the first time, here, if I can ask the prime minister, if he leaves the position for someone else to run...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58507	Dear, esteemed Mrs. Dark-Taritash. Prime Minister, please do not disturb the speaker in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58508	What it is, for the first time, has proved that a party as a MOST can also be a member of the government and warn about problems. Don't forget that HDZ also approved the loan to Agrokor and that everything was fine. Only after I, if I may ask, has it become a shame, so I can't seem to get any expression. Only when MOST began to warn about problems was HDZ encouraged to take some action. After that, there is no real solution but we just solve Todorovic and everything else is OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK, it's OK. This is all the assumptions that HDZ implies and you who support that they are good for Croatia. And then when you turn that we are, in fact, insinuating, even us as Todoric's lawyers, then it turns out that Bozo Petrov didn't file charges against Todorovic. And I'd ask to keep an eye on who's running and who's ultimately responsible because we're working out today and we're discussing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58509	I thank my colleague Panenic. Comrade Hrg's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58510	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Panenic, I have not mentioned MOST in a single word. I'm sorry if you found yourself in any part of it. What's a fact, I said that all governments from the '90s to this government supported Agrokor and his owner. And this is the first government and first prime minister to say stop. That was mine I was saying, nothing else. I addressed only to the SDP only the reasons why they were formal motions for the government's impeachment. And that's all I said, so, but well, you've taken a little bit of this time to say a few more sentences about the positions of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58511	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrgo, for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the IDS, PGS, LRI, dear colleague Giovanni Sponza. ... And I apologize, on behalf of the motionary, dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you are. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58512	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg, you are the support pillar of the ruling coalition. And that's why I'm going to take this opportunity to pick up where I left off after the presentation of my colleagues from the HDZ Club, to tell you about other things that this government has to go for. And I stopped, and here I am glad the lady came in, and I stopped right around Mrs. Martina Dalic. Although I said I would not only talk about Agrokor, I must point out a shameful statement, where Mrs Dalic said it was completely irrelevant for the Croatian public who worked on the Agrokor Law. I personally asked the question in April to tell me who these famous co-authors are, who are these famous legal and economic experts who collaborated on the project. Do you know what answer I got? That the government doesn't have a record. Mrs. Dalic obviously did not notice that future Commissioner Ramljak worked with her on this law. Well, she missed it, she doesn't know, she forgot. It's the government you support. But to say it's the only crime Mrs. Dalic would be the easiest thing to say funny, wrong or anything. Mrs. Dalic is currently in several proceedings before the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest. In one of these procedures, she was given a warning that she should not decide in any of the INA-related actions. And what's going on? The Prime Minister is leading her, calling for a meeting of the Nationalisation Council of the INA, as if nothing had happened. It is as if the institutions we have introduced to ensure purity in the Croatian politics we need do not exist. But that's not all, Mrs. Dalic forgets to report that her husband is getting bonuses with his employer, who is measured at over a hundred thousand kunas. And do you know who the employer is? Well, INA, of course. Let's move on, Nina Obuljen, taking Mr. Ilcic as his advisor. Mr. Ilcic, who had to fly once, I'm sorry that Mr. Stier, from the Foreign Ministry, is not present here now, where he was an adviser to a small matter of 10 thousand kuna per month, with his salary. How much will Mr. Ilcic receive for a counseling post now is not known to anyone. Let's move on, Prime Minister Mr Plenkovic from this pay phone, before becoming Prime Minister spoke about changes in the law that should have been regulated by the number of state officials in the Republic of Croatia, he talked about how we needed to introduce state secretaries, how we would reduce the state administration and red tape. And what did we get? 151 officials in the government of the Republic of Croatia, more than ever. Compared to the government, the SDP rises by more than 20%. Of course, of course, the increase in costs in the corresponding amount. Prime Minister, your Ministry of Foreign Affairs, under the orders of Mr Stier and in the cooperation of his then State Secretary for European Affairs, Mrs Pejcinović-Buric, has failed to intervene and join the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, which concerned the return of refugees to the Republic of Croatia. Switzerland, which was not a member of the EU, considered a similar... in the process, although it was the return of refugees to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You and your government considered it completely irrelevant even though it was a decision that could have inconceivable consequences for this country. Prime Minister and Mrs. Dalic, nationalisation of the INA and privatisation of HEP, we do not know after almost a year how much it will cost us or what we will do with the INA when we nationalize it. Except we know that nationalization will be paid by privatising HEP. Hey, EU Member States are thinking about banning internal combustion engines and we're going to nationalize an oil company with money from the sale of an electricity company. So who's crazy here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58513	I thank my fellow coat of arms. We have several replicas, the first replica of the respected colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58514	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Grbin, I'm sorry you weren't in the assembly this morning, otherwise I've rarely seen you in the assembly lately, I see that you stop by here and there, probably just toss a card so you don't get taken from your cobwebs. And you have a great salary, I guess, like all of us here, 16, 17 grand, some other board, probably a little bit more, right? And then you dare, you who do not come to work but come here and there you dare call someone else for his compensation, a man who is an expert and who will knowingly do your job. I still have one more reason why I'm sorry you weren't in the Parliament this morning, but you can make up for it to look at the situation this morning when, on behalf of the promoter, your party president, Bernardic, spoke of a shift, or recalling the government. Your colleagues who are lower in growth, they managed to put their heads under the table and you wouldn't unfortunately, your head would peek still so that it would be very interesting to see what it would look like. But the same is interesting and the next thing you big party SDP in power, really here, it's fantastic something, so coherent, internal relations and it's really great, you have, in fact you're not at all concerned with HDZ anymore, but there's a problem Mr. Hrg, HRAST, Zekanovic is your problem, the small party says 0.5%, 1%, there's no vote at all. Well, that's about your strength, that's about who you are but couples, you're not even up to your knees anymore, and here's the HRAST is here and free, we're here, we're going to face you, we're going to fight and you're still blushing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58515	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. My colleague Zekanovic, I would ask you to choose words in this House and do not belittle fellow MPs with your debate. Mr. Grbin, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would ask you not to ask Mr. Zekanovic to choose words because he is precisely in his own words showing who he is and what he is. I'm not going to talk about why I haven't been here in the last few days. The reasons are medical, and I wouldn't want them. But as far as my work in the Croatian Parliament is concerned, he has several things to say about him. It speaks of the number of acts I have prepared and which I have referred to in the procedure and as a representative of the position and today as a representative of the opposition. This is also the number of votes I received on the last two election cycles on which parliamentary deputies are elected by a preferential vote. But when I mention Mr. Ilcic, I don't mention him for HRAST. HRAST is as you yourself said a stranger, mined. So what 0.5%. That would be a reach for you. I'm talking about those who are so gentleman... with such attitudes, ready to be admitted to the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm talking about Mr. Plenkovic. I'm talking about Mr. Plenkovic, who has a need and personally stood up for a man who had to fly from a counseling post once. And why is that? Because of your attitudes. Not that they're not fit in the 21st century. In the 20th century, they were considered backwards. Mr. Zekanovic, you are in this House, you are elected, you absolutely have the right to be here and you absolutely have the right to speak. And I'm asking you to speak as much as possible. Because you don't talk about yourself like that, but you're talking about a party whose gratitude you've been elected to the Parliament, because on your own merits and political strength, we would never be here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58517	I would like to thank my colleague Grbino for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58518	Thank you very much. I volunteered for the replica, only because you had my colleague humped me a couple of times apostrophe. It would be interesting to hear your opinion in the 7th session of the Parliament, about the ministers at the time, if perhaps for a few of them, all the same as you have now stated as Deputy Prime Minister. You know you would. But okay, that's not why I answered. I wanted to actually commend you in the replica, I see you weren't involved in the preparation, this call in the government recall papers. Because if he did, he'd probably be much more quality-crafted and written.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58519	I'd like to thank my colleague, Hrg. A colleague's response to the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58520	Dear colleague Hrg. If you feel that some colleagues from the SDP government have committed crimes, mistakes, in the way that Mrs. Dalic did, I ask you to come out and say by name and last name who did what. Otherwise, what you're doing is just insinuating. I'll do it again. The panel on conflict of interest, Mrs Dalic, has made clear criticism and warning that it must not participate in INA-related procedures. But just as Mr. Maric, when it came to Agrokor, felt that it was an exception to the mental noun, so did Mrs. Dalic and participated in procedures in which she was not allowed to participate because of the conflict of interest. If someone from our government did this, please tell us who's name and last name and you'll proceed in front of the committee. If a SDP official of the Government has failed to report a bonus paid in a company that is owned by the Republic of Croatia, which exceeds 100000 kn, then get up by name and last name. And as for the very vote of confidence, this is Parliament, Parliament, we address Parliament in a drunken way and in an oral way. Agrokor is absolutely the most recent decision this government has made, and I will say free to enter the top 5 worst decisions of Croatia's independence. And it absolutely replaces everything else. And my goal is to show, just one more thing, if there wasn't one thing about Agrokor, this government would still, because of the 10th and 10th things that had to go. Because this is like your coalition partners said until yesterday, the Titanic government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58521	Thank you, colleague Grbin, for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58522	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am not used to you in this light to listen and watch here in the Croatian Parliament. As a rule, you come up with arguments without shouting. And I saw you at the pay phone, this time where you tried to make up for that lack of arguments by shouting. As far as writing the Extraordinary Administration Act. We've already said that 50 times. And now I'm going to tell you again, so the Ministry of Economy together with the Department of Justice has been preparing that law. In this regard, given the complexity of matter, they contacted, collaborated with a number of academic community experts. But no matter who wrote the law. You're a lawyer, you know the drills. The moment the bill was signed by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and sent him to the Parliament, the responsibility for the bill was assumed by the government headed by the president. The moment we, as parliamentary representatives, voted the law here in the Croatian Parliament, we also assumed the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament for the law. As for the conflict of interest, you do not personally, but SDP is the last party in Croatia to talk about it. At the time of Zoran Milanovic's government, there was no minister who was not in conflict of interest. When Mr. Lesar reported you for a conflict of interest, for going to the hearing, there was little, this van, so you took the bus. Look, read it, so I don't list your names right now, there's no need because it's almost all government to do. And now you tell your colleague Hrg to tell him who it was. So read, then, a little bit, Google on this, on the pages, on the committees, and you will see no minister in conflict of interest. And you resent it, and it is a crucial fact that I should resign Mrs. Dalic for that reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58523	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. A colleague's response to the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58524	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. The decision of the State Commission to control the procurement procedure, the State Commission, in the case of the Gralac, is not an argument to you? The decision that says, let your colleague speak now, and you keep quiet, Mrs. Gristle, without a direct contract procedure, has assigned a 10 million kuna job to her acquaintance. The decision of the Committee for Conflict of Interest in the Dalic case is no argument, the recommendation of a clear sentence that you must not, you must not, are not an argument but are being broken. Of course it's no argument for you because if we think of other cases like Fimi Media, these are here now not to say what. However, when we talk about who was involved in law-making, you get into a serious mistake. Today in the democracy that Croatia wants to be, everything from the first day the law started to work until the moment the law was passed. It's a public debate, it's a working group, it's important who made comments about how they were coming into it. And it is especially important when Minister Dalic, the Deputy Prime Minister, says that there is no record of who wrote the law, and then we find out from his mouth that Mr Ramljak participated in the writing of the law which a few days later becomes an extraordinary commissioner, and all this time he meets with a scavenger fund, and that is the otherwise used name for such funds in the United States with representatives of the scavenger funds who bought the Agrokor debt for 30%, and then under the treatment of Mr Ramljak, he gets 100% of his values, and then my esteemed colleague Bačić has everything to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58525	I thank my colleague Grbino for his reply. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the PGS of LRI, a respected colleague, Giovanni Sponza. And once again, I apologized for calling you and Mr. Grbino. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58526	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here's some full 11 hours we're discussing the impeachment of the government of the Republic of Croatia, and we're actually discussing one topic, the topic of Agrokora, a subject that's important. And I'll let myself know that it would be worth it to get two lessons out of this discussion at least. The first is that we had a meeting and a call from all parliamentary parties as it was when we made a decision on the arbitration procedure with our Slovenian neighbours, the question of whether this debate would take place in the Croatian Parliament, if there were to be a further question whether it would go during and such dynamics. After this debate, is it more clear to the citizens of Croatia about the situation in Agrokor that I leave it to the citizens themselves? The IDS Club, the PGS, the LRI reported on this topic, and our review will be from one other angle from another, and I'll start in a way that at three weeks when we discussed the government's work report, I mentioned that the government lacks first determination, and I said that the government has no clear vision, and today I want to strengthen the claims for an additional two reasons, which is why our club will vote on the government's impeachment. It's mistrust and intransparentity. In just a year, the government has completely lost citizens' trust. This drastic decline in confidence has also been recorded by all relevant public opinion polls, as you yourself know the percentage of citizens who do not support government policy at the time the government received mandates was 31%, today 63%, which means that citizens' mistrust in the government has increased by double. Also, more than 70% of citizens feel that the state is going in a bad direction, and I point out that not because these data and these percentages are not known but because there is no security, no stability without trust in this society. From our point of view, I'll state the reasons, the facts, the arguments why it's there. First of all, the government didn't start, let alone carry out any reforms. I will be specific and say what I mean about reforming the judiciary that is most important from our point of view, which is necessary in order to restore citizens' confidence in the judicial system and strengthen the rule of law, to a common tax policy that needs to go in the direction of reducing the tax press towards the economy with the aim of encouraging investment, with the aim of creating new jobs, and thus increasing the net wage of workers, to a curriculative reform that our young people need to prepare for the labour market and for decentralisation. The vast majority of people who consider themselves to be the right to provide decentralisation were not one day at the executive level of government, not one day were they, sitting in certain institutions, in certain accelerations, and not one day were they responsible for making decisions. We've been using a model over the past 25 years that hasn't produced any results. Finally, we need to understand that the state level should show responsibility to municipalities, cities and counties because they know best what their citizens' needs are and what their community needs are. Second, the government does not implement informed policies. We had the opportunity to make sure of that from the real estate tax proposal to the inappropriate proposal of the Family Law. The government has no power to make clear decisions. The huge state property remains untapped, legal status is unresolved, senseless disputes between state and local level are still ongoing, large taxpayers' money is spent, investments are blocked, large revenues are lost, jobs are lost, and no one is responsible in this country. As a third government, there is no vision, and the result is reflected on all relevant scales that measure the country's business climate. For example, on a scale doing business Croatia has in two years from 39 to 51 places and this confirms that neither this composition of the Government has thought or developed, nor an economic strategy. As the fourth strengthening of radical conservative initiatives. Instead of first the government directs its energy to the points that bring us together to run faster, because this Croatia, this society has to run faster to be competitive. The government will allow me to say this again and again, by my inaction, let the ideological debates that have actually become the key lever of political trade, which unfortunately depends on both the government and the parliamentary majority. Ultra conservative initiatives are seriously chasing basic civil rights, and the government either denies them or supports them as in the case of the Istanbul Convention. I don't know how much you talk to the citizens, but because of such views of exclusion, the intolerances of citizens feel rightly unprotected. And in the end as a fifth intransparency. This non-communication pattern has mostly come up with exactly what we've been talking about tonight and all day, which is the Agrokor case that the public still doesn't know anything about. And what little she knows, she's mostly found out under public pressure. I will repeat what I recently said about this speaker and I said Agrokor is an economic bomb that citizens still have almost no information, and what citizens have a chance to see is only cross-fire on the Vlad Todorovic route. For this reason, most citizens believe that the state is going in the wrong direction. Due to all this confidence in the government, only in a year has been halved, and a government that lacks the trust of citizens is hardly able to rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58527	I thank my colleague Giovanni Sponzi for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58528	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Sponza, I had to answer because I was very surprised by your attitude and your opinion. This much criticism, this many hard words at the expense of the government's work. Tell me, what are you offering? What do you suggest? Is it an early election again? Lose 110 million kuna again, 6 months? These MPs receive another six months of full pay, so new elections, new expenses, new deputies? What are your views, and what is your opinion on European funds? Do you know what happens when early elections occur? I was very surprised by your attitudes and what you would suggest. As for cities, municipalities, the prime minister's county and this government are the first to regularly hold such meetings with both mayors, mayors and mayors. They listen very well to all of us in the field and what we need. And you say nothing for all of this about GDP growth, the financial praises we get out of this country, you say this again, nothing is right. And then what are you offering? So gather 76 hands, gather! If this government doesn't do anything, well, this majority does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58529	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58530	Dear colleagues, first of all I thank you for your replica. You were the mayor, I was the mayor. And I learned one very important thing, that talking to people from every man regardless of his schoolwork, regardless of his workplace, I can always learn something. We at the IDS Club if you listen carefully to any of the three of us debates always want to do what we point to and argue. I believe you could read a lot out of my debate. If you think that citizens really are satisfied with the situation in the judiciary, then we have a serious problem. If you really think that the overall tax policy is encouraging and that it should and is worth working on, I hope we agree. If we were both mayors, I believe we have a touch point that can connect us tomorrow in the debate to make our contribution to finally going towards decentralisation. If we understand the problem of state property that's huge, I'm talking about ice, I'm talking about unused money, I'm talking about unnecessary disputes. At the local level when I was mayor, I experienced myself as a state-run deputy at a local level who worked in the interest of this country. I'm a citizen of this country. Through this debate, I wanted to act incentivically and point to what we need. I'm looking for a point that connects us in our debate. And listen to me, that was at first said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58531	Thank you. Now we are going to the debate of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58532	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Here we are at 13 hours of this debate on the trust of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Just as the number of MPs had dried up, so the number of members of the government went down. First of all, I want to say, what I said and a few times today, if it hadn't happened that the banks told Todorovic not to give you more credit, you're over-indebted, you're never gonna get it back, this government would never move its finger to do anything to at least try any irregularities around Agrokor to solve it. Like all of the previous governments, from the first, second, and today, to the fourteenth, they would in turn worship Todorovic, customerism would flourish, problems would continue to accumulate, hoping that one day in the future, someone would come skilled enough to solve it. We've also been listening all day to the left and right, who's more or less responsible. All governments so far are responsible and all of them are MPs, many have been elected 3.4 or more times here, who in one way or another have held most of the governments that allowed overrun policies, which allowed irregularities around Agrokor. I could never, for moral reasons, support a government that tolerates such irregularities. Not one day could I be in a government that allows some of the following irregularities. I made a list so I wouldn't forget them, because there's a lot of them. Just acquisition of capital and property. How'd the Jamnica get? I have said several times that Zagrebačka County has been abolished and connected with the City of Zagreb, that Todorovic would buy Jamnica for small money, and Branko Mikša, who made it possible to work in Agrokor today, accidentally. Infringement of labour rights, broadcasting of bonds without cover, payment of bonuses, colleagues and colleagues. Lotto in Croatia is kuna. But, no, Todorovic broadcast his currency, as at the time of the feudal anarchy, when the feds, as a state in the state, obstructed power, then the king and whom the monarch himself broadcast his money. HBOR's favourable loans were thrown into the wind, 25 loans of 900 million, all returned, by HBOR, from the Adriatic Bank 100 million, although it was not capable of it. Pressure on suppliers to agree to postpone payments, and many were killed because they simply could not. There was also a primary show of money, so, for printing money, for buying corn in '91. ahead of the guessing case. Payments were abnormal for a year and more, people waited to get their money. Well, I don't know what to say, but there's no such thing as business in Zimbabwe. Cheap concessions, land and water sources. Never on paid concessions, such as the Smokvica case, the island, where it is estimated that the total damage to maritime well-being and the concession of about 230 million kuna, although 1 million kuna, and 10 kuna, is estimated to be in the tax administration, some minister should have asked a question. Not a single minister in the last 10 governments, not all 14 were during Smokes, was nothing to charge the state,... Let Todorovic go, let him do what he wants, and as he goes, he goes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The withdrawal of a billion kuna for personal needs and needs of the family, not paying taxes, the extent we hope to know only one day, the withdrawal of money from the country, is a lot of money drawn from this country. What our institutions have done to examine very little. How are Kulmer’s palaces and other assets tightened? Malversion with spatial plans, reluctant tax inspections against Agrokor's firms, almost 20 years old. So I noted that out of 170, some 600 companies that fall under the office of large taxpayers in 170, 20 years there was no control and are mostly Agrokor companies. The passing of special laws for Ivica Todorovic, so this government of Minister Marić in tax reform and before and after her amended the Accounting Act, the Factoring Act, and the Lex Agrokor itself was made for the sake of Todorovic and for the sake of Agrokor. Now if all these governments were worth anything, and they weren't doing much good, and the MPs were wondering what was going on, then they'd say, I'm not going to be in the ruling majority, I'm not going to be a minister in the government that lets as some group of workers pay pâtés or bons. I will not be in power of the ruling majority of such a country. But don't wave, don't touch. If the crossings were valid, they would never allow their ministers and mayors not to charge concessions. Me here personally could not be a minister, nor do I know, a parliamentary representative or in power and in the municipality and in the county that tolerates such lawlessness. A lot of people didn't mind that. Not a bit. So what difference does it make if I don't know what you want. What's acquired are Kulmer's court as acquired, so there's no connection, what? Like it matters. Who cares if you win it that way, Belle? Who cares that when Todorov was short of money, he couldn't get from the banks, then he invented the bonuses, so he somehow made the surrogate money, so he invented the bonds, so he made the surrogate money and everything else he didn't do. The Christmas loan was invented for Ivica Todorovic. Still waiting for the commission and watch to which money was laundered through Serbia. Furthermore, as our judiciary has acted on Agrokor, we have here criminal charges, KRD581326 and 1032 from 2011 and 2009 which have not been handled by colleagues and colleagues to this day. For 8 and more years, the state's attorneys have not made a state's attorney's decision. If we're going to chase him, whether there's a foundation or not, we won't throw it away. So that the damaged person only takes the punishment. Eight years. Aren't you ashamed to be a member of a government who's mass suffering this sort of thing, the total lawlessness of a collapsed institution? You and your representatives say that the Living Wall is breaking down institutions. No, gentlemen, you've brought them down. In eight years, no criminal charges are handled. I won't mention that whole epic about the functioning of the Croatian judiciary, it's a similar thing. Irregularities, illegalities, conjectures, the strong grip of all governments and the private capital of Ivica Todorovic, from conversion and privatisation to today. And then when I look at the discussion of the transfer from left to right who was changing the HANFA Act or when they were... More notes or whatever was mentioned, I say he just mocked a pot pot and they're both hollow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If one of the governments was worth anything long ago, Ivica Todorovic would have put an end to all this. Would a normal developed Western country tolerate this for five minutes? No way, so no way. It would immediately be handled by any of these things, at the same time. We're a long way from that, very far away. And that's what's sad. Time's running out and we're standing in place. We're hunting our tail. Mr. Plenkovic, today you said you didn't choose to intervene in the case of Agrokor, that's what happened on your desk, that's what happened. What a mistake in rhetoric, in attitude. And you had to deal with Agrokora. The first day you became Prime Minister, the first thing you should have done, asked your ministers from Shuker and Dalic and others who certainly knew about this and they should have told you, you should have asked them about it and we will tell them today Croatian peoples, Croatian citizens will deal with all the crime in Agrokor and not only in Agrokor but in all similar cases. Not just the first day of the campaign, you were supposed to say that. That this government is worth anything, is as good as most of those in the context of Agrocora before it as I said before. So I'm asking for responsibility, first of all, for the politicians. Todoric, I guess we'll be dealing with him for 10 years as well as Sanader, so extradition, then trial, then demolition, then repetitive, then review, judgment and all that. I'm looking, if and... Listen, I'm asking politicians and officials to respond to those who didn't go into inspections from those who took down criminal charges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let Ivica Todorovic take with him at least 10 politicians, officials and at least 30 officials so that this country can experience some kind of lustration. We're bombarded with different information, there's a lot of confusion, there's water going on, there's a lot of it going on. What will be the truth in the end, I don't know, probably the ones who are at the source of the information. I just want to say from here that I'm looking for the truth and that I want the truth to be known. We have here a conflict of interest groups, on the one hand the Russian capital, the state capital of Sberbank, on the other hand the Knighthead fund. No wonder that line Knighthead-Dalic-Ramljak is a very strong line. However, Minister Dalic had a career perspective at the IMF. It is unacceptable, I repeat again, that so many years of default has been tolerated, so place yourself in the position of a small craft or an OPG or a d.o.o. that he produced I don't know, tomatoes or salad for Agrokor, for Konzum. We want for them, for all those who have been ruined, who have not been paid in time, who have been blackmailed by the monopolies Ivica Todorovic, we want to work for them special laws? No, they're private firms to tell you about the viaduct. The bankruptcy is something we're not going to be able to avoid, it's simply too long, it's too long to allow this problem to grow, we've been running away from reality, and we've been running away from facing reality, I haven't won, and I've asked one 4.5 times, and Mr. Prime Minister and his MPs, which will be after a year, 15 months when this law ceases to apply whether there will be bankruptcy anyway. Here you are constantly mantracing that, here's the law, here's the job, here's the suppliers paid off like this, what your story will be in a year. God forbid, as the Prime Minister tried to insinuate, we don't want the destruction of Agrokor, that this should never have happened, this should have been solved long ago. We're still waiting for the answer, and I'm asking you again, is there going to be a bankruptcy of Agrokor, is there going to be layoffs, is there going to be a failure of the company, is there going to be another wave of bankruptcy, or are you going to postpone it again? We don't have an answer to that, but that's why we're being forged into the stars of the law that introduced us into a process that we don't know how it's going to end. Instead of building a modern economy, we have this feudal mastodon that has happened in every way possible. In the year 4.10, why was there a change in the bankruptcy code that could read the provisions to expect Agrokor’s bankruptcy? It's just some of the questions I believe I won't get an answer again. But it doesn't matter, they're set, there'll be phonograms. As for the general work of the Government, I could talk now about the case of the Bug or some 3rd, 5th, but I'll say only what I've repeated several times, whenever there's been some kind of collapse of the Government or a similar topic, so we don't have an institution reform. HRT over a billion kunas a year, I don't know when I watch Dnevnik, I rarely watch it, I could say it's "The Plenkovic Show". What's going to happen to the CNB that's deeply involved in the case of Agorkor, nelados, conjecture? The organization of state property, the problem in the DORH, some I've listed. So I keep repeating these five, six similar institutions. Then some reform of the local self-government unit, judicial, that's all there is to it. The only attempt at reform was that tax reform, but thin, very thin, too little, too late. That's the end I'd just like to repeat, so the Living Wall is looking for responsibility first of all for politicians, all those who allowed Ivica Todorovic to come to this at all, who allowed all these irregularities and crime here that I counted even more likely. He's just gonna show up. And the official and the clerk, and then, of course, everyone in Agrodor who was responsible. At the time of Eve Sanader and during the trial after his fall, the defendants were telling me everything Ivo Sanader told me. Because I won't let you or the Living Wall won't let you say it's all the fault of Ivica Todoric. You are responsible and will have to pay for the damage you have done to the Homeland and for the damage you have done to the Homeland. It's time for this government to step down. If someone thinks it's normal not to act on criminal charges for 10 years or to pay pâtés workers, they really shouldn't be in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58533	We have two replicas. First of all, he's a respected colleague of Bunjac's, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58534	Thank you very much, Reverend Sincic. You were talking about how the government and the institutions were awake in the case of Agrokor, and I dare say they were blind by healthy eyes. We have a case that, already in 2014, Agrokor was in charge of his throat and that no Croatian bank wanted to give him credit anymore, so he decided to win, ask the Russian bank for a loan, but the Russian bank wouldn't give him credit before he pawned the entire property through the so-called. PIC bonds and all over the Netherlands. And then Ivica Todorovic in the Netherlands founded two fictitious companies. One was called Agrokor Projects, and the other Adria Holding B.V., through which they became the fact that they overcame Agrokor and through these companies, means through the Netherlands he owed himself in a way that the debts became greater than the value of the company. From that moment on, four years have passed, three and a half and a half years to this day, no one from the government responded to it from the tax institutions, USKOK, DORH, but they allowed this year in 2017 that Ivica Todoric himself paid off a 700 million kuna loan in such a way that he could not return, or that he himself could not be charged. And now the question is, what were the institutions doing? What are we talking about now? What Knighthead and I don't know the roll-up? You had everything black on white three years ago and nothing was done. Whose responsibilities we're talking about right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58535	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58536	Thank you, comrade Bunjac. So it's just amazing that we have so many so many important again inefficient institutions that it can happen that after the review entered, one expert review by the parties in Agrokor and determined the state that suddenly everyone knows everything. Those who worshiped him from the media, to politicians and governments, and did not dare touch any segment concerning Agrokor at all. Now all of a sudden when the banks have decided to end up changing their story, they want to be among the winners. Suddenly, they remember what someone once reported to them and what they were supposed to do, charge, and now they're not guilty, but someone else did it. We've never been in power, nor would we at all, and how some of us can even think about collating with those who allowed or did nothing to prevent this. In power, you know what Todorovic is doing or someone told him, one of yours in the government knows or from the MPs, and yet you remain in that power. It's just incomprehensible to me. I could never be in such a story, working with this evil, inefficient way of managing. And then they say that, you have to coalition to change something, but the truth is totally opposite. It's because they've had all kinds of coalitions with which nothing's been done all this time, and it's one not hydra, but one powerful mystic animal that's been networked from all sides. And very hard to fight against her be assured. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58537	Now it's my dear colleague Pernar's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58538	Dear counterpart Sincic, you asked Prime Minister Plenkovic the next question. You asked him if the lex Agrokora bankruptcy was avoided. Namely, the most repeated mantra of Andrej Plenkovic in the entire debate is we have avoided bankruptcy, if we were not there would have been bankruptcy. If we hadn't done Lex Agrokor, Agrokor would have gone bankrupt, etc. etc. So the crown, the essence of the entire story of the demagogue, the populist one told by the prime minister, is that HDZ is with these moves, these vulture funds, which has not already avoided the bankruptcy of Agrokor. And then, seeing that farce, you ask him, Mr. Prime Minister, did you really avoid bankruptcy or did you just postpone him for 15 months and ask him, Mr. Plenkovic, please give me a direct answer to that question. Whether bankruptcy is avoided or not, is it avoided or not? Our thesis is, and I believe the thesis of anyone who has any salt in their head is that the bankruptcy of Agrokor is inevitable because of the accumulated debt and that this law is bankruptcy only avoided, not removed as a solution. However, the prime minister cowardly avoids answering that question, does not give an answer, is philosophizing. I ask him here a hundred times or one hundred fifty times or a million times whether the HDZ's bankruptcy policy has been avoided temporarily or really avoided he will not answer that question. And you know why my colleague Sincic? So because he knows that his story about how they saved Agrokor from bankruptcy is a heavy demagogy, a heavy pulsism that a dog with a mass couldn't eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58539	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58540	Thank you. My colleague Pernar, where happiness is to be okay with Agrokor, to be restructured, to continue production, to keep people working, to hire even more people in Croatia, agriculture has huge potential, and that there are more Agrokors to compete with each other, not to pay water 10 kuna. However, if we look at why this has happened in the first place, except for favoring and converting and privatising, the problem is also a lack of sovereignty from monetary, fiscal, end-of-the-end credit. So why were they even looking for any solutions abroad, sometimes suspicious like this Knighthead fund? Well, because we don't have credit sovereignty in Croatia and we don't have enough of our own bank, our own capital to lend our economy and support our economic policy. We are here at the full mercy of capital, corporations, and whoever knows anything about the EU will easily tell you that the EU's political structures are highly linked to corporations and that it is the government of bureaucrats and banks and related corporations. So, in a system like this, in this configuration, if you want in this condition on the chess board, there will be no solution and again if Agrokor does not change the system again, the story will happen again and then we will start again. We didn't think of anything, it wasn't our fault, and the citizens suffer from day to day. It's just unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58541	Let's move on with the club debates. We've got three more clubs. It is the first club of the Labour and Solidarity Party, SMSH, Reformist and Independent Representative of the Honored Fellow Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58542	Dear Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, colleagues and colleagues. Here after 12 hours in the Parliament I listened very carefully to all the debates directly or on television at the club so I will try not to repeat myself, I will try to be brief, but I am obliged because of my own responsibility to the public and to the citizens because I voted in favour of the adoption of the Law on the procedure of the extraordinary administration in commercial societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, however, to refer to the motion for a vote of confidence in the Government and to give my opinion and the position of the club to which I belong. First, this law that I don't know for what reason we called it lex Agrokor, it applies today to the Agrokor concert, tomorrow maybe to someone else. So if we can only bring this whole law down to Agrokor then we haven't really solved anything. It's true and it's true that it's a private company, private property, and it could be said and the government could tell the owner to lose everything and keep his pants on the stick. Yes, and what about more than 50 thousand employees working in this system of Agrokora, what about 150 thousand employees working in the suppliers of Agrokor? A solution should be found and the state should only dance in a way that creates a legal framework, that creditors, suppliers agree on how to collect their claims, without entering the ownership relationship and nothing else has been proposed by the Government. She suggested the truth of the commissioner elected in the final line by the court. He's doing the work of the former administration, but who's actually running the business of Agrokor, who's actually solving the problem of Agrokor? Only believers, without a decision by the religious council, have no decision by the government's commissioners, but must be approved by the court. Therefore, I would like to refer precisely because the government has chosen direct state intervention not only on the allegations contained in the proposal, and it says that the government has chosen direct state intervention. If we stay with that formulation and give that formulation legal meaning, then we've made it possible for me to make a joke, Matan to play as the Prosjak says, and the sons are not detectives, detectives, so in that case our Home Secretary would have to be a detective and couldn't catch Matan, but this time we've located him. Therefore, this formulation is very dangerous and allows Matan to say that it is political persecution. Comrades and colleagues, we intend to use difficult words and plan for words specifically written that can put that argument into the hands of one who avoids the Croatian judiciary. Secondly, if this is a matter of intervention, a state intervention consisting solely in the adoption of a legal framework, then I am personally in favour of such intervention and private ownership, personally for that. That's why I voted in favour of the law itself, because this intervention through law-making allowed the stability of the economic system, made it possible for the workers of Agrokor to pay their salaries, saved small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, family economies. And when these 200 thousand people, just so they listen to us, I think they don't have any nerve to listen to us anymore, then those 200 thousand people really need to give an answer to what the government has done and in this case by applying this law to the Agrokora concert. Their answer must be positive and their answer, and that's why I'm happy to raise my hand against this proposal because that 200 thousand hands would be with my hand. Here's to it, I just wanted to make it clear about this, and I wouldn't do it anymore because we've been repeating ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58543	Thank you, too. Let's move on. National Minority Representatives club and respected counterpart Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58544	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. So when we were at the club and we talked a little bit, when I was getting ready for this debate we wrote a few pages of texts, facts and all. However, when we saw this debate today, then many parts of this debate were really a groundless accusation of who it was when, what, through history etc. I think we should finally stop dealing with history at least a little further. In the case of Agrokor in terms of irregularities, so should the institutions in charge. I'd like to remind you just a little bit to remember not so long ago on the third month, March. On March 30th, coming here to the Croatian Parliament when we all started whispering, we all started whispering. Remember the portal that day, remember the portal that day. 15 companies in the Agrokor system have launched executions, blockades. Speedy thinking about what's gonna happen, what do we do? On the day after that, the 31st request to initiate the bankruptcy procedure of the Konzum trade chain was submitted. The same day was the opening of the agricultural spring fair in Gudovac. Some of my colleagues were there with me. Our farmers from the Republic of Croatia who came to the fair came to us and asked what to do. We're counting on support, we're in charge of banks, we've got a market through some of the companies in the Agrokor system or in the Consum. What do we do? What if it goes into bankruptcy, what if we don't get paid? Only then would the Living Wall have had much more opportunities to prevent debacles, for unfortunately our farmers would not be able to pay for and pay for machines, could they not work on their own land. And what would happen? An avalanche would start. I can't believe today that we've heard so many stories here that the government doesn't do anything, that the law hasn't done anything. If it hadn't been for this law in that moment, what would have happened? To start the bankruptcy of 40,000 people on the road, more than 100,000 people probably in a blockade without receiving it would have happened. And that's why I'm glad, here was my colleague Panenic from MOST who first said the government didn't do anything, then he also commended Mr. Minister Tolusic and the government to start some kind of story or some of the things that people do. Today a few months later, we don't get fired at Agrokor's companies, we don't add up the executions, we don't add up the people who were kicked out of their homes because they couldn't pay the loans, we have a relatively stable company. The law isn't the best, it's for sure, but it's the best it could have been at that moment. Start a bankruptcy, blocking Agrokor's companies would be the worst at that moment that could have happened for the entire Republic of Croatia, for the tourist season, for all the citizens of Beautiful Ours. For this reason, the national minority club continues to support this government headed by Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, and if we continue to do so, it will remain that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58545	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. He's a colleague of Jankovicz's first, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58546	Dear Mr. President, the reason for this replica is not because I have a second view in relation to what has been said, but I consider it necessary for the Croatian public to report and warn of the fact that there was no law. That brother-in-law I came from, Baranja wouldn't look what she looks like today. We, as the president of our club, also stressed by passing this law, saved Belje, we left him alive after he was blocked, which is for Baranja where Belje employs about 2.5 thousand people absolutely the key thing. In addition, colleagues from the SDP have set examples here why not, apart from this, why this government doesn't deserve trust from what I see, from where I come from, this government has done huge things. We had a year with floods, fires, we had a year with elections, and yet we managed to improve the infrastructure of those environments where my people and members of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia live. I can say the places, so are the White Manastir, and Laslovo, and the Cotlin, and Lug, and the Dale,... Vukovar, Osijek and Bilje and Vardarac and Batina where we have managed to do things in a year in a difficult year and I believe that today or tomorrow if it is midnight when we declare our trust in this government, they will do even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58547	The answer to my colleague Bilek's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58548	Dear colleague Jankovics. In the very part of bringing out certain facts, you yourself said that 2.5 thousand workers of Belje in this way did not end up on the street, that they regularly receive salaries, to work, that part would be a big blow to Slavonia and Baranja. But what's even more important is that all co-operatives, suppliers, small suppliers are paid, all OPGs are paid, and what's important is they still have a contracted production and continue to work, so they have survival in their area, survival to live and work together with their families in the area of Slavonia and Baranja where at this point are our darkest figures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58549	Let's move on. Dear colleague Maras, you answered the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58550	Thank you very much. Mr. Bilek, while you're in '33. Remembered by Mr Ramljak who met with Knighthead representatives that day before he had anything to do with the extraordinary commissioner and the place and the government hadn't hired him at all, apparently he wasn't even working on the law. And why did he find himself? According to his statement because he was close to the situation around Agrokor, he said at a press conference. He immediately compromised himself, and after we learned that, all of us MPs should be compromised as the one who conducts the extraordinary administration procedure in Agrokor and continues for us. My question is very simple. What would be an inadmissible offense for you to say is not okay, I will no longer tolerate the government of Andrej Plenkovic, I think that Ante Ramljak must not do this, it is too much of a doubt that Knighthead has found himself here, why he bought bonds on the 3rd, 4th, 5th month, because of everything he realizes his financial enormous interests that are being realized hundreds of millions of euros and which is why I, as a parliamentary representative, am saying it from your position, I support it, which is why. What is it for you, Mr. Bilek, that would be inadmissible, where is that border? How much Knighthead should have interest here and how much Ramljak should allow it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58551	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58552	Dear colleague Maras. The difference between what I was saying and what you're saying was March 30th and March 31st to launch bankruptcy. A bankruptcy procedure if it had been launched would have asked the government for other reasons, doing 40,000 people right on the street, 150 thousand people in total who would have been left without receiving. Just to remind you, in the town of Daruvar where I come from, the Dalit who was the city's motor driver, who's been in certain bankruptcy proceedings of the daughter's company since 2009, in 2010, where the complete bankruptcy of Dalita went, the feather that worked for 2,000 people in the best of times, there's nothing going on, the hale's healed, we have a problem with handcuffs, it's pouring to the wolf where the bankruptcy went. Do you want Agrokor's companies so invested in that there's no work in them, there's no production in them? That would have been if there had been bankruptcy, that was then the limit for the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58553	Let's go to the last line, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58554	Dear Representative Bilek, I have not heard this much demagogy since Prime Minister Plenkovic. Namely, any profitable segment of Agrokora would continue to work, the only question is who would own Jamnica, that's the only question. No one would shut down Jamnica if it was clear that the company was making a huge profit, but would simply go under the authority of someone else. The same thing is, let's say, what happened in BiH, if I already mentioned Jamnica, so here's an example of Kiseljak, what happened? So Sberbank took it because the boss couldn't pay back his debts and does the Acid still work? Well, he's still working, only the owner's changed. So this demagogue story about Ivica Todoric being expelled from ownership so that suddenly 40,000 people are out of work is one black propaganda. But what happens after 15 months is the same thing that would happen in the beginning, which is that those segments of Agrokora that aren't profitable would be closed. They'll be locked up anyway. As for the little peasants, who destroyed the village? Do you see the statistics on agricultural production? The last time you took a walk in Slavonic village, you'd see that every other house was closed, that there was no living soul in it. And you're talking here that the government saved the village and the peasants. Oh, my God, so who let Todorovic not pay off the peasants for a year? Who? So HDZ let them do it along with the SDP. HDZ ruined them. Yeah, like the rest of Croatia. If Ivica Kicmanovic hadn't ruined them, you ladies and gentlemen would have ruined them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58555	As my colleague Brkic would say, you have a microphone, you hear yourself well, you don't have to yell. Here's your colleague, Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58556	Dear colleague Pernar, unlike you, I come from this Croatian village, from Slavonia and until the entry here into the Croatian Parliament I was engaged in agricultural production and sales of my own products. That's the difference. It's about when someone's talking and someone's living something. Last time I took a walk in the Croatian village yesterday night, the municipality of Končanica Believe it or not, the chief's there from HDZ and he's a lot of help both to schools and kindergartens and people as much as he can. [[Attack Pernar: Is HDZ Praised?]] What you're talking about here is that people would still be and that some companies would continue to work. However, who would be charged in the procedure you're talking about? Would these O.P.G.s, those little suppliers? No, I don't. The charge would go to some other banks that would take over property, which is how much I know exactly what you're up against, that's where we agree. And then someone else would do production, but certain suppliers would never be paid. How many families would that destroy? That's what I was talking about. The Croatian village currently has a very difficult life, a lot of people are leaving. But here's what I said in the presentation, I'm glad that MOST colleagues also noticed that although they first said that the government was doing nothing, they then commended Minister Tolusic where Mr Panenic said that he was congratulated that the new laws on the OPG were passed even though we disagreed with all their parts of the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on the OPGs, the Law on unfair trade practice. It is one part that can bring the Croatian village back to life in the future, which we really need to worry about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58557	Thank you, fellow Bilek. And we move on to the last Club of Representatives that's the CNS and the esteemed colleague Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58558	I would like to thank the president, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've been discussing this for sure all day. There's no more we haven't heard, and I'm sure it won't be any different to argue at this time until we decide to go through with it. I've already mentioned here countless times that the HNS was against this law yes, we went with six amendments, we wanted to fix it. I think one is accepted, the others aren't and we have what we have. Neither the first nor the last law that may not be perfect, but it certainly obtained certain results, or it prevented what was inevitable then, or what seemed inevitable. First of all, when the account was unblocked, he had six kunas on his account, there was an Agrokor. We hear a lot about suppliers, creditors. This law made it possible that those other bankruptcy and pre-determined had no, and that was the oldest debt institute that allowed the private company to finance private money with all the collaterals that were coming, because I once again said I wish someone had decided to give a billion euros and not ask for anything, no insurance whatsoever. As far as the commissioner is concerned, no contract is allowed or above the law. Therefore, there is only a question of protecting its investment from a certain part of the creditors. That contract wasn't made up obviously isn't our invention. Such don't contract, I mean especially contracts, but the law itself is something that has already been tried in Spain, France. You saw yesterday that the UK court also confirmed, so that's something that's already happened somewhere before. We don't need to invent hot water. Because what's certain is that citizens can't even pay swear for any company, absolutely no swear. We still have the institutions of an exclusive, distinct believer, the credentials in the bankruptcy mass that are being settled as well as in the bankruptcy law. All the same conditions, everything takes place before the court, and it's all decided by the believers. These same creditors supported such lending that allowed small suppliers to be paid off. These creditors must bring together a restructuring plan and a proposal for a settlement that must pass and ultimately be court-approved as well as all that we have had foregone and bankruptcy settlements. What is most respected here is that this law allowed the trading of privileged information. I have read this law several times, I do not see any other legal normative acts of this Republic of Croatia be derived anywhere, which would then be responsible for making something illegal possible. The one who's been working against it should be held accountable. Point. Both for this law and for all other laws of the Republic of Croatia. Because we made it possible for a private company to finance private money and protection of interests, if someone used it, it should be reported and sanctioned and prosecuted. What is certain is that the issue of Agrokor is far from resolved, that such debates are certainly as I said this morning, because investors and creditors and creditors are watching, and here are the courts in Great Britain. And I don't see a positive shift for the future of all employees, suppliers and agricultural production. We all talk to these employees, we all swear on these suppliers, so if they've already agreed to something, then I guess we should trust them. I say once again we weren't into that law, no. Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritaš had a comparison with sports earlier in the first exhibition, sailing, if I am not mistaken and said either from the beginning you choose a course or later you adjust. And it's all legitimate to reach the goal. The objective must be to preserve each job. And that's what this law has passed, the kind we have, it might have been perfect, but certainly, it's better than the alternative, and it's certainly bankruptcy and... Work place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's clearly how it turned out. But it's not over and it has to go all the way and we have to do everything we can to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58559	Also a colleague, Batinić, in the second part. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58560	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, questioning the government's work, is completely legitimate by the parliament, as parliamentary deputies elect the government. What is mentioned in the reasons why the government's issue is not giving convincing answers to the questions asked. If the government knows all the answers to that question, that's the question, that's what I'm asking. But obviously, neither of you who raised the question, the vote, or the government's trust, are sure, because here and in these discussions and reasons, we haven't heard anything concrete, to say compelling reasons. Whether it was necessary to bring Lex Agrokor, colleague Curaj said, we tried to fix the amendments. Are things going in the right direction? We'll know that through a certain period of time. Right now, there's a charge going on, a question is being resolved, a supplier's debt, and what's important is the question of how much is it going to cost the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Yes, we also asked that question in the debate when the law was passed. Based on both laws and statements, not only governments, but also people who understand, perhaps a little more relationships, should not cost the citizens of the Republic of Croatia anything. It was and he asked himself how it would affect the budget. Well, it's already affecting the budget, the budget's revenues. And how about, we've all kind of been going through our environments, or we've been familyly tied up, or we're like leaders through a variety of bankruptcys. What happens then? We could also experience bankruptcy in Agrokor. Whether or not the bankruptcy has been extended, whether or not it will happen, that's the question. I hope so, and I believe all of us here won't get into bankruptcy. Whether this problem could be solved in some other way. When we passed, when we discussed this law, apparently no one had any better ideas. What you would also like to say, and in these discussions, we have moved away from the topic. There is more or less talk about the past, however, what the HNS position is we are interested in the future. We are interested in the future of Agrokora, we are interested in the future of jobs, we are interested in the future of the company. Why, why are we going to support the government, that we will support the government of Andrej Plenkovic for a number of reasons. It is primarily because Croatia needs stability at this time, primarily political stability. Certain, start-up, reforms that unfortunately stood, and we are convinced that, in particular, certain indications and beginnings will be seen through the 2018 budget and projections for the next 2 years. I will not take up much time, however, and I also believe in the Rules of Procedure, it is expected that after 6 months, and perhaps before, because tactically it is very interestingly arranged, 31 MPs, when a little bit is summed up mathematically, we can expect a very quick launch of the issue of trust to the government as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58561	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking you to turn down what you're letting go of, okay? Okay. You can continue your colleague Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58562	I can, thank you very much. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58563	I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, you've also been appealed to some of your MPs to want order and correct work, then I'm asking you to do so. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58564	You'll allow a fellow president to question elementary decency, especially those who have raised this issue, because I see it coming from this circle. It doesn't concern me at all, but it only speaks of them and their seriousness and their intention to, in fact, apologize to the government for the question of trust that these examples show what their goal was, destabilization, etc., etc., etc. But to conclude, the CNS will support the government of Andrej Plenkovic. We are not going to support the proposal that was made by the opposition in the hope that those processes we discussed with coalition partners, from education, primarily, from solving ideological obstacles, from reforming all those systems that we are talking about, I believe that in the next 3 years not only will there be visible results, but certain processes will end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58565	We have three replicas first for a colleague named Curaj, then five for a colleague of Batinić's. Please, let's go. The first is the Honorable Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58566	Thank you very much. Mr. Curaj, your party is known for its consistency and consistency in this House. You were against this law. Now you're defending him most bitterly. You were against the Agrokor Investigation Commission, so when HDZ changed the story, you changed the story. You called this government and Prime Minister Plenkovic the Titanic Government. That's why it was nice to listen to Mr Batinić's speech with the background of Celine Dion and the teaching song from Titanic. It's Mr. Batinić, to see how consistent you are, you're sitting in the Titanic government. I'm replicating Mr. Curai who spoke on behalf of the HNS Club. So you're like what I said to a scene in Titanic. The ship's sinking, and you're holding on like Leonardo di Caprio to the fence of the sinking Titanic and you'll stick to it until the sea sucks. Because you from Titanic are not going. It's nice while it lasts – the most luxurious ship, the most beautiful ship, and that's for you in the HNS, unfortunately the government. And you will hold until the end, until the last hundredth of this term, the majority of what Andrej Plenkovic did, regardless of the symbols you fought, regardless of the Titanic, regardless of what you hold most of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58567	Thank you. My colleagues are sitting there, and you're sitting in your president's chair, so you won't be long. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58568	Thank you, Mr. President. If I may just have a quick answer. Let's take it in a row. Titanic is ruling yes, the HDZ government and the Most. Is that clear? It is. Yeah, that's right, the syntagma was like that, right. So there's nothing controversial about it. As far as consistency is concerned, I know that we broke your accounts, I know that you wanted new choices not because you would have come to power, because if you had, that there were alternatives to someone else from what we did wouldn't have done. But no, the only alternative was the new election, the destabilising of the country, the uncertainty, and that would be the most useful thing for you because they would mix these people that you're sitting here and that would be your only interest. That, not Croatia, not the state and tomorrow you have the same interest and that's why you're doing this today. Because nobody can tell me that with such work and perspective, there's still any chance of anything else, but of changing people he doesn't like, sitting next to you. I never said that I was against, not one word against the Committee, but I said that this commission I fear that the only purpose it has is to promote a certain person politically and to make a noise. You know where to explore, you know where the addresses are. I don't mind if anyone comes and explores everything. But here it's very clear what's going on. Is the future easy to shout now, but the future of workers, the future of suppliers, everything? It's not just about playing games to change 15, 20 people in their own seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58569	Let's move on. Dear colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58570	Comrade Curai said you had to choose the right course of the ship to get to the finish line. But tell me, you're on board a Titanic that we know how he got to the finish line. How do you feel on that ship that's never gonna get to the finish line?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58571	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. So, I feel very good, I don't have any problem absolutely. So everything we've determined to do and we won't give up a millimeter and we'll do it. Well, among other things, your ex-resor. Something's moved in the last few months. What it cost two years. Whose fault I don't care anymore, but what's done goes in the right direction. We will stand by these beliefs and continue. Of course, a colleague Maras once mentioned this in an interview that you can always respect the partner you're dealing with. Of course we will choose our battles and what is crucial to us. Well, we weren't happy when we were partners, but we were a loyal and collegiate partner who solved his problems behind closed doors. That's what we'll be now. So as if we were satisfied with everything in that government? And here's colleague Maras here is an excellent representative, but as minister he probably could've done better. The citizens said that, and all of us together could always have been better and needed better. But if we do what we say, and you know what we're saying, and you know what the goal is, so one of these is also the stabilisation of the Agrokor itself and we give these people a chance, then we're what we say we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58572	Let's move on, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58573	Dear counterpart Curaj, the parliamentary representative you in Parliament have been changing Mr. Vrdoljak for six months has assured the Croatian public that HNS will not go into coalition with HDZ and eventually left. And so now you six months convince us that bankruptcy has been avoided, and we know that in 15 months, bankruptcy is coming. As we know the birds will return next year, so we know that there will be bankruptcy when the 15 months pass. And as for small suppliers, this is a very important detail. Yeah, I told Mr. Bilek it was, it's one good thing the law made to pay off the OPGs and the small suppliers. I congratulate Mr. Ramljak. And then I asked him, and then why don't you put it into the bankruptcy law to first settle small suppliers and O.P.G.s, not private banks. He laughed and said that because the law was written for the banks. So, gentlemen and ladies, you could have changed the bankruptcy bill, you should have done that, changed the bankruptcy law so that every time you do, you don't cost small suppliers of the O.P.G.s. But this is not how you decided to do an acrobatic where you're supposed to be rescuers, and it's clear who from the plane that you are by your bankruptcy policy where the central bank is a currency exchanger, where the rate of unreal is made by an import product cheaper than domestic and clocked not only village and peasants but also the rest of the real economy, and later trades when the credit balloon broke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58574	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58575	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Pernar. Let's just first when... mentioning a colleague of the Vrdoljaks, that I suppose a man had this in mind that it would come to this election where you choose perhaps between what you were saying and the stability of the country so that you wouldn't probably say that for six months that he had it in mind. I suppose no one is as many suicides from an ambush as you might say, so there was a decision or a new election destabilising that wouldn't change anything but only some people would change or give this opportunity to the country, especially workers who work. As far as bankruptcy and danger are concerned, I keep saying countless times in all public exhibitions, so the Agrokor problem isn't over, we're dealing with the past, research, what is who said who was who, but the Agrokora problem is far from a solution. Yeah, it can happen, but I don't know how much this helps, how good we do it, when these creditors look at investors, when they look at creditors how much of this kind of debate, how good things are, how much it helps, how much I'm not sure, and it's supposed to be the leader's idea, and that's the only goal that has to be, no politics, no political point gathering, and I don't know the scavengers maybe on some of the dubious HNS voters who say... there's no and everybody's so fighting for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58576	Now we move on to the replicas for a colleague of Batinić's. First in line is colleague Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58577	Your Honor. First of all, my colleagues, Curaju, I wanted to replicate. And so can Batinić, though, is he related to the same thing, and that means consistency. [[Then feel free to colleagues Curaju, I'm sorry.]] Poor country if you're a factor of stability, that means the same you who were against this law, and then all of a sudden, you're for him. Against six months ago, now for some decision. But I'm gonna talk about a much more important thing, and that's what you've said here is one thing that's been spinning all day, and that's a lie. You said there would be no cancellation, that's what you said earlier, that there would be no dismissal, that there would be no layoffs of workers that Lex Agrokor was a good law because of what no one would be fired. If you want to deny it freely in response to the replica, you can do it. And when the already respected colleague who spoke not of course and purpose but spoke of tactics as the most important element of how to reach the goal, I think it's a much more important thing. This tactics, which is that we're lying about telling the truth isn't good, that's what I was going to say to my colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58578	Do you remember those verses "Who plays for heaven and neglects tactics will end his career in the lower-class Vratnik"? [[Stojnica Ostojić: Congratulations, President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58579	Thank you, Comrade Stayer, well I said the goal is to keep every job. You can say it won't be, it wasn't my words, but that's what we have to believe. Whether to hire two thousand, fire a thousand five hundred people I don't know, but the goal must be both the law and our action to preserve every job, connected suppliers, etc. I didn't mention cancellations, but you can put those words well so that the public gets a little earful if that's the goal of the office... the goal has to explain. As for the law to object, but we have what we have, so it's not the only law, we have a series of laws that may not be the best but we're working on them. What we have to do with it must be done best, not to get away, but to help in the direction that must be the future. ... how many times I say so I'm going to tell the employees and suppliers and creditors and agricultural production. So you know how many OPGs I have in Osijek-Baranja County and Slavonia only have to do with one combination of Belje? So it's a disaster for Slavonia to be with those two, three combinations that would leave, so we can't give in to any pressures, and that must be the main thought of leadership whatever you're doing. And I hope so, and I believe it will be, but we all have to do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58580	Now it's up to your esteemed colleague, Habek. Here you go. You're going to work with your colleagues, aren't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58581	Yes, to my fellow citizen Batinić yes. Comrade Batinić, it seems to me that you have the same bridge as Alzheimer's. I didn't say that to offend you, but they loved HDZ first, now they hate each other. You hated HDZ now you love them. Just like my colleague Ostojić said you were against the law now you are for the law. The bridge was for the law now is against the law. It is no wonder that citizens are disgusted by this policy as it is being led and that they have absolutely no more faith in us. Since I cannot ask Mr Plenkovic the question, I will ask him to you, given that you are in the same government. What happens if, by any chance, you're not happy with Mr. Ramljak's work and you want to relieve him or he leaves? How much is that going to cost, and who's going to pay for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58582	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58583	Thank you. If you had read the law, if you had been informed then you would have known the answer to this last question, you should not have asked it to me or to the Prime Minister. You're comparing us to the Bridge, well, I can imagine, the Independent Lists Bridge, the political party, the HNS political party, these are the only points of contact. But there are huge differences. What happens if we fight? Well, there's a big difference, colleague Habek, we were together in the coalition, we know each other personally, even if this isn't a personal level, so we don't get it wrong. But we're not the only party, that it has to be just like I say or no other way. We've come across a fair cooperation, I'm sure it will last. Remember, you too, your colleagues, your colleagues, your co-operation, and how easy and easy cooperation was with you. So no coalition is ideal. We need to talk, we need to negotiate and we need to find common solutions. Furthermore, we were in favor of the law, so now we're against the law or sorry, vice versa. Yeah, we were against the law, because we wanted to improve it, when we were discussing it, and also about Agrokor, we said that the government was too late to react to us, that it was supposed to be in January when they started talking about Agrokor and when the credit rating was downgraded. That was our criticism. Why do we now support the government? Well, it's simply for the reasons I've stated. Croatia does not need ideological divisions, politics, citizens, at least it needs stability.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58584	Let's move on. Dear colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58585	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My question is addressed to Mr Batinić, but Mr Curaj can answer, because they said the same thing in their presentation, which is, I would really like to demystify this story, if all the suppliers of Agrokora were satisfied and supported. We can see that small suppliers and OPGs have been paid, completely even, of course, that they provide support. We also see that large suppliers organized themselves, that their word is taken seriously and that they are a relevant factor in the conversation, therefore, without them there is no settlement. And they can be satisfied. But there is one medium layer of suppliers, so neither large nor small, which are quite numerous, which are under the pressure of the scavenger fund, to sell their claims to Agrokor that fund significantly cheaper than it is worth. And the fund is then through the system roll up to raise those claims to a priority level. Our Croatian companies will lose fat, and on the other side they will earn fat. You can tell me, it's about old claims, it's not possible to raise them through roll-up because it only refers to new claims after entering the lex Agrokor scene. But based on the agreement they sign with the temporary manager, they are able and old claims to be transferred to priority claims. Do you think such suppliers in that medium layer, let's call them medium-sized suppliers satisfied that the crisis managers in Agrokor, satisfied with the work of the manager and satisfied with Lex Agrokor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58586	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58587	Thank you. When we look at it, if we analyze it and if there is some comparison with bankruptcy and this law, my answer to it will be who is more or less satisfied, it would be ideal for everyone to get what they have invested or how much their claim is. Agrocoram is run by Mr. Ramljak and the Committee of Prophets. So I don't know why you're asking that question to me? Furthermore, as far as your further question is concerned, I'm not professional enough and I haven't done an analysis, as far as it is, you've listed them as medium, religious. However, my answer to you is in a way that compares how many creditors will receive this law, and how much would you get if automation had declared bankruptcy? On the condition that, and there was a theory that healthy companies could work, simply, all these "healthy companies" guarantee the credits of Agrokora as a whole, means all debt is transferred to them. Well, in that part, I'm not sure what their destiny would be. The bankruptcy, would be generated, this bankruptcy would refer to all the companies related to Agrokor and thus their payment in that part. If I understand correctly, because bad, I don't know, you're silent, so I didn't hear it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58588	Let's move on. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, also a colleague of Batinic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58589	Thank you very much, President. In 23.4.2017, your President Ivan Vrdoljak made a film, published it on his Facebook and explained there why he believes that Prime Minister Plenkovic has shown indecision in the case of Agrokor and why this is the Titan Government. Afterwards, however, the scene was staged by the Grand Maester, Seks Vlado, a shadow ruler, who says he has activated several checkpoints, apparently judicial and simple, Mr. Vrdoljak entered the sinking government Titanic. You're a longtime member of the corruption council, so I'm wondering, do you think it's political corruption? And how can you even look into the face and eyes of the voters you betrayed by entering this titan government?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58590	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58591	A colleague, Jovanovic, whether he has political corruption or not, so I believe that you are also the president of the National Council, so I believe that here, you can do it and start that initiative exactly as you ask me. I have no idea that anyone, and especially my colleague Shakespeare, former colleague Shakespeare, Mr. Shakespeare, has spoken to anyone from the HNS, has not spoken to me. Once we met, we were passing through Sheraton and that was all. Back I think the last two, two and a half years. A nonstop mantrate story HNS has betrayed voters. I'd just like to remind you in 2015 we went to the elections together, the HNS won over 100,000 preferential votes. When we went out in 2016 to insist on your president in the 3rd constituency, we had to correct the person who went to the preferential vote, No. 14 to insist. Why? So why are you afraid of preferential votes? 130 thousand preferential votes in the 2016 elections. Where do you get the right, to you and to all those who raise that question to challenge the issue of voter treason? Well, you've, with your inaction since 2015 as the main opposition party, betrayed voters if we're going to talk about it, hard words. An apology to those who don't feel that way and who aren't to blame. Your leadership is wrong about that. If I didn't tell the story of before, 130,000 preferential votes, you have no right to take it,... You have no right to take any or ask any of that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58592	Comrade Jovanovic, please. Let's move on, dear colleague Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58593	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Batinic, I am not going to ask you about Agrokor because I do not think your party will have much influence on the decision of Agrokor's fate, but I am interested in something else, since you say that the HNS will support this government and I am curious whether it is your position as a whole of the HNS, a partial HNS or a third. Because I'm curious, you have a single mayor in Međimurje County who makes statements that he needs the party more than he needs the party. And it's not as far as I understand from the statements he makes in the local media about the HDZ coalition. Now either your mayor makes contradictory statements or deceives still his voters in Međimurje and where he is ultimately supported by SDP and not HDZ. So I'm wondering if you've agreed on this position or tomorrow the mayor will go out in the media that no one asked him anything, and we should ask him because he's the only mayor. And second, if tonight, i.e. Tomorrow morning, as we go on schedule early morning, this government gets trust, given that the vice-president of the HNS government, here you are, I don't know if you've seen this, a little easier topic, this last HTZ video that was promoted in London, which I think is embarrassing because only parts of our beautiful were promoted, but for the first president, Croatia was up to Drava and not Mura. So I hope that's not the way it's gonna be in this government. Not one part of the north has been promoted in this video, which is really embarrassing since Međimurje County and Varazdinska is one of the most advanced counties along Istria in Croatia, but here is not one chamber two seconds could be found to be accompanied. So I'm curious that since you'll still be in the government whether you'll promote the north and fight for the north. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58594	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58595	Thank you. My colleague Kovač, I understand, you and your colleague Posavec have been rivals in Međimurje County, one in the city, the other in the county and that rivalry is even sweet to me, it has been going on for many years but you must ask a fellow Posavec on these issues. As for the video of the tourist community, that by any chance yesterday morning you were here, our colleague Maria Puh was just looking for a break on behalf of the HNS club and pointed out these shortcomings, according to us shortcomings regarding the HTZ video. And we just mentioned the north of Croatia, that's one thing. Secondly, to be honest, I didn't understand what you wanted to ask me, you said more, as far as Posavec is concerned, a fellow Posavec is a member of the HNS and will remain. And that's what's gonna stay. And I'm saying, you guys as rivals, I like that because I have some knowledge, too, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry if you're confrontationing on that little space, but I believe you're finally reaching certain arrangements as visible. You don't need to find that weird. It could also be strange to me, specifically in the Varazdin County coalition, both Reformists and SDP and HDZ. It's a local level, regional level, people can make a deal. After all, so, you don't need it, I mean, it's not something that's exclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58596	I don't know what kind of injury you're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58597	Well, my colleague Batinic, 238, was speaking falsely. Well, we're not in any government in Varazdin County, we're opposition. Therefore, do not speak falsely in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58598	My colleague, please, Habek, not now, it's hours late, we've been through a lot today, so don't go now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58599	I am surprised that the head of the SDP county organisation in Varazdin County does not know that they are in coalition with HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58600	Okay, I don't know, please come on, this is lame. All right, we're moving on. These are locals now, these are local topics. Let's move on, first individual, moving on to individual debates, first in line is honorary colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58601	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Let's get back to the topic that we've been here for a long time, I hope this departure doesn't mean that you don't expect a quality debate from me, but probably, here, colleague Bačić, everything follows closely and he will pass it on. ... So, Friday evening, the Croatian Parliament has not seen such a large number of MPs on Fridays, especially at half 11, which means that the topic is important and that because of Croatian citizens, we are having a debate here, which is why the SDP and the SDP club and the other MPs have filed a motion for the government's impeachment, which, in our deep conviction, has lost Mr Reiner's right, can you introduce a little order? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58602	Come on, let's let it go, please. Honorable representative Marasu to say what he wants, please. ... [[/Intruder Maras: Want to take a break?]] I'm afraid unfortunately, they're the loudest from your club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, come on, keep your voice down so that colleague Maras can tell. [[Intruder Maras: No, they're not, it just seems so.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58603	Thank you very much. So the citizens who are watching us now must hear why we believe that as representatives, the HDZ government must leave. Because she used one difficult situation to create an inappropriate business model. No one argues that Agrokor was in a difficult situation, that jobs had to be preserved, that the company had to keep working. But no one then gives the right to, the HDZ and the interest circles around HDZ, to create a business model, under which some will earn 100m euros in a very short time on the difficult situation of Agrokor. Key evidence that this model is part of, is essentially the RS government's response. I'm surprised that no one noticed it from the MPs, especially from the ruling coalition, that the government, that is, Ramljak, or Agrokor, has admitted that they have taken over the model that Knighthead offered to the former government of Agrokor and who stands here for an answer. First question, Minister Dalic, why is there no Ante Ramljak here, if he wrote half the answer to the Croatian government that you sent to the Croatian Parliament? Where did Anti Ramljak get the right to take over the model Knighthead offered on his first date, the first day, when Ramljak was appointed and you were with him in the Cibon Tower? Where Knighthead offered a roll-up model with 400 million euros. What did the government accept and yet he said he was offering it to the former government of Agrokora, when? Tell us, Minister Dalic, when did he offer this to the former administration of Agrokor? Could have been 30.3 already. 2017? Did he offer this model to Anti Ramljak at the meeting on 30.3.2017? Is that why Mr. Bacic offered here an amendment that allows such a model, to Knighthead to achieve his business plan? That's what it says in your answer. You enabled Knighthead to implement his business plan, to earn 100m euros, and to manage the most valuable companies in the Republic of Croatia. That's what our citizens need to know. HDZ, the HDZ government, the HDZ Representatives Club, provided Knighthead with their business model, which they proposed before 10.4. Look, read Mr. Bačić, it says right here. Page 7. And tell the Croatian public why you allowed it? Therefore, the HDZ government no longer deserves the trust of the Croatian Parliament. Where's Ramljak? Why didn't Ramljak come? Why was Ramljak chosen? I once again ask Minister Dalic, what kind of restructuring business did Ante Ramljak work in the Republic of Croatia, that he was qualified to do the job? Answer us, why did you choose him? Is it because he sat down with Knighthead 30.3? Maybe that's why they chose him. Maybe they needed a man to conduct their business model in Agrokor. If this is the biggest restructuring business in Europe, what's someone who doesn't have experience in this business doing? I'm also a very good driver of a personal car, but I'd never sit down for Formula 1. Because I'm not qualified for that. Tell us, Minister Dalic, once again I ask you this, why was Ante Ramljak qualified for this job? Jobs, we haven't heard from the diameter of Plenkovic here to protect jobs. They've taken care of it now, but what happens in a year? They don't care about that. Property, they don't care about that either. Americans can sell Agrokor to whoever they want. The religious council, please nice, small suppliers, great suppliers, Marica Vidaković Kras, so you should ask her why she allowed her company to come into a dependent position towards Agrokor and that she owes us, we have now seen Agrokor over 50 million kuna Kras, that's what her shareholders should ask her, not that she still gives us lessons here and says excellently Plenkovic did the job. So what will they say? She wants to get her money. Little suppliers, same thing, the gentleman who's there I don't even know how they got to him to represent small suppliers. There were thousands of them, so they did not choose among themselves, Ante Ramljak suggested who would represent them, Ante Ramljak chose a religious council and a small cattleman from Bjelovar and Mrs Vidakovic. Knighthead says this is Minister Dalic having bonds, so how did they legislate? They said they had over 40% of the bonds at the first meeting of the 10.4. So that's what they're telling us, and that's what they won't say by ruling. Zagrebačka banka, the only Sberbanka is not at the will of Anti Ramljak and the only vote against such decisions that Ante Ramljak and the religious council make. And now someone will say the religious council manages what approved the roll-up loan contract, so themselves, the Zagreb Bank, Knighthead two votes, Marica Vidaković three. Here we are no longer needed to grant funding to ourselves who give money to the Zagreb Bank and Knighthead. Well, you can't convince anyone of this. I don't know if you're even thinking about how someone served you this. So Mrs. Dalic entered HDZ yesterday, she entered HDZ yesterday, and you who received election elections in the HDZ field for their laws that allow someone to earn hundreds of millions of euros. Well, do you know what makes it possible for these people, so you're not just here to raise your hands? We should get some ladies and gentlemen from HDZ to imagine ourselves. These answers we didn't get today, and obviously we won't get them because Mrs. Dalic and Prime Minister Plenkovic obviously aren't interested, they're pushing their way, they've provided a business model for funds that will make them hundreds of millions of euros, they move on. But we're moving on. We'll look for answers, we'll get those answers eventually. People will not come here to Croatia to take hundreds of millions of euros, take management of our companies, and we will look at it peacefully. You can have 77, eight hands today, but we'll get those questions out eventually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58604	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58605	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Two weeks ago, a Croatian daily published an article on a signed agreement on a roll-up loan from which it became visible and clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia lost a good part of its right to manage Agrokora. lex Agrocor. The attempt by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to call on that something by law can and if it is clear to everyone that it can, but to pay the price if it were to do what it can or to be even more precise that it would be in danger of paying an expensive price if it decided to replace Mr Ramljak, the knowledge we learned almost four months or five months after that contract was signed, forced us to ask for certain answers from the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58606	My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask you a moment... that the esteemed representative of the Bauk may speak for himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58607	We have been looking for answers all day, we have been looking for breaks all day, and after every debate, we have talked for five minutes as far as the Rules of Procedure allows us to deal with the problem of Agrokor and we have announced that since we are not allowed to have a normal debate to answer questions, that as the only business option guaranteeing the government's arrival in the Assembly and giving an answer, we will use the minimum number of signatures to request the government's recall or to raise a question of trust to the government, we will challenge this debate and get some answers. In her testimony, the government of the Republic of Croatia seems to me to be on page 17, answering 11 of our questions. Some of these matches are more elaborated, some of these answers are less elaborated. Yet two answers to two questions have not been elaborated. I'll only single out two. One is number six, did anyone have privileged information and did they share that information before passing the Lex Agrokor. Of course, the Government generally replied that it does not show what type of information the question refers to, etc., etc. but it was clear from the publicly published data that a person who had no function at that time except an ordinary citizen met with people who had certain interests to sort out the situation in Agrokor. Did he know then that he was going to be so-called. An extraordinary commissioner can assume again, but we assume he is. Did he then give some information that, in a correct, normal situation, we shouldn't give it up, we can assume it, but I'm being moved to sue for the spoken word politicians won't dare say what I suppose. I don't need that, that extra problem. The second thing, to the question under which the provision of a contract which makes it substantially difficult for the Government to reduce the extraordinary commissioner to be exposed to Agrokor and the Government most responsible for the processes in it by the possible costs of a billion kuna, the answer is, I will quote, this claim is once again not supported by any evidence or fact nor proven by a relevant source. The answer to the question under which circumstances the provision of the contract was introduced is that it was not supported by any evidence or fact. Well, the contract is evidence and a fact and a provision saying that if a person with a name and last name who was accidentally recorded by the Deputy Prime Minister in one of the unpublished appearances, Antom signed a contract with one of them, so with a fund that says if he no longer serves as an extraordinary commissioner that the loan must be returned immediately. That's two answers that the government hasn't given us any answers. Some answers in very detailed terms, some are supported by certain data, there is plenty of time to analyze because he also said the Prime Minister that these documents must be such that they can be analysed and then called upon and we will certainly do so. But in this case, we have not received answers to two questions and neither have we received the Croatian public. Of course, it is also well assumed by counterpart Batinic that this business provision has been used in such a way that, at some other time, 31 other MPs who have not now signed this request may request the government's denunciation six months ago. Yeah, that's right, that's why we did it like this. Also, it is true that any 31 MPs can demand the prime minister's recall which again has the same result as the government's impeachment. And you can do that every 45 days. Of course, if we're not gonna do that, we probably won't because it could be counterproductive. We will, we will evaluate it according to our tactical political interests when we judge it should. Now we've estimated that we should, this debate is still going on, it's been exhausting, detailed, some answers we've got, we're less satisfied with them than we are satisfied with, but we have a legitimate right to do it. There's another question that's being asked around, so why are you looking for it when you know you're not gonna make it anyway? It's usually a shot to the left and right feet of parliamentary democracy. Parliament serves as a means for representatives of citizens elected to speak and for citizens to hear what they have to say. And then they will, in relation to what they hear from us, hear from colleagues from other opposition parties, assess you from the ruling ones who are right and whom they will trust in the next election. Every time we think we have something to say, we'll say it regardless of what we might be at that moment aware that most of the votes we won't get for it. But we can't say the citizens didn't trust us. That's what we could say to this so-called. reconfiguration. After 7 MPs who have gone to the polls seem ruling on the common lists, the elections with the People's Coalition make up the ruling majority, you can no longer call for citizens to trust you in the elections. No, they're not. They trusted HDZ and the Most, they did not trust HDZ and HNS because they were neither able to vote. Therefore, citizens are no longer to be called. You have 78, most of the 78 MPs, it's thin but it works while it works. Of course we'll test it every time we can because we think the government is bad and that the state is going in the wrong direction. That's not just what we think, according to some poll 60, according to some 70, according to the latest 78% of those who answer that question. And polls can be wrong, but not so much. Therefore, what we are saying here we think in our opinion and most, or a large number of Croatian citizens. We will continue to represent them and, of course, we will do what is expected of us to be the opposition that raises questions, which provides solutions, and we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58608	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58609	Thank you very much. In your debate, you said one key thing, and this only shows how many HDZ colleagues and the Governments do not answer our repeated questions at all. So after you ask Minister Dalic here how this Ramljak is qualified for the job, which is why he got the highest possible salary he could get, which is 70 thousand kunas net, after you ask how this model that Knighthead offered and the former government of Agrokora Government accepted, so it de facto legalized their model through the Croatian Parliament and thus used the institutions of our country to make hundreds of millions of euros here is a secret. There's no answer from the HDZ, no answer from what he's saying, no answer from what he's asking. It's just that people can't wait for the debate to end. So it's not important to give them answers to Croatian citizens, it's important that the matter ends as soon as possible and goes home. Unlike them, it is important for us to give answers to Croatian citizens, to see who is doing the right thing here and who is doing the wrong thing here. And on that side, I'm convinced that's what people see, that there's no coincidence, Mr. Shucker, there's no coincidence. They didn't happen to come here, nor did they accidentally offer this business model, nor prepared 400m euros as seen from the document the government delivered to us and which also allows them to make hundreds of millions of dollars on the situation that took place in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58610	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58611	I'm sorry, I'm going to rephrase well, but she's looking for a break after that. The thing is, my colleague Arsen Bauk is a big head, a very big head, a very smart man, and he's very prone to criticism. Of course, I see as well as the rest of the party doesn't have that line of self-criticity, so I'd just like to ask him one simple, simple question. Why aren't you the big head of Arsena Bauku when you were in power to put the OPGs and small suppliers above private banks in the event of bankruptcy. So why didn't you put the O.P.G.s above these macro creditors when you were in power? That's what I want to know. And as for the reason for the break, I am looking for a break because it is finally beginning to publish an arbitration ruling in the case of the INA MOL we lost, and one of the reasons we lost is because the judges believed that Jezic's testimony was false, or that USKOK suggested what to say, and the key argument is that he never had to return 5 million euros of bribes allegedly to the state budget that I spoke about several times, so I want to point out that problem again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58612	Please. But you'll also allow your colleagues, Bauk, to respond to your replica. [[Pernar: Yes, you can.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58613	Now there's a lot bigger heads than me, but unfortunately they're empty, but there's a lot less heads than I do and they know more than I do. That's right, the size of someone's head isn't much of a criterion. To your particular question, in which you alluded to the fact that we've subordinated the banks to someone if I've got it right. There are two places where I am now sitting a colleague of Lalovec who is one of the main authors of the Law on Conversion, so-called lex franc. One member of your club is and you put him on the list and he was elected to the Parliament as president of that association, so then he can testify to you that I don't have to avoid this dose of self-criticism that you said about how much this government that I was in favor of the banks and how excited they are with her at least to this extent. As far as the specific question is concerned, since when we were in power, when we were in government, I'm going to ask those who know more about it, because even though you told me that I'm a big head, I'm not so big as to know everything. You'll get a written answer once in a while, but you'll get an answer, so you can share it with all the Croatian public when you've asked for a break. Now I assume the president will approve it for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58614	Here you go, pal Pernar. Now we're going back to our original subject. And the next individual will speak to the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58616	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. This story of lex Agrokor reminds me of an ancient Indian story in which the king sentenced criminals to death. And the criminal says don't judge me, please, I'll teach your horse how to speak. The king says yes, here I give you a year to learn my horse to speak, but if you don't teach him my horse to speak, I will torture you before I die. And they take the guards to the barn and they say you screwed up, you could die fast, and now you're gonna die slow and in pain for a year. And the criminal says, and look, guys, in a year, maybe I die, and maybe the king dies, and maybe the horse talks. Now, you see, this government, by bringing in lex Agrokora, thinks something's going to happen in 15 months, that maybe the government will fall, maybe some other government will come, maybe some miracle will happen, so Mr. Todorovic will talk. However, we will not experience anything from all of this. Because this Lex Agrokor, which we have now brought in April this year, that is, brought by the ruling majority, actually represents just as much as in this story a short-term measure, a populist measure in order for the government to preserve its rating in order to survive at all. Because she de facto fell in April, so the government fell. And with Lex Agrokora and some kind of buying a mandate as embarrassing as she bought time, she bought time for nothing. And as I have already mentioned in the replicas, this government has sent citizens a very, very bad message, which is that tycoons and thieves and in this country are subject to special laws, that they are privileged together with their political mentors. Because if 330,000 citizens could end up in a blockade and 30,000 OPG crafts and hundreds of factories, then Mr. Todorovic should have ended up in a blockade that day, both for him and for him. And he was also supposed to end up in prison because he stole 700 million kunas from Agrokor and left his debts to his suppliers. And now you're trying to save something rotten that just can't be saved. You bring Commissioner Ramljak the same way you brought Commissioner Plenkovic to your party. And can he change HDZ now, do you think he can change it? He can't change it because he can't fix it anymore. It can only be dismantled and left to its fate but cannot be changed, HDZ will always be one and the same. Privatization, tycoon and Todorovski. And his company Agrokor will always be bad and will never recover again and represent some force in the region and also in Croatia. And it's funny to me, you know, you've sold out all the companies saying that the state is a bad master and now you're intervening in the same company as the state interventionist, so let's make up your mind that the gentlemen of HDZ are eating a bad master or the state is a good master. This government generally does not because of lex Agrokor but because of its entire policy does not deserve support. She should have had the honour of resigning by herself, not waiting for others to force her to do so. It is a government that is quarreled with the entire Croatian public with 77% of citizens, with all relevant parties, with its own president, with all neighbouring countries, it is the policy of this government. Disputed with Russia, he's trying to pin himself on the U.S. by unnecessarily buying military planes, selling weapons to Saudi Arabia aggressors in Yemen and Syria, and probably soon enough in Lebanon. Is this what it took for us who have suffered aggression to sell weapons to the aggressors and bring here the Assembly of Military Delegations and give them a round of applause? And then they say look, we're growing. And here, two days ago, I showed that Croatia by dozens of indicators is only a European bottom, means bottom both by standard and by pension and by salary and by youth unemployment and by investment and by investing in education, science, speed of the Internet, gender equality whatever you want, we are the last. And then you say look, we're growing 2.9%. Yes, the slowest of all our neighbours, Slovenians are growing 4.7, Romania 5.7, Hungary 3.7, Poland 4.2, the Czech Republic 4.3 means we are even more buried at the bottom because they are growing faster than we are, so even more that difference is becoming evident. And that is the government I cannot believe that individual representatives of the ruling coalition say is of national interest to preserve such a government. A government firmly anchored at the bottom of the EU, at the bottom. So where is your face, please, that you're talking about some sort of success? It's like I don't know the last club in some football league saying we're champions. Well, anyone with any sense can see that it just doesn't make sense. This government, therefore, is without character, a government without criteria, a government without honor, a government that is its own purpose, a government that is said to be picturesquely on apparatus whose greatest success in the corny coalition is so that it cannot presently endanger them. It's the success of this government, the HNS break-up or some other parties, and then there they can enjoy their Januarys for another time. But you won't be long. All public opinion research shows that the public has turned their backs on you, your prime minister is the most hated person in the Republic of Croatia. That's not what I said it was an official poll, you don't support it yourself, I know it very well just know you accepted it because of that situation with Tomislav Karamark by force, but he doesn't reflect your views. That's why your MPs left the coalition and swept you into Zagreb, so now you're trying to put an end to them with a lex code. That's why your Deputy Prime Minister resigned, which is why the president no longer supports you because he says we're in a state of emergency. Do you know what those words are? It's a state of emergency. And you here are still hoping that some miracle will happen, some big turn and Agrokor will become Goldman Sachs, for example, or some successful company that will hire tens of thousands of people who will earn a thousand euros. So I would like to conclude that this government has not implemented absolutely any reforms, that this government is paralyzed by fear, fear of solving problems in the Republic of Croatia and fear of losing the parliamentary majority and that this government will continue to do so. And that's why it's good for this government to leave as soon as possible. It's democratic and it's okay as it was that that scarecrow of Tim Oreshkovic's government goes away after only six months and God forbid we've had them here for two more years now. But I also want to tell the Croatian citizens because I know that many now listen, it is not the solution for HDZ to leave without the SDP coming. And they are very responsible for all this that happened with Agrokora and Ivica Todorovic. And they will continue the same policy and will not end Lex Agrokor and will not punish those responsible because they cannot punish themselves, no politician will do so. A solution to turn citizens to third options and finally make order, and this can be done very quickly, only it is necessary for the people to finally unite on the right issues. That's why I'm here to say that I will personally and the Living Wall club vote for Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58617	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Honored Representative Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58618	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My friend Bunjac, you were talking about eating a good country or a bad master, so after all, it all comes down to what kind of politics you're running, that's the first thing. And secondly perhaps even more importantly, what kind of ability you put into some kind of company. If you put incapacitated and corrupt footage into any company of state or private, that company will fail. So here's a private example, the world's most famous Enron from America, a private company, and the best example of the state in Croatia is certainly INA. INA in the former state was probably the strongest and most famous, had the highest reputation of all companies. Of all the companies back then, everyone wanted to work there. She had property around the world oil fields, research department, resort in Croatia, refineries, so the best positions for gas stations at that time were almost and only. But what happens then? There's corruption going on. The MOL takes full control based on therefore corrupting INA operations, and that's where the end begins. One piece at a time. The first is the research and development of new oil fields, new sites. Thousands of the most professional people are fired. So, one human genocide, Bartholomew night in INA. After that, there is a plan to shut down the refineries, first Sisak, then shut down the refinery in Rijeka. It's then known for illegal retailing from the INA. And that's why you've got gas stations today, so people used to work there for cca 6 thousand kunas for an indefinite amount of time and make them a much larger number, today they're doing a much smaller number. They're being forced to do more under poor conditions for all those who used to be more, this time they're working for a certain time, for about six months, and now they're working for three, four thousand kunas. Therefore, corruption has led to INA becoming a gas station.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58619	Thank you. The answer of the respected Branimir Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58620	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sincic, what you said is only one example of the very poor influence of politics on the economy. I don't speak to countries on purpose because HDZ likes to identify with the state, but they're not the state. And now I'm going to tell you how they solve problems and otherwise here's to this Lex Agrokor. They solve problems so that when someone asks the question of the refinery in Sisak, they give these people quits. That's who's asking the question as Mr. Predrag Sekulic is firing him. And it's settled. It's like having a fever and breaking a thermometer and saying I'm not going to watch you have a temperature. And you think that's how you healed yourself. Or, say you have an INA case, Mrs. Vesna Balenovic said something, filed reports, and she got fired nicely. In the Adriatic Bank, three employees warned that the bank is giving illegal, illegal loans to Agrokor, a state-owned state-owned bank under the direct authority of Minister Maric, all three employees are suspended. To them, justice is expressive. They don't need any courts and London and extradition, they get rid of it right away. Well, when it comes to Mr. Todorovic or something like his Kutles, etc. Well, then you get to him, you go raise 100 million euros, so nice in London, to Seishil, and we'll chase you, but we'll never catch you, and that's how it works for you. And so we could list examples like that here by morning. And I believe that the Croatian people still have a pretty good memory and that very soon and this shows the latest public change research to the end turn their backs on this government. So far it's turned 77%, and I believe that percentage will only grow, so let's see how this government survives for another three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58621	Thank you. The next replica is the respected Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58622	Thank you, Chairman. You may have misread our president's words. I suppose her adviser, Col. Bakic, will explain it to you, because the state of emergency might have thought it was excellent in Croatia, excellent in state? And that would be consistent with what the Prime Minister was saying today. Remember what he was saying to his fellow Stazic about the presumption of guilt, he turned his thesis a little bit. So I guess the government is also doing some underground Podokin village, which is why we are at the bottom of the scales of all possible in the European Union, so I guess that's kind of the goal of this government that will ultimately result in the improvement of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58623	The answer of the respected Branimir Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58624	Well, thank you very much, Your Honor. So the president said in Vukovar today morning that it was a state of emergency. I don't know maybe I'm not political enough. But for me, it's an extraordinary state of affairs, let's say, running tanks on the streets, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, as much as I have from some general culture information about the state of emergency, now I don't know what exactly the HDZ gentlemen have produced, but I believe that this tsunami is quite similar to what they do in the Croatian economy and society in general. As for improving their lives, they certainly made their lives better. I believe since they came to power that each of them better stands financially now. Here they get some new titles, and they share their medals. It's not bad for them. But Croatian citizens unfortunately live the same way they did a year ago. Here, I'd like to see how the factory workers have changed for them in the last year. I'd like to see how many scholarships are more divided into students, students. I'd like to see how many young people have returned from abroad and found a job here. As the public tenders operate, whether they are no longer employed by similarity, by party ties and family ties, but instead started to be employed by expertise, by quality, that's what I'd like to see. And I think it's really paradoxical that I have to get along with Colindo Grabar-Kitarovic. That should really make you all worried. Well, if it's that far, then each of you should say, "Wait a minute, so there's definitely something wrong here." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58625	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58626	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And there's no Mrs. Dalic, and there's no Prime Minister, so I'm gonna turn around for a little while then for a few more facts that I want to highlight. I hope the citizens who are watching this debate today see the point. They see what we wanted to show them that, in Croatia with the Agrokor affair, we are closing a circle that began in the 1990s when in criminal partner privatisation 400 thousand jobs disappeared so that today, at the end of that round, exactly once again, a partner job leads to the fact that perhaps those 40,000 jobs will not be saved, and individuals will again become rich again. What our important goal was to finally tell us who participated in the writing of Lex Agrokor and it is incomprehensible that the Deputy Prime Minister violates the Law on the right to access information and thus deny citizens the information they need to receive under the Constitution. It denies the simple reason that the writing of the law included the partnering principle of work and made it possible for the vulture fund to draw significant money on the shoulders of Croatian citizens and thus make it rich. And today, several times, it has been said that all the small suppliers are calmed down, which unfortunately is not true. And this is about millions of kunas that will ruin a number of small households and question their existence. Therefore, I am telling the citizens to follow this Parliament and see that in this assembly, when it comes to fighting for the interests of citizens, it is certainly the SDP that does everything to ensure better health care, better education, decent wages, unlike the vast majority that fights only for its interests, for its arrests. And what kind of arrests are they when they can also place a plumber as the head of the library because it's supposed to be professional since it's HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58627	We have a replica of the respected representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58628	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Jovanovic mentioned small suppliers who did not receive the money. It's usually those small suppliers who work for organized producers. If you look closely at the list of those organizers, you would see that they are usually members of a party or sponsors of the same party that is currently in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58629	The answer of the respected Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58630	A colleague, Tomic, is another evidence of a partner association and that we have a government that is on the move and will remain recorded as being a partner government. Ortačka in all segments, and even in the majority that maintains, the majority that maintains this government are four cornerstones based on the judiciary that holds them firmly with their raised hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58631	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58632	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's after more than 12 hours of discussion after St. Martin and us knocking on the door, I don't think I can say much new. But I'm going to say a few final thoughts that I want to end today, today's working day in the Parliament. I'm very glad there's no one from the government, but I guess they're very busy buying the hands they need. So intransparency, lack of information, rejection of dialogue by the prime minister, that's what we were talking about. And if the only way to bring the Prime Minister to this House who chose to give us answers to questions is to ask the government's trust, then we'll do it. Then we'll do it because I as an agent no matter what I'm in opposition, I feel responsible. I feel responsible for Croatia's future. And I'll always say what's wrong. I'll criticise it. I'll make a suggestion. That's what we did. That's what we did, and the answer was you have no idea, we'll do it our way. HDZ when it seeks consensus then it's a consensus of HDZ, so you're going to give us Bianca's support for what we want to do. If you won't, then you're not up for consensus, so very nice colleagues and colleagues. We all live in Croatia and want to live in Croatia. We want our children to stay here, that's how we have to behave. That's how we have to act. We're not here against each other. There are no enemies sitting here. Maybe rivals politically, but enemies don't. What we are different about is how to do something, how we think something should be done better for Croatia and our citizens. And it's good to be different. But if you gentlemen are looking for a consensus, if you want support, if you want to make a deal, then you need to talk. So Mr. Plenkovic here is in the absence of somewhere where you've been disfellowshipped already from the session I want to tell you that the next time you talk about community and when you call for unity and support that you think very carefully about this, because we've called for countless times to talk. You didn't take that hand once. And I hope for myself, and for all the citizens, and for my friends, my children, etc. that it won't happen to Agrokora what I think it will, and that's no good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58633	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58634	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I first want to apologize to all the MPs and citizens who were not here today between 15 and 23 hours and I missed this fruitful debate that way. But during that time I stayed in Zagorje with party experts to change Croatia where we and farmers worked out a programme to save villages and organise cooperatives. And when we're done, one of them tells me – Professor, please pass on what I will now tell you to the MPs in the Parliament. Here, I promised I'd pass it on. He says, "Looking at this debate in the Parliament today, I have concluded that it is better for citizens to watch that show "Love is in the country" than for this debate in the Parliament because at least Croatia would have any use if nothing was due to birth." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58635	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58636	Today I asked some questions from my colleagues, Bauku, and my colleague Bauk said or asked what would make Croatia look like the Living Wall was in power? And that's what people most often care about, what our solutions are. Here's what I can tell you. I need to say that Croatia would look in that case. First of all, the solutions to the performance would be brought by courts, not public notebooks. The bankruptcy law would require small OPGs and small suppliers to be charged first, and then banks behind them. Croatia would look so that the CNBs would not be a currency exchanger of foreign credit institutions, but a sovereign central bank of a sovereign state. In other words, direct money emissions finance the state, not that the state depends on foreign banks' loans. Also, if the Living Wall were in power, Croatia would not lead a policy of sanctions that it does not benefit economically from. If the Living Wall were in power, the poor wouldn't be bathed in electricity and water. If the Living Wall were in power, the loans wouldn't be tied to the currency clause, they'd only be in kunas. If the Living Wall were in power, there would be no obligation to install divisions that are proven to be unsaved. If the Living Wall were in power, citizens who do not want to be warmed up through a collective heating system could be excluded from it on their own. If the Living Wall were in power, when you sit on a fish and throw a hook into the sea you wouldn't have to pay 500 kuna permission to fish. If the Living Wall were in power, it wouldn't have blocked 330 thousand citizens, I can guarantee it because the executive system would have been changed. No more Hanžekovic and similar to him could crush millions on the back of the poor. If the Living Wall were in power, Robert Jezic would return 5m euros of bribes intended for Sanader. If the Living Wall were in power, Mr. Ivica Todorovic would not run along the streets of London, but would be directed by the police to Remetinec both in court and back. So a rival system like so far has been from Agrokor to Vlad and back, so we would introduce from the Living Wall a rival system back door from Agrokor to Remetinec and back. If the Living Wall were in power to rule Evey Sanader, it would become a power of attorney, and he would be in prison today. If the Living Wall were in power, if the Living Wall were in the power of the ladies and gentlemen in this House, decisions would be made for the benefit of the citizens. You're wondering which one? Here's a simple decision. All overpaid loans or overpaid interest would be paid back to citizens. What happened was I have already repeated 100 times that banks were illegally changing interest rates to the benefit of citizens and that the court found that they had been taken away from them by money belonging to citizens rather than by banks. And not every citizen would have to have a single court dispute with the bank to pay back the money he owns, but as in Austria, just the banks would get a warrant to return the overpaid money. If the Living Wall were in the hands of the family, they would not live in fear of raids by foreign credit institutions or credit cooperatives such as the recently family in the Jastrebar family Pilate. Dear ladies and gentlemen, if the Living Wall were in power, the minimum wage wouldn't be 2 thousand 600 kuna, because it wouldn't be possible to live on. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Living Wall were in power, it would not be planned to buy fighter planes, but rather to plan to treat sick children who have been cut off for treatment, although there are drugs because they are too expensive. For God's sake, it's too expensive, but it's not expensive when Robert Jezic doesn't return 5m euros of bribes that don't belong to him. If the Living Wall were in power, ladies and gentlemen, the government wouldn't be getting new official limos. The government would not drive an official plane costing 10m euros, nor would citizens be forced to dig through garbage because the minimum pension would be 1500 kuna, not if 100 000 of our citizens survived with 500 kuna or less. If the Living Wall were in power, the VAT wouldn't be 25%. If the Living Wall were in power of the annual state, it wouldn't have paid 45 billion kuna loans to foreign creditors and thrown that liquidity out of the country. If the Living Wall were in power, the workers of the refinery of Sisak should not be afraid for their future. If Live Wall were in power, Deute Telecom wouldn't be pulling a billion euros out of the country every year, or Pliva or Teva would do the same. Dear ladies and gentlemen, if the Living Wall were in power, the government would be run by the people and carried out by the people's will, not the will of foreign corporations and creditors. The tavern would be legalized and the Croatian village would flourish. Vaccination would not be mandatory If there was a living wall in power [[Intruder Reiner: colleagues and colleagues.]] Membership in Croatia would not be mandatory [[Intruder Reiner: My colleagues and colleagues, please.]] Also, if the Living Wall were in power, people would not be in courts that were arrested with 2 grams of marijuana, but in prisons would be people like Ivica Todorovic and Ivo Sanader, people like Nadan Vidosevic as well as Robert Jezic so that he could tell Ivo Sanader those who give and receive bribes, you would be in prison, and ordinary people would not be bullied by the system. [[/Intruder Reiner: Please allow your colleague Pernar to say what would be the case if the Living Wall were in power. Please, just keep your voice down.]] If the Living Wall were in power, young people would stay in this country, not run away from it. If the Living Wall were in power, Franjo Tudjman's Airport would not be put in a concession to the French who are now making a million-dollar profit at our expense because they've raised the transfer prices. If you're on a plane, half your plane ticket goes to the airport for their fees. We're being robbed in our own country. If the Living Wall were in power on highways, you would not pay toll, but as in all other normal European countries, there would be vignettes and you would pay 50 euros as in Switzerland and you could drive all year round the highways. You wouldn't have to spend a lot of money and wait in endless rows, in endless rows of ladies and gentlemen, every time people go to the sea or come back from the sea in front of the tollhouses, because vignettes are a much simpler solution and much better for those who use highways than this toll collection system. If the Living Wall were in power, the plumber wouldn't be the director of the library. If the Living Wall were in power, the waiter in Zadar wouldn't be the curator of the museum. If the Living Wall were in power, you wouldn't need a HDZ membership card to get to work. If the Living Wall were in power, hungry children wouldn't crash in schools. If the Living Wall were in power, the courts would not be interested in whether Ivan Pernar wrote graphite or not, but rather in the matter of why Robert Jezic did not return 5m euros to the state budget. If the Living Wall were in power, we'd be living in an orderly state where laws rule, not a mob, where citizens don't have to dig in garbage, ladies and gentlemen, and in which there isn't and live in a country where there's no row in front of a soup kitchen. In such a country we would live and the citizens of our country would have the right if they had no accommodation they would have the right to be given accommodations to the asylum seekers. The same right should be given to our citizens who have no place to live. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the moment the Croatian citizens decide to bring the Wall to power, they will also live in such a state, not in the country where people who systematically destroy it and trade it as their own property for the last 25 years, calling for patriotism, faith, Marxism, socrealism, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58637	Thank you. And if the Living Wall were in power, I'd be home sleeping, not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58638	Mr. Jandrokovic, if the Living Wall were in power, you'd be with us and maybe you'd be in the same place.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58639	... Thank you, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that what you're offering us, is that what you're offering the coalition?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58640	Mr. Jandrokovic, you might be standing next to the flaw as you stood next to Ivo Sanader and Jadranka Kosor, Karamarka and now Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58641	I'd love to have my colleague Pernar together, you and I in HDZ as we used to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58642	Mr. Jandrokovic, and we all know that's not going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58643	Okay. A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58644	Thank you very much. You will notice that the Living Wall is approaching the authorities best according to Mr. Jandrokovic. If Mr. Jandrokovic says that the Living Wall is near power, it could happen. He's had an unrepeated sense multiple times so far within HDZ, but since I see that he's joking, he's still living wall away from power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58645	Comrade Maras, let me remind you. I've always been in HDZ. I never changed the party to be in power. That's it. Thank you, then, if that's what you thought. Do we still have a replica? My friend, you're not going to? Okay. Then let's move on. We still have the last individual debate. Dear colleague Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58646	Thank you, Mr. President. So it's hard to say something constructive after this speech by my colleague Pernar. What I am doing for myself and for the public who watched us all day long wanted to conclude is that we have organized a grotesque for all those who have followed today's work of the Parliament that this was today a barren debate, but what is one good lesson for the future is that these discussions are being conducted before the law is passed. So, this debate today would make sense if we had on the agenda not to call off the Government, but to pass a law on the extraordinary administration that was adopted under the name Lex Agrokor. I'll just remind you now that we're all fighting for great rights and justice, that when we passed the Emergency Administration Act, none of the agents asked the question of property. Therefore, not every reason to initiate the extraordinary administration procedure is over-indebted. And we could come to an even more grotesque situation to save Agrokor, to clean it up and then simply re-enjoin it by Ivica Todoric. What should have followed, and what did not follow was the blockade of his property because as many speakers today were visible, so it was evident at the time of the adoption of the Lex Agrokor Law that Mr. Todorovic had drawn out the name of the 100m euro and that at the time the law was passed, the problems in Agrokor were actually the reason for the law. Such a situation was to be reacted, and if some parliamentary representatives could follow from house to apartment all the way to Gaeva, Mr. Todorovic was to be followed. Like this today, he was released from court in London, and why not be released from court in London and why he would not be released if 14 of his associates were released and because of the particularly difficult circumstances of the crime that they are charged with not being detained in an investigative prison, he is free to walk in London, Matan has crossed the border and you will find it difficult to catch him together. And this is an invitation to the government and to all of us to give the judiciary the necessary resources, to make the judiciary truly the third branch, that the only one who will suffer will not be the maids of wages because you can save 7 Agrokor and 400,000 jobs if your creators of this chaos continue to drive in expensive cars and be on Pantochak. If the messages are going to be sent to you by Mr. Todorovic from London, then this is not the state. Without a fair sentence, without a stable judicial system, no measure or jobs matter to you. So this debate should have been conducted long before, it should have been taken into account both the criminal elements and the property. And I believe we're all going to learn some lessons from this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58647	Thank you. And we go to the final debate of this day, for it is 11:59:42; this is John Willibor Sincic, the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58648	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, here we are a little closer, a little closer to the Living Wall, perhaps that means something. What to say after all day's debate, yes, we have broken institutions, injustice is at every turn, the country is double criteria. Says the German old saying "Little thieves we hang, we take off our hat in front of the big ones", and that's what Croatia has been witnessing lately. One of the main causes of this is a poor political system, we have a democratic deficit, we have a run, we have a flyover, we have a buy-over, political trade and corruption that is not sanctioned or envisaged in the large elements of our legislation so that it can be sanctioned. We have one thought of the great architect of the Croatian judiciary and the political system of Vladimir Seks that should, be careful, raise the threshold and introduce a two-party in Croatia. There is one word that is often heard in this House when discussing Ustashas and partisans, which I have never used for such a system, which is fascism. Such a political system instead of going towards political change, to allow a new generation to bring its changes. Mr. Seks' idea was to cement forever, to spin two of the biggest parties around Croatia like the sun and the moon. It is deeply undemocratic and scandalous, in fact, that this is proposed as a solution to the Croatian political system. For damage done to our country, we will vote for the government's impeachment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58649	Thank you. And now finally, on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58650	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. After this long debate on trust, things are finally clear, masks are down, the government has lost one concrete answer, to one specific question that we have asked. What's more, in her answer she pointed out how things were going, it's in the answer no. 2. where she said that the Knighthead Fund itself had actually proposed before the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner a controversial roll up that discriminated against Croatian laws and destroyed the foundations of insolvency law. So everything was ready for the appointment of commissioners by the government through a bankruptcy manager and then there was a roll-up that was proposed by the scavenger fund itself. This raises the big question of the future work of Parliament, the investigative committees, the way that this should work in the future and one great one, let's put it this way, one big flaw. It will obviously be necessary to amend the Law on Investigation Commissions in a way that the majority in the Investigative Commission have opposition. And on the other hand, what is now quite clear is that this is a partner government that writes partner laws and has written and prepared a controversial partner contract. This is very clear after today's debate. We continue our fight, we will insist on the truth, and we will insist on the special establishment of the Investigation Commission only for lex Agrokor to determine what circumstances, what night meetings, what arrangements and what secret and cloudy combinations preceded the adoption of this law that will have profound and inconspicuous consequences for all Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58651	I thank you, this is what we came to the end of the debate and I'm closing it and we'll vote when the conditions are met and that's in a few minutes. We are now going to vote on the debated agenda points. The first is the proposal to launch trust with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the proposals are 31 MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for making a decision on distrusting the government as a whole require a half majority of all MPs, thus 76 votes. Now I'm voting, who's to decide on distrusting the government of the Republic of Croatia? Please, let's vote. I find that 137 MPs voted, 59 voted in favour, 78 MPs were against and 0 MPs were abstentioned. I find that no decision has been taken to show mistrust to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia continues to enjoy the trust of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58654	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister together with ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At the 31st session held on 8 November 2017, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the requests of the attorneys of private prosecutor Anita Perković Škalic addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Vlaha Orepić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the libel referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Vlaho Orepić is a representative of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Following the debate, the Committee shall be based on Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 6 votes, have proposed to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following Decision: "In the course of the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings against the representative Vlaha Orepic, at the request of the attorney-in-law of the private prosecutor Anita Perković Škalic of Zagreb, on the occasion of an action brought on 28 October 2017, to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the criminal part of the libel referred to in Articles 149 and 2. The criminal law." To not read the explanation, it is a private lawsuit and there is a clear view of the Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58655	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm locking her up right now. And then we'll vote on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I am voting on the motion for a decision which reads: "In the course of the term of the term of office, the authorisation to initiate the criminal proceedings against the representative Vlaha Orepic, at the request of the authority of the private prosecutor Anita Perković Sakalic of Zagreb, on the appeal filed on 28 October 2017, to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the criminal part of the libel referred to in Articles 149 and 2. Penalty law. Please, let's vote. I would like to point out that most of the 127 votes in favour of and 2 against the decision taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. And here's to the end, we have a report on the start of acting as deputy deputy deputy Maria Alfirev. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58657	Thank you. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 31st session held on 8 November 2017 the proposal of the SDP of Croatia for the appointment of deputy representative Ivan Klarin, who was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by act of 8 November 2017. The Commission has established that the term of office of agent Ivan Klarin, on the basis of Article 14(1), shall be suspended. The Law on the Election of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament began on 1 October 2017, that there are no candidates with won preferences and that the SDP is in accordance with Article 42(3). The law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Ms. Maria Alfirev as deputy MP. This meets the law lays down the conditions for the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Maria Alfirev. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the selection of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 9(2) and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously with 6 votes in favour, proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the start of acting as deputy deputy. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1906/2006 of 21 December 2006 on the conclusion, on behalf of the European Union, of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 4 thereof, and in particular Article 4 thereof, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will begin acting on the day when the Parliament determines the
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58658	Thank you to the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate now. I am concluding the debate and voting on the proposal for a decision by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the launch of the conduct of the parliamentary office of Deputy Representative Maria Alfirev. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous, with 133 votes for the decision made, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made this decision, we move on to making an oath to the MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, after which he or she shall, by name, appoint the representatives, or in this case, a representative. The appointed representative, or representative, stands up and pronounces the word I swear. I'll read the text of the oath now. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work to uphold the Constitution and the law and respect the legal forefather and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." I now ask representative Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58660	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58661	Congratulations to the MPs on their sworn oath and I wish her success in her future work. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you won't go home, we can continue but I believe you will. So we start on Wednesday at 9:30 with the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, and the rest of the schedule is sent to the email address. Thank you and good night. Session interrupted at 12:25 p.m. Dear Parliamentarians, honourable parliamentary representatives, we continue our work. Before we begin to supplement the agenda, we have a report on the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I would like to ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to report to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58663	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 32nd session held on 6 December 2017 the written notice of Agent Ivan Kovačić of 30 November 2017 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that he was based on Article 14. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament puts its parliamentary mandate on hold on 5 December 2017. Dr Ivan Kovačić, doctor of science, was elected representative of the 9th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate on the list in the Xth Election Unit and is MOST Independent List MOST in accordance with Article 42(2). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated as deputy representative of Antu Pranic. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate for Ivan Kovacic as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Ante Pranic. The Commission shall, by means of Articles 14, 11 and 42. Law on election of legislators on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and in Article 14, paragraph 2 and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, with 5 votes to the ZA, proposed to the Croatian Assembly the decision to hold the parliamentary mandate and start acting as deputy deputies. On 5 December 2017, the appointment of a representative of science doctor Ivan Kovačić begins. Ante Pranic, acting as deputy representative, is starting to act in accordance with Article 9(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58664	I thank my colleague, Tušek. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers, I'm closing the debate. And before we go to the vote, we need to determine the quorum. Please engage. I find that we have a sufficient number of MPs, so I am voting on the proposal for a decision by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 88 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate Immunity Commission. The MP's not here today, I heard that the information they informed me would be tomorrow, so he'll take an oath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58665	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, good morning to you. We continue with the work of the plenary session. Before we continue our work, we will join in making an oath for MP Ante Pranic. Article 7 The Rules of Procedure have been established that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath and thereafter call the representatives. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Mr. Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58666	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58667	Thank you very much, I congratulate Agent Anti Pranic on his sworn oath and wish him success in performing an honorable and responsible representative's duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58668	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats because we will now go to the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.15 HOURS]] Before I go to the vote, I will ask only the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Zarko Tušek, to submit the report, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58669	I thank the president, my colleagues and my colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 33rd session held on 6 December 2017 the written notice of the representatives of Dr.sc. Dear Prgomet of 30 November 2017, who informed the President of the Parliament to base Article 14. The Law on the Election of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament puts its parliamentary mandate on hold on 1 December 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Stipe Shapina as deputy representative of Draga Prgomet. The Commission has established that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of Draga Prgomet's parliamentary mandate as a condition for the start of acting as his deputy, Stipe Sapina, to act. Following that, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall be based on Articles 14, 11 and 42 of the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 14(2) and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously with 5 votes in favour, proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the start of the term of office of MP and the start of acting as deputy representative on 1 December 2017. In accordance with Article 9(2) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act as Deputy Representative of Stipe Shapin on the day when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the exchange institutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58670	I'm opening a debate. Since no one is answering for a word, I'm closing the debate and we're going to determine the quorum, please engage. I find that we have a quorum and that we can approach the vote, so let us vote on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, please vote. I find it unanimous, with 114 votes for the decision made, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Now we will comply with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure shall establish that the new representative after the oath becomes a full representative. In accordance with Article 7. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the chairperson shall read the text of the oath and thereafter, by name, call the representatives. A representative when called rises and pronounces swears. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." I ask counsel Stipe Sapino to swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58671	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-10-0.u58672	Thank you and congratulate the representative on his sworn oath, I wish him success in carrying out this honorable and responsible representative's duties. We're going to a debate. The first point is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, First Reading, P.Z. Number 215. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. I would like to ask the representative of the proponent of the respected management minister, Lovre Kuščević, to give an additional explanation of the proposed law. Here you go, Minister.
