ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59176	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ms. Assembly MP and the gentlemen of the Assembly. The Croatian Government gave a positive assessment of the proposal of the Family Agricultural Economy Act on 26 October 2017 and referred it to the first reading procedure in the Croatian Parliament. The family agricultural holding or the short-term CAP represents a strategically important organisational form of the agricultural holding in the Republic of Croatia necessary to achieve sustainable development, to achieve the principle of general food safety and to preserve natural agricultural resources and to improve and increase the competitiveness of agriculture as a whole. The proposal for a law lays down the conditions for carrying out the economic activity of agriculture and related complementary activities carried out in the authorised framework by the organisational forms of the CAP, as well as the conditions and arrangements for enrollment in the register of family holdings, i.e., the registration of OPGs. Furthermore, the responsibility, rights and obligations of the holder and members of the OPG, the competent authorities, in changing, applying and controlling the law, shall be determined. As a natural person, the OPG also carries out the economic activity of agriculture and related complementary activities of the production and sale of products or the provision of services with a purpose of obtaining income or profit on the market. As part of the implementation of the Agriculture Act so far, the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development shall keep a register of farmers, which shall be registered on two basis by farmers. One is related to the processing of requests for support and the other to the sale of agricultural products on the market. An integral part of the register, farmers, will also be an OPG register, established as a public official record with credible and up-to-date data. Therefore, the implementation of the law will benefit from already established infrastructure and existing human and operational capacities, paying agencies, and existing information platforms for the operation of bases within the registers of farmers. Since there are always differences between economic operators, for example by size and organisational form of entrepreneurs, so there are differences between agricultural economies, i.e. the CAPs. In this respect, we have OPGs that operate marketly but also those that are engaged in agricultural production in very small or only for personal needs to be met and are rarely on the market. The same rules apply to all of them. Some forms of agricultural entrepreneurs can edit their specific problems through specific laws. For example, cooperatives and through the Law on Cooperatives, crafts through the Law on crafts, and a company through the Law on Commercial Society. Until now, OPGs as natural persons have not been recognised as economic operators, who need to be able to provide, regulate individual rights, i.e. the obligation by special law. Therefore, the OPG does not have a basic regulation that allows it to identify all its specificities, but which also provides for the possibility of simplifying the conditions for carrying out agricultural activity, on the principles of experience with positive EU practices. It's one of the most important reasons why this law is passed. Furthermore, this law allows for the monitoring of the continuity, activity and actual traceability of food, monitoring of pesticide use, the state and protection of land from damage and pollution, the control of abandoned and unprocessed land and its protection, as well as the protection of animal welfare, human health, animal and plant life, and ultimately the protection of nature and the environment as a whole. In order to achieve the income, the OPG holder shall carry out the activities of agriculture and related complementary activities independently and permanently through the use of own or rented production resources, and the members of the OPG may, respectively, participate in the work. For the obligations arising from carrying out the economic activity of agriculture, the holder shall be responsible for his or her assets and the members of the CAP shall be in solidarity. OPG holders, all OPG jobs may be assisted by family households, without obligation to start a working relationship. And in occasional, seasonal and temporary jobs, family members living outside the household can help without the obligation to start a working relationship. The OPG register and the OPG register shall include available production resources and may depend on additional activities, the OPG may be an OPG for production, the OPG for production and processing, the OPG for production of services or the OPG for production, processing and services. The OPG may carry out the economic activities of agriculture and additional activities entered in the OPG register, which may be, the production of agricultural food products on the OPG, the production of non-food products and general uses items on the OPG, the provision of catering, tourist and other services at the OPG and the provision of other contents and activities on the OPG. By now, according to the Agriculture Act, which sets out the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, there has been an OPG obligation to keep records of sales, however, without connecting production data, this system in the control of sales is ineffective, making access to the gray market too open and farmers are inevitably losing part of their income. The OPG Act provides for ways to keep records of production, services and sales which enable the control system to be more efficient. Structural changes include agricultural and supplementary activities of family farms. It intends to enable agricultural restructuring and further action to reduce the barriers both administratively bureaucratic and fiscally, to meet the conditions for economic growth and the development of family agricultural economies. We have an unequivocally opened up the possibility for us in the next period of time, the extensions covering agricultural activities which may be covered by the OPG, encourage the OPG to develop its own capacities in the production of agricultural and food products and to provide services to the OPG in agriculture and related activities in ways that enable better use of production capacities, and better use of knowledge, skills and work of OPG members. The intention is also to provide appropriate motivation, that a family manages the OPG independently and permanently to enable sustainable management and self-employment of family members with detimulation, depletion of production resources. The aim of the adoption of the law is to define the OPG as a recognizable and accepted organisational form of farmers, which has the property of a natural person representing the holder as a responsible person. The target group comprises the OPGs which have holders under 56 years and the quality production volume, which needs to be directed towards entrepreneurial activities, in order to continue their work in agriculture in areas where they live and work and in particular direct them to further professionalisation and education. All of the above points to the need to define a different framework for those holdings, which are engaged in agriculture in a very limited scope in the context of their own needs by those dealing with the product, entrepreneurship and market-oriented scope. In order not to create a legal gap for the CAPs entered in the register of farmers in accordance with the applicable Agricultural Act, we are taking into account the CAPs whose economic size of the holding is less than 3000 euros per standard output, which for the personal needs of agricultural resources. But, to which carrying out economic activity is not the main activity, in a way that, for the same CAPs, the Agriculture Act will be defined as... OPG. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The prescribed possibility to continue to be entered and, for their established rights and obligations, shall not be changed or reduced. Detention of the level of their rights will also be ensured through the construction of the new Agriculture Act already mentioned. The OPG Act will allow the production resources of the OPG necessary to carry out the economic activity of agriculture to be protected from enforcement in the same way as the assets necessary for family life and housing. This law does not violate the existing legal framework, i.e. it does not prescribe the conditions of the tax system and the scope of other regulations. However, it will enable the identification of the OPG problem in business and create assumptions for the identification of the OPG target group, assuming that the OPG can in a clear way demonstrate the costs and revenues of business in relation to the cost of life, give the possibility to further adapt the fiscal commitments of the OPGs, and direct agricultural policies towards the needs of the OPGs. Proposal for a law, communication with the Croatian public and family agricultural economies in the context of an extensive field campaign and a double e-consultation procedure has passed, means by assessment of the impact of the regulations and regular e-consultation procedure, and has been submitted to the opinion of the authorities of the state administration. The vast majority of comments were accepted and incorporated into the bill. The bill finally received positive opinions from the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59177	Thank you. We have eight replicas. We're starting with our first respected colleague, Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59178	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's one thing I'm going to say, one principled remark that bothers me in this bill. In fact, this is a very important law because according to data, 97% of all agricultural areas are in the hands of one natural person in the EU. Nearly 70% of agricultural land is covered by family farms, and 60% of all agricultural holdings that are larger than 100 ha are in the hands of family farms. So what we want in the Republic is this law because they say that the family agricultural economy is not only an economy, but it is also a way of life. For this reason, I am considered a provision in this legislative proposal in Article 9(2) that a stranger may have a registered family agricultural holding in the Republic of Croatia. Let him do it another way, let him have corporate activity, let him form a society of limited responsibility whatever he wants. But if we allow such a provision with all those remarks that we made when it was the Agricultural Land Act so that foreigners could buy land here, then we'll be in a position that the Family Agricultural Economy Act will completely miss the target. So, the survival of the Croatian village, the prevention of the emigration of the population in particular, we stress Slavonia, especially young people, and with this in some way the demographic death of the Republic of Croatia because the degree of urbanisation in the Republic of Croatia is very high, it is 70% somewhere, and we have very negative economic indicators. The degree of urbanisation does not follow the economic development of the Republic of Croatia but rather the collapse of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. Even if we do so to the end of the Croatian village, indeed who will live there. I find this provision of the law unnecessary and that you should remove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59179	Do you want to respond to the replica or do you want to? Okay. Then let's move on. Dear colleague Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59180	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like you to respond to my reply as I see you've begun your non-response practice. In this law, the holder of the OPG cannot be a person who also has a registered trade for agricultural activity as well as cannot be the holder of the OPG of a person who has more than 25% share in a company that also has a registered activity for agriculture. So I'm wondering if you're aware of that, that almost every day. i.e. a company in the Republic of Croatia within all its activities actually has a registered activity for agriculture, so does this actually mean that you have some kind of special fund to finance all these changes in activity, because if you do not know the changes in activity in the company costs a minimum of two to three thousand kuna, and it takes at least a month. Or do you just want all the O.P.G.s to close? Because I don't understand which of those two things you want, because I can't understand that someone can bring this article into one of these laws. It's another thing. What with a number of defense cooperatives, do you want them to close because you want to create bureaucraticly acceptable OPGs because in today's time in 2017 when all countries are struggling and it's an innovative approach, the ways of red tape are solved. No, we're passing a law where we're making new bureaucratic problems by law and I'd like to ask you an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59181	Let's move on. Dear colleague of Sladolev, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59182	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Here's actually two questions. Therefore, this law introduces, introduces an OPG which must be worn within it, containing the name of the OPG. The mass of the OPGs has its old names and because of this administrative measure they will have to make new stamps, new plates and I see no reason why these people would not keep their old name. And one more question. It is also required, according to your proposal, to keep records of the production and sale of its own products and to submit the report to both the Ministry and the Payment Agency. I think it's a new commitment and a new parafiscal imposition, and we suggest that those reporting obligations be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59183	Let's move on. Dear fellow Shimic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, it is clear to all of us that this law is extremely important for Croatian agriculture and by passing this law in the end we want to show how important the OPG is to us. The OPGs for us should be one of the pillars of the development of Croatian agriculture, but what we now have on the table doesn't seem to be a good basis for that. We are pleased to see that, in changing this law through specific statuses in the executive procedures, it is nevertheless facilitating the process of the applicant of the OPG. However, we are making significantly worse positions for all those who, either by choice or by law, are the same part of the OPG as members and are responsible for obligations as solid guarantees. So we think that these provisions, each member is solidly accountable for the obligations he does not have and does not have to have any influence, and we do not think that it is correct for them at the end of the day and what we are going to suggest in the debate to move this provision. We also have a similar situation in case a member of the same family household is a beneficiary of a pension or a regular student or student or is necessarily provided on another basis, and in his property he has certain resources that are used by the OPG. Also, by force of law, the law fits here as a solid guarantee whether it wants it or not. On the other hand, if that property, for example, some land which it has not available to the holder and which it wishes to give, formally it does not, the holder may be punished up to 15 000 kuna if he carries out activity on an unrecorded resource. Therefore, they are brought back to a worse position by the person who are members of the OPG whether by choice or by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59185	Fifth replica, dear fellow Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59186	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I hope that by visiting Croatia you have also met the situation of numerous agricultural economies, their households, the problems they share. One of the great, key ones that has not been solved by the Ministry of Construction despite all efforts, which is to resolve the property-legislative relations of legalization and all of what you are actually putting on behalf of agriculture that this law will solve. Incomprehensible, inapplicable, to me it is personally unknown why the Ministry of Agriculture insists that the property, meaning the property in which the agricultural activity is carried out, must be registered as such, otherwise you cannot have a seat there. If someone is a worse agricultural producer today, if they have a head office, they do agricultural activity, they may be having trouble inheriting, or I'll tell you, maybe in this time of year when we remind ourselves of the injuries, there are a number of people who have disappeared in the war, their families have not, they don't even have the strength, and they always believe that something will work out in a positive way, they haven't been found. What about their property? What do they do to their families who do agricultural activity in these areas, do they need to disappear, stop? Also, what with these facilities, they are still being used today, somewhere it may be just a single vault over any machine to which it is used, they do not need minimum technical conditions, but they need periodic checks so there will be some inspector and we will have a number of situations if you really think that with the application of this provision they will become a much better farmer and that it will help the Croatian village? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59187	The sixth replica, dear colleague Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59188	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, the HSS Club and I support the adoption of this OPG Act as well as the Law on the Prevention of Unfair Commercial Practices of Agricultural Land Law and a series of other laws which each person in his work determines a specific area of agricultural production in Croatia. However, what is not missing and that is what should be the first step in addressing the situation in agriculture in Croatia, which is a strategy for the development of agriculture. At present we do not have it, we see a series of poor steps in managing agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, as a result that over the past 10 years we have lost more than 20 000 OPGs from the register. Will this law and the laws that I mentioned improve the situation on the ground, probably yes, but ultimately we will not solve it and especially when the proposer himself in his opening argument states that it is in the register... A million and 150 000 hectares and according to the State Statistics Office is a million and 500 000 hectares in processing and in some form of production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a state wishing to be arranged, it can allow itself to have 450,000 hectares of state agricultural land outside the register system and the ARCOD. I think we need to talk about it, that we need to find a way to solve it. And it bothers us from the HSS that the target group is 60 thousand OPGs. So the target group must be 165 000 OPGs registered in the register, preserve every one who wants to deal with agricultural production and stay in his village, there we need to find models to protect them from all 165,000, not just favoring a particular group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59189	Next replica, dear colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59190	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I wish the minister were there, the minister and I, God knows and you can see it from the media, we didn't always agree on this, I'll say I'm cautiously enthusiastic, cautiously optimistic, so I'll be able to say that in the debate further. I'm glad the ministry in this case has shown that in dialogue, first of all, we can get to quality law with farmers. A law intended for them. But I would like to use this replica to point out another problem that I was already talking about. The one I talked about two weeks ago, the one I spoke about yesterday, that I'm going to talk about today. So we regulate how our OPGs are going to operate, the way they're going to write down their assets, etc., and the state on the other hand doesn't seem to care much about its assets. It is a company, a strategic company for the Republic of Croatia, which belongs to the portfolio of your ministry, which is the Croatian Forests d.o.o. Namely, if you take the Court Register, this morning I wrote a new copy, it still writes to you persons authorised to represent Ivan Pavelić, Marija Vekić, Ivan Ištok. These people haven't been there in two years. The Supervisory Board was not appointed on 19.3.2016 when the last Supervisory Board expired, the Government appointed it 2 weeks ago if I am not mistaken, it is not yet seen in the Court Register. I'm asking you a question, so who's overseeing this business? Who's in charge because I can't read it from the Court Register. Although enrolment in the court register is an informative declaration of nature he must be made and how we can expect our businessmen to do so if the state has not done so for such an important company for two years now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59191	Replica number eight, dear fellow Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59192	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State. So from what the Government is doing, and especially the Ministry of Agriculture, it seems to me that the emphasis has been placed on meeting to help especially those small producers and we need to look at this law in this context. It wasn't always the case in Croatia, it used to be nice to the big ones, take care of it more. It seems to me that according to everything the Ministry of Agriculture is doing, it is now seen how to help the small ones, how to help those who can indeed produce in the Republic of Croatia. And in this regard, I also look at these provisions in this law that protect the OPGs from enforcement in this regard, and I also see provisions that try to find a better way of financing, or that financial institutions can better identify the OPGs which has not been the case so far. Perhaps these parts of your further interventions will further elaborate and I see them as key elements in this law and in general in the policies that both the Ministry and the Government implements in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59193	Thank you. And we have another one even though I didn't notice it, I was told by a respected colleague, Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59194	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State. This OPG Act, although it does not seem to be so, one transumptive point demitologies a single national myth. And that national myth is the state's care of defenders. If we accept this bill, and if the OPG holders can only be adult, business-worthy persons, then we've moved one whole population away from being able to do something, to do it, and within that population, the most numerous is this defense. I believe that we should take this decision seriously, intent, intensity, and return to a new myth instead of demiology, which is a myth in which we will succeed in treating all our citizens in the same way. And if those who have a partial business ability we will not view as citizens who are incompetent to the face of the law, the world and this ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59195	We're done with the replicas now. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. It is the first club of HDZ representatives and respected counterpart Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59196	...counsel MPs, ladies and gentlemen, secretary of state. Here is my honor and pleasure for the first time in the Croatian Parliament to welcome the presentation of the Law on OPG which has long been in the drawers of the competent ministry and many governments have had the opportunity to step up and go into the draft of this law. But to this day we have not experienced it, thank God today has come to our shelves and it is finally the turn to define what it is, in general, the OPG. The OPG is defined as the form of an organisational form of an economic operator as a natural person who, in order to generate income, performs the activity of agriculture and related supplementary activities independently and permanently, based on the work of its family members and the use of its own or rented production resources. Unlike farmers who are craftsmen or other legal persons of a limited company or a company of a shareholder, or d.o.o. agriculture in the organisational form of the CAP does not have its own basic regulation which would enable it to identify all specificities which it deals with and which prescribes the possibility of simplifying and adapting the conditions for carrying out economic agricultural activity on the principles and experiences of positive European practices. The OPG law provides a difference, a different framework for those agricultural holdings which are engaged in agriculture within households in a very limited scope for their own needs than those which achieve their economies dealing with agriculture, entrepreneurship and market-oriented coverage. It is this market-oriented agricultural holding that generates income from their activities that compete with other organisational forms of farmers that we have already listed. and d.d. and, for this reason, an essential legal regulation that will create for them approximately equal operating conditions. The intention is, in fact, to give the OPG Act an appropriate motivation that one family manages exactly one OPG in order to enable sustainable management and self-employment of members of this particular family and destimulating the depletion of agricultural resources. When entering the OPG register, and we depend on the additional activities of the OPG, the status which it wants, the OPG for production, processing, production and services, for production, processing and processing of services shall be selected. The OPG may carry out the economic activities of agriculture and additional activities entered in the OPG register and may be the production of agricultural food products on the OPG, the production of non-food products, the provision of catering and tourist and other services on the OPG and the provision of other facilities and activities. The paying agency will call within its activities on farmers with an economic size of the OPG SO greater than 3,000 euros to comply with the law in question on the principle of volunteering, that is, what is important. If someone doesn't want to enter the O.P.G. register, then they'll have to bring their resources in line with the provisions of the law. The adoption of this bill gives formal support to the OPGs to assist members of the fastest family without the obligation to have a working relationship, which is also a very important provision. In order not to create a tax gap for the CAPs whose economic size is less than 3 000 euros and which for personal needs deals with agriculture in the context of the use of natural resources, land and sales, i.e. by replacing those activities of unprocessed products, which are not the main activity or interest of agriculture. It is prescribed that such an OPG should be managed by the paying agency in accordance with the law setting out the objectives and measures of the agricultural policy or the Agriculture Act in the register of farmers. In this way, their formerfound rights are not diminished or changed. For the obligations incurred in carrying out the economic activity of agriculture, the OPG holders shall be responsible for all their assets and members of the OPG as solid guarantees. In order to achieve monetary demand against the OPG, it cannot be implemented against the OPG holder at the part of the agricultural resources entered in the OGP register necessary to carry out its economic activity. The implementation of the monetary demand cannot also be carried out on properties owned by the OPG holders and members of the OPG in which the perpetrator lives. In the event that the demand is greater than 20 thousand kunas in order to protect the implementation of agricultural resources before the implementation of the exercise on the basis of voluntary legal work, a standstill procedure must be carried out. In the event where the OPG has live animals to ensure sustainability of activities on the holding, it shall be possible to open a protected account that the confiscation cannot be carried out as a whole of the cash it has. A natural person may not have at the same time registered an OPG according to this law and craft, according to the Law on crafts. The OPG is the name under which the OPG operates and under which it participates in legal traffic. The OPG holder shall be a natural person, a member of the OPG, who shall be kept in the OPG register. The holder must be an adult, a business capable person, cannot be, can be the holder of only one OPG, cannot be a member of another OPG. The OPG holder may be a person, cannot be a person who has a registered craft for the activities of agriculture and forestry and cannot be a natural person who owns more than 25% of the shares in a company, i.e. a director, i.e. the chairman of a management or administration, or a responsible person in a commercial society. The law does not distort or prescribe the conditions of the tax system, however, it aims to create assumptions for the identification of target groups and the adaptation of agricultural holdings, assuming that the OPG can clearly show the costs and revenues of business in relation to the cost of life. And the intention is to open up the possibility of extending the scope of agricultural activities which may be covered by the OPG in the permitted form, to encourage OPGs to develop their own capacities in the production of agricultural and food products and to provide OPG services in agriculture related activities in ways that enable better use of production capacities and better use of the knowledge and skills and work of OPG members. As I have already said, many governments so far have tried to pass this OPG law. It took a long time for this law to come to our benches, it's very good that it came into procedure, he's good, he's in first reading. He'll probably see some more changes. The HDZ Club will support it and encourage it to vote as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59197	The exposure of counterpart Krizanic caused 10 replicas. Well, we're going first with my colleague Felak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59198	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Križanić, you have explained why the HDZ Club will support this OPG Act. I'm joining your positive reactions and I think it's finally been time to pass the Family Agriculturals Act. This is the first reading, and I agree with what you said in the end that there must be room for this law to still be completed. When a law is passed for the first time, it is difficult to predict all that could be covered by it and any ambiguity or perhaps problems that will arise. So I believe that it will be completed until the second reading, if it will be necessary, there will be an amendment and an addition to this law. But I agree that he's very late on passing a law like this, and it's high time he finally came to the constituency bench. In particular, what I want to ask you, which is what I would like to ask you, or what I would like you to explain to me a little bit more if you have read this is the article 41, which concerns the performance, or the inability of the performance at the part of the agricultural resources listed in the OPG register which is necessary for the carrying out of its agricultural activity and, if its activity is the main source of the means of life, that it cannot be implemented over that part. There are known examples of many farmers who are in huge trouble today because they took loans and today they cannot be returned for market disturbances, for various other reasons, and I think this will help a lot. It is also not possible to execute the property where the OPG holder is alive, I mean, I welcome that and I think it's very good and I hope that this is consistent with the other laws and that maybe there's even room for some more things to fix. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59199	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59200	Thank you, Mr. Felak, for asking me this question, namely, some days we've been reading that 100 opgs are now blocked, millions of kunas are at stake. In the laws so far, this issue of enforcement under the OPGs has not been regulated at all. It is good, then, that this bill of law regulates these very sensitive areas in a way that sees precisely the provisions in which the exercise cannot be carried out. So, that he can't even conduct on the property where the owner lives, when there are animals, normally he has to, these animals still feed on something and when the search is less than 20000 kn, that he doesn't go directly to the pedestal, but he has to make peace. That's good stuff. So, so far, no law has ever known, and that's why hundreds and hundreds of O.P.G.s went into direct pursuits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59201	Second replica, dear colleague Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59202	Your Honor. Coli Križanić, I welcome the adoption of this law, and I cannot look back on one law that was passed here, which was the legalisation of illegally built objects, which many in Croatia used to legalise, except for Croatian farmers. The smaller part of them managed to legalise these facilities because all these facilities needed to maintain one economy are large robust, large squares in certain areas, and they are very much needed, depending on the activity. In order for some of the activities to work, therefore, what are the possibilities of the OPGs for registration, which have a lot of illegal objects at their address, which are necessary for its OPG to function.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59203	Replicate reply, please, colleague Križanić, please report if you would like to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59204	I'll answer every time. Dear Mr. Culey, therefore, the Law on Legalization, there have already been questions in the House, a debate about this earlier. Legalization law is one thing, the OPG law is another thing. All of us positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, it is understood that we are carrying them out. The fact is that there are still a lot of objects, especially agricultural ones, especially barns, pigs, not legalized. However, in the process of opening the OPGs, the OPGs will most likely open at home, to the address. Almost all of us, now trying to answer, are thinking in the way that my colleague Panenić talked about, almost all of us certainly went into legalization of the house, I'm afraid it would be too serious that someone in the four or five years this law has been going on has not started legalizing the house and I don't see any reason why the OPGs on that house wouldn't be able to register. And other illegally built properties will certainly be treated under the existing Law on Legalisation and all of us who are legalists, and then these bonds, that is, these future new OPGs that will be established over these home numbers, will also be legalists and legalized their buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59205	3 replicas, dear colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59206	Dear colleagues, there's a saying that says this, says you have a lie, bigger lies, you have statistics. It's not at all on our colleague, maybe it's up to some level. So when she can answer some questions, she can be referred to and perhaps to our colleagues from the Ministry. Here, we have, I think half a million acres of untapped agricultural land in Croatia. How much is there? We have what we have in books, at this strategic level, those sitting around the offices, they've been hanging out there, and what's going on? I was in the field there, watching those O.P.G.s, the ones that did and didn't, from... over there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I came to a place there near this dress room over there, east, someone pulled the cash for the O.P.G. and planted two plums and slipped. Where's the surveillance on that? It's stealing the state budget. Five years minimum prison time, taking away property. And this, too, what about this land-book and catastra reform? Who's gonna come to your country, what O.P.G.s, if, according to some data, that 5% of the land books have been taken care of? How did this chaos happen in the catastrophe? And it has nothing to do with partisans, Ustashas, it's the present of that collectiveization because that model was this one, based on Stalin's model, '36. Mr.... Taking people collectively. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only the Germans were taken $11 billion worth of land, mostly... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What will be the incentive for these OPGs, for the exporters we need. We know it's an import lobby, it's killing us here. And without supervision and control of this, there's nothing. It's just stories for me and we'll sing again, there are some, it's spinning in the grave here, some are sitting here, and they sang before what they said, Stalin lived to us brothers, we'll all live as brothers, lived as Stalin's chateau, and that's the problem of the current Croatia. And those people in this party are still here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59208	Dear colleague, so you've asked a lot of questions, I don't know where he'd come from, the O.P.G., once a long time ago for the O.P.G., I didn't realize how he got the money. The OPG, the OPG Act, should create a legislative framework, so that the OPG as a structural unit has its own law. We have laws on d.o.o. We have laws on companies, about d.d. So far, we have not had a reform of land books, a reform of catastras, it's a question of all issues, we know in the north how much life lived, in the southern part of Croatia it's much worse, but it still has nothing to do with the establishment of an OPG. The OPG is based on the home number and we, with that, is not a prerequisite for setting up land-book reforms so that the OPGs can be established. The digitization of catastras and land books, we talk about it daily, sure that it will be done as soon as possible, then we will all be much happier and happier together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59209	Replica 4, dear fellow Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59210	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Križanić, I would refer to two allegations that you listed in your presentation, which is the first that the OPGs compete marketly with other companies. I'd just make one actually like this, no, I'd ask a question. What kind of OPGs are competing? The big ones who had to even get into the system anyway, which is why they're competitively competing with someone who's chosen to be, for example. d.o.o.? We have absolutely no difference in actual income to deal with agricultural activity, the only thing that has a limit, can't deal with any activity because it can't enter other activities but I don't see how it competes. And on the other hand, if we take maybe that troubled group, which are certain traders who, through the OPG under cover, produce agricultural products, sell it as OPG, we won't cover them anyway with this law because they're going to stay small. They'll report so little they don't cross that line and they can still show up at some market and sell. So I don't see who we're going to jeopardize here in some company and what makes you and HDZ think that you're actually protecting with these companies. I'd say we have to allow agricultural activity to anyone who's interested if we want to increase production. Another allegation is that all will be voluntarily invited to enroll in the OPG registry and if they do not come voluntarily, then they will have to coordinate their resources. So you're turning the thesis. Someone who's over 3,000... So that size, what's he supposed to do? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Give up agriculture, give your country to someone else, split it up, here's an answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59211	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59212	We were in the coalition together and together we started preparing this OPG Act. You were Minister of Economy, Minister Romic and you sat together in the bench and together we started preparing this law. You're asking me how they compete? The O.P.G. isn't regulated, so someone's got over 3,000... It can have up to 3,000 euros in gross income, which means it can have 300,000, it can have 30,000 euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these people put in some frame, yes, they compete they d.o.o. that have 10,000 euros, gross income. A cover for sale, we're doing the law to stick to it, not to twist it. There's always gonna be some kind of law enforcement, so there are services that deal with it. They'll be voluntarily invited, exactly. Those who will not be included in such a way will be voluntarily invited by the agency, will have to comply with this law. I don't know what's not clear about it. I'm asking you now. So you're not going to make the O.P.G. Act, if you argue, I can see that you signed up, and I'm going to be happy to ask you that. What's the alternative? So, the OPG Act, you don't think it should, all the time 20 we're saying it needs to be done. If he's ideal, he's probably not, if we're going to improve him until the second reading, sure we will, but we all have to engage together with quality criticism and not apriori say we're going to reject him, put him on an ad act and wait for some future time, maybe in 50 years. The OPG should be placed in legal frameworks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59213	Now it's your honorary colleague, Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59214	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Križanić, so in your opening part of the exhibition, you said it was time to define what an OPG is. I certainly feel like you do that this law should be passed. We are, by the way, one of the few countries that pass this law. But I don't agree and I wouldn't give this much value to this law that he's going to define what the OPG is, it's very difficult because if you ask 100 OPGs what the OPG is, each will say differently. So that's what we all agree most of the time that we need to pass the OPG Act for exactly the reason that you said that they can be competitive, but let's not forget each other's things. In addition to economic goals, we had other values in this society. This is primarily tradition, on the one hand, land which is a very important resource, which we want to process not to be abandoned, and will mainly be treated by families living there and on the other hand we need safe food. And then, in the legal provision, we're going to refute some things, so let's say it's entered in article 28 that members of the same household can only have one O.P.G. We're directly involved in a family relationship, what's that for? One man, you know, I have to tell you this story, it's true. He got sick, when he got sick, he was so sick that he prescribed a tractor for his son, when he came to himself a little bit in terms of medicine, he got well, says my son now gives me back the tractor, says father, when you really die now, then I'll order a bagger, and I'll bury it with you and the tractor, it's family relations. We force the fathers, sons to establish an OPG, to share, to go with common resources, and then the OPG bearer and you have it in Slavonia, there are cases where, say, a young man has a shortcut, he has his powers, he doesn't give his father anything or money. I mean, the law can't change family relations, and that's, say, my particular point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59215	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59216	Thank you. I agree that the definition of the OPG can be this way or that way, that we can define it in different ways. Surely if the OPG has its own law, if within certain rules the game will work it will be much easier for them on the market when I think about what you're saying, it will be easier to report to the competition and some other things. You said we needed to, talk about food safety, that we had other values. Yes, small OPGs that are below 3000 SO will work on other rules of the game than large OPGs that will be over 3000 SOs. What you're asking is that on one economy, we build a household of two or three OPGs. For what? Because with this law, we've given the full width that the widest possible family of sons-in-laws, uncles, currents, I don't know who, at all, can work on that O.P.G. without any problem, no one will be able to punish them without being able to combine what happened, and we all know in some previous times for the previous minister when the conditions for getting any credits and any opportunities and creating conflicts of interest and artificial creation of conditions have been agreed. Why would that even give us a chance to do two OPGs in one household? For what? What reason would that be? Is it because I can report to the competition? So let them report to the competition of two neighbouring households if they're going to give them legal conditions for a number of points. I think that law is very resolute, it has to be, that we're just not giving up the possibility of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59217	Let's move on, dear colleague Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Križanić, I agree with you that it is good to pass one of these whole law on the OPGs, where everything that has tormented us all, which we did not know, has been required by various laws, regulations, but we have often not come across. I'll ask you a question where you spoke of additional activities. It is good that it is all now defined here as being considered complementary activities at the OPG. However, as you said you were involved in making this law, you may be able to say more about this part. In particular, the production of agricultural and food products is done where we have here, which is considered to be the production of agricultural products from raw materials predominantly from own production with the purchase of parts of raw materials from other agricultural holdings. It's about the next one. We have a situation that if you've been in the organisational form of a craft or a company so far, you've had the opportunity to buy grapes from producers who are registered in a vineyard register, and as an OPG you didn't have that option. Whether this law now foresees that it will be made possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59219	Ma'am, it's you who's asking the question of life. I didn't quite get the question, I know what you're talking about. I'm afraid I can't answer that right now. I'm asking the secretary of state in my last address to answer that, because not to prejudge certain things that may not be true I'm really not competent enough to answer your question correctly, because the question is targeted and accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59220	The seventh replica of the esteemed colleague Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59221	Dear counterpart Križanić, the greatest value of this law and today's debate, which in this way began to debate and reflect on the family agricultural economy and the need for weight and importance of this issue. What you pointed out and some in replicas for the first time are legally regulated in this way relations within agricultural economies. What needs to be pointed out in particular is the recognition of the problems of agriculture itself and the difficulties it faces, and in that part and the prevention of the possibility of carrying out on such a family economy because we are all aware of how much such activity is related not only to physical work and relation to the country itself, but to many of the influences that this activity never puts into some sphere of security and any kind of activity can practically destroy such a family economy. Also, what needs to be particularly highlighted is the part that is regulated, which refers to these 3,000 euros within the register. So, no law and through the replicas we have spoken can suffer criticism, it can suffer any amendments that will improve it, and in any case the purpose and intention of adopting this law is quite justified and I don't think it should be at all doubted that the entire Assembly should not, all Parliaments should not support it in the sense of its ultimate objective, because it is very much evident from the very text of the law and, among other things, from your presentation, think our future in the framework of agriculture and family living in our rural areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59222	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59223	Thank you. The law is good, that's for sure. Whether he will work out within the debate is certain there are people who are well-intentioned and who will give their well-intentioned criticism and suggestions. I'm sure, not that I know, but I'm sure he'll be accepted not only by the general public but also by a broad consensus in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59224	Replica number 8. Dear colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59225	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Kola Križanić, I agree with you the law should, through this law, define the place and role of family farms on the development of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. In previous strategic documents, the Government of the Republic of Croatia said that agriculture is a strategic economic branch, however, it is not possible to adopt a strategy for the development of agriculture because it would also define the relationship of the CAP on the market with other stakeholders' companies d.o.o., d.d. And their turns and their place and their role. The result is that twenty thousand OPGs are no longer in the register, the result is that more than 100 thousand OPGs are holding an economy older than 56 years and we now define the limit of three thousand... target group of 60 thousand OPGs with this law. I've already said that the target group has to be all 165 thousand OPGs and colleagues from the field of interest and I'm asking you why you don't think the maximum amount of SO is defined why we've limited ourselves to only three thousand and this targeted 60 thousand OPG is left to the impression that they're protecting the large ones who, under privileged conditions, could have reached a huge number of hectares, so the OPG and the one with 500 or a thousand acres, along with the one that has five hectares. We don't think that's good and they're not even in that part of the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59226	Thank you, colleague Vlaović. The strategy for the development of agriculture, we both sat in the previous meeting and in this in the Committee on Agriculture, and we both asked one and the other minister to at least start preparing the strategy. One and the other said they were preparing her. Here I am now also calling on the Secretary of State to transfer the current minister to expect us to report on a future Agriculture Committee at what stage the strategy is in, is it prepared at all? And the target group, I can agree with you, and I don't necessarily need these 60s and so many thousands of OPGs, so that they can be targeted by the group and SO OPG as such, or the OPG Act as such, manages all OPGs and therefore also speaks to the OPGs over three thousand SOs and below two thousand SOs. You asked me about the maximum amount, I'm not sure I could answer that question, why the maximum amount wasn't, I was thinking about it as much as I know and we talked to the Secretary of State and the Minister and there were such questions why the maximum amount wasn't regulated. But I'm not sure about this thesis that you said would please the large OPGs again. You're so big, I can start d.o.o. or d.d. and be a farmer, whether or not there will be an OPG or d.o.o. Is the OPG as such has no great advantage over the d.o.o. That is precisely why someone who has 500 or 1,000 hectares would be exclusively enrolled in the OPG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59227	Let's move on. Dear colleague Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59228	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Križanić. It is good that this bill is going after yesterday's debate or the proposal for a law on the provision of services in tourism when we know that these two proposals of the law are closely connected and that we need to work more and more to place products from the OPG on offer in our country's tourist centres. But we wonder today if this law was to go? Yeah, he should've gone as soon as we could when we witnessed the great emigration of young people, especially from the end of Slavonia where I came from. If this law can improve at least the survival of a few young people, we will do much, and my question is whether this law or whether entrepreneurship activities are limited, given that the holder of the OPG cannot be president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59229	It's a question that's been going through a public debate, too. I've been president of a company that has hundreds of people for a long time, I don't know, I can't figure out why someone who owns the O.P.G. would have to be either the administration or the president of a company that has 500 million or a billion incomes, I don't understand. Therefore, if it wishes to be a member of the OPG, that chairman of the administration or administration may be. Also, the OPG holder may be an employee of the company, but it does not make sense that he sets up invoices for himself, that he sets out for example plowing accounts, on the one hand the OPG, on the other hand the management himself, therefore, on the third hand refuses taxes and pretaxes and in combinations of possible malversions and manipulations at all do not want to speak at this point. I think you know what I'm talking about if it was possible for them to open Pandora's box again and it would still be some kind of machinations that I really don't see any reason for. So he may be a member of the board may be a member of the OPG can't be a carrier, the carrier may be an employee of the firm but can't be the chairman of the administration, clearly as the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59230	And the last replica of my esteemed colleague, Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59231	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Križanić, this story about the fact that there can't be two holders at one address, I think it's discriminatory because if my child lives on an established housing unit at the same address, and wants to deal with some other type of production that I do, then he must have his OPG if he wants to, and not have to go to build a house on the other side. I think in this debate I'm the only one who owns the O.P.G. That there's no one here, an apology if there's anyone else. I think this law is good to pass, I think it's a skeleton that needs a lot more than enough to make it right. Unfortunately, this does not solve competitiveness. We should split the OPGs into two or three groups, so one to 30 or 50 hectares, another 50 to 100, 200 and they over 200 because it's not the same thing to do on the OPG up to 30 hectares and on the one who has 100. I'm an OPG carrier of 27 acres and I have to deal with high yields so I can survive because I have to have big machines that can technologically satisfy today's modern processing in order to have high yields, while a larger OPG of 100 ha gets almost 300 thousand kunas of support alone. And if that's all he has left, he can live very well, and I think we should think about it in this law to distinguish and stimulate these OPGs smaller than 30 or 50 ha with a better tax policy, with a reduced VAT, with a VAT cut. And another thing I'd still like to say to a student, an extraordinary student may be the holder of the O.P.G., and a regular student cannot carry an O.P.G. If someone lives in Osijek near Osijek, studies in Osijek and wants their OPG as a young student, which would be desirable to have where to learn their skills I think that he as a regular student would also make sense to have an OPG and be able to register it as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59232	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59233	Thank you very much. You were in your likely exposure when you said you needed to dismember the O.P.G.s thought you needed to factor out large O.P.G.s. We've factored these up to 3,000 and over 3,000. It's already been broken down by this bill. That's why I'm allowing the law to suffer certain supplements. What you said about the student seems purely logical to me, and I don't see any problems about whether a member of the family will have a son and a father each and every one of them, and that's for discussion. It doesn't seem logical to me because of these things that I've been saying, because there's going to be a lot more possibilities of a combination, but I'm not saying that it's not possible and realistic in certain situations. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59234	We've come to an end, so let's move on to a new debate. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59235	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. I have to go now. First you say let's defecate. Did you hear a member of the Most Independent Lists' Club say he was against this law? If someone calls us against it, I would ask that here's a colleague, Križanić, put it out to find one place where we said we were against the OPG Act. As much as we went out in public, we said we were supportive. But there are certain provisions that we believe are problematic and we offer, we point to them, we offer solutions but we see that the legislator in the work and image of Minister Tolusic, his associates or HDZ representatives do not like it. They don't like to hear someone tell them that there are certain settings here that would be problematic. It's a problem for me, we're talking about the Agricultural Land Act, the OPG Act. We don't have a minister at any debate, even at first reading. I think we really need to say once what are the key laws of the Ministry of Agriculture, which are not just perhaps the expertise that we have here, which is represented but is the political responsibility of the minister as such, because he is a member of the Government, he is the promoter, he says that such provisions that are inside will flourish our agriculture, that the family holding will be advanced. What we see only masks have fallen. It's actually going to be nice to trade societies and all the time it's the calling of family farms, that they're breaking some market relations. We personally find it unacceptable to approach it in the first place. We've heard 160,000 O.P.G.s here. We can't concentrate on just one piece, say we'll arrange you, you'll have to be like all the companies. Everything about you must be exactly as if you wanted to open d.o.o., then you shouldn't even have an O.P.G. if that's the position of HDZ and their coalition partners. Because do we really have to deal with the OPG Act? I don't think we have to. We must insist that every piece of Croatian land is processed, that this production is effective and this will be resolved whether our judiciary, whether any other laws. But it's not in one agricultural producer's jurisdiction to go through all these peri-peditious things because someone sets up the law they're looking for, you have to be that way or we won't admit you. What about those who can't please? We're gonna tell them to adjust. It reminds me of those science fiction movies when it was that you obey. So there's just no choice, which is the law. If you won't comply with the law, it is. We cited clear reasons about it, about the business skills we don't think we should, because many rehabilitation procedures exactly have through such ones I'm going to say basic, basic productions like agricultural production. Why would someone, here and I personally have an O.P.G. ask me, is not enough anymore that it is the family holding of Tomislav Panenic or anyone else, but must have an additional name. Do I have to change all the documents I'm based on just for being someone? I'd agree if someone said you could choose if that's the advantage you're going to have on this market, some recognizability you want. You may have additional tourist activity so you can simplify that expression a little bit. No, not that we didn't simplify it, but we added an additional element that must be. This business thing I realize there are problems, but we don't have to kill all those who have the will. What if someone is a co-owner of a 100 - activity company, among other things, has a agricultural activity and invests in the agricultural holding that he has inherited, the rest of his parents. It's no use for property. It invests its assets, maintains production in a rural area. No, we'll tell him, but unfortunately you can't anymore. What's his reaction going to be? They will simply close and thus we will round up the OPGs and what the position of the ruling ones is and then those who are round will become companies because they are too large, too significant, they are actually jeopardizing the market of everyone else. Why answer to all the property if you're a member of the O.P.G.? Is it really someone who has their own land, has maybe a hectare or less, lives in the same household, that country has given to someone who processes, always refers within the family. Here's your country, I have no interest in it, it processes and after that, you say, but you have to be a member of the O.P.G.'s register, and if this one of yours has a financial obligation that he can't get rid of your assets or your income from some other activity, he'll charge the same for it. You have to realize, there are countless cases like this. There are countless cases like this, where someone really only has land, saves it for maybe some time, when it will need it for some purpose. In the meantime, it gives it to one of its own, to process it, to earn income. So we should kill with this, kill simply all the charity initiatives, because it's clear to everyone, what else to take from him and some rent, and he can't survive anyway, but here's the legislator, he got involved in it, everything has to be per ps. And finally, just to get to the penalty, so all of this, we've listed, the bridge of the independent lists, has come out publicly with its views. The provisions, we stated, we didn't hear, we didn't actually hear any concrete answer to that, that the way, here's the explanation, we go out with the provision, we didn't go off to keep our position, we put it out, the secretary of state doesn't read, because it probably has a ban. So the minister wouldn't let him, that he could, that he could answer to this. We're just looking for an answer to a specific question. Not a political inquiry. And if you read the political position in those questions, then you can only read that we are in favor of the law. Because in the end, it is, and we're on our way with the initiative, but if we could, in our direction, produce the bridge of independent lists, if there hadn't been a change in the Ministry of Agriculture and finally get kicked out of the government, we certainly wouldn't have to make these remarks in front of you at all. What's controversial is, until now, some agricultural producer, if he had a certain flaw that you're alleging here, was he bad? I'm saying it's not. You claim he is and should be punished. He needs to be imposed for one part of the name, for one resource he didn't enter, for the little things that matter to you, he needs to be punished from as much as 1500 to 15000 kn. Well done. That's exactly what punishing is, to say, very important situations are appropriate. Is it true if someone hasn't written something down that it's worth 1,500 minimum or who knows how much it's going to be cut off? Is that appropriate? Does it matter? No, I don't. You have to submit to it, you have to adapt, there's exactly how we expect you to be, and I just hope that the impact assessment of this if you make it through this way will be very fast and so you won't succeed. I have to say directly because you don't impose, because you don't actually impose provisions that would raise competitiveness. I can welcome the provisions in this law that are really good. They refer to the work of members of the wider family. The minister has made a better description of the family than Minister Murganic is in her family law. And of course that's what's happening to us in reality. This is what we help and greet. So we're not against it. And about the performance, we also welcome that the family agricultural economy, can work, because so far as there is a company and bankruptcy process, it has been known that it has to work, there has been a protection of the company. Now and here, so we're equating the family economy with the company. Here, even so, what it is, is the only thing I found out from the positive contributions from the executive law and the Law on the twists of the provision, which are related to it. And I welcome that. So, we didn't say, in any word, we're against this law and what the law's about, but explain to me what it's going to be like. the family agricultural economy, when you make it this way to be a better candidate to apply to EU funds? What exactly is better about him? Because so far he couldn't have some O.P.G. checked in somewhere? I think that in all competitions from rural development measures, where the family holding was listed as an acceptable applicant, it could have been reported neatly. And I don't see any obstacle or space here that we need to change now, because this is how it was acceptable. But we could talk about it, why, for example, In some measures, agricultural economies cannot, e.g. from Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema, where the project of Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema, is so used to it, they cannot pass as in other areas of the Republic of Croatia. Because a system of points that has nothing to do with the establishment of a family agricultural holding is so designed. So let's not switch the thesis from one model to this law, but let's change it to make it easier for people, to make it easier, whether it's 160,000 of them, or whether they really need to see if they're abusers. But it certainly isn't 60,000. And I know what will happen to this, to implement these measures, to reduce the number of agricultural economies, to transfer them to companies, so that after 2.3 years, the government can say, here you see increased efficiency. Because of course the costs that small farms are dealing with, they can't compare with large systems and they simply have that deficit. Instead of helping them, we are actually transferring their property, their land, their resources, to someone who can be more efficient and it is clear that this is the case, and they are all aware, but there is neither financial power nor power, perhaps neither time in their lives adapts to it, but only to ensure sufficient income for themselves, for members of their family and to live. Therefore, we are now going to the first reading, I will only ask that both the Ministry of Agriculture and the entire ruling furniture accept that this has been a positive insistence of the Most Independent Lists to point to the real problems that can arise, not to be anger or audible that the Most is against. None of the MOST's ever said that, and it definitely doesn't stand. We just want to have a quality law that will really enable every agricultural economy by its work to earn income. So just read the content inside what is. It is defined that profit or income is realised, the OPG only generates income when the final account comes, then we know whether it was positive, negative, in which category it belongs, but let's not make it impossible for someone to realize and the smallest one and the one who has the least resources, any income from agricultural production, so that in the end it wouldn't be a big deal that this country that we've been talking about all along is not being put into operation, that eventually it starts to increase because someone who doesn't process it is likely that if you didn't process it as an OPG, if you haven't transferred to someone of your own, if it's abandoned, then we'll punish you again. You understand what we're saying? We are constantly only concerned with punishing and forming them to be the kind of legislator they want and we are not letting go of entrepreneurial freedoms, we are not allowing anyone who wants you to do anything, not just agricultural, but any other production. Therefore, given the numerous remarks we have had on this, we will make a decision on whether this law as such in its proposal has the potential to change at all. From your replica I will actually hear from myself and my colleagues whether you think anyone should be heard or this ad act, passed a law that is as such the best in the world, but I beg you then take absolute responsibility for all its effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59236	Thank you to Agent Tomislav Panenic. On his show on behalf of the club, we have seven replicas. The first replica is the esteemed colleague Križanić Josip, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59237	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad my colleague Panenić realized from your presentation today that you are not against the law although you are from all your steps so far, you said that the law is no good and everything you have been saying so far went in this direction. On the board you were restrained, now you said you'd see how you'd even discuss the law, is it even a matter that's acceptable to debate? And then you go talk about some things that you're contradictory about. The bearer must be a business capable person, so where's the problem? Well, that carrier is a responsible person, and that carrier is also responsible for his assets for the work he's doing. The OPG can have 500 million kuna revenue. So it doesn't bother you that this O.P.G. is working with both parties, so to do you 50 million kuna damage to someone, it doesn't matter, the O.P.G. is a person who's not in a business capacity, he can't be sued. I can't imagine you even discussing it that way. It's all disputed but it's not disputed when the interests and counterparties of the OPG are not protected. It's as if you didn't come from the economy, as if you weren't a minister of the economy, I can't imagine you're discussing it that way. Who, then, could be charged from such an OPG if the holder of the holding is a responsible person, a person who is not in a business capacity? How much would the O.P.G.'s go down if the economy bearers were to say you're rehabilitating, yes, great, but don't let it be the economy bearer, let it be a member of the O.P.G. that will rehabilitate in such a way that it works on the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59238	Thank you. The answer to the line, please, Mr Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59239	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Križanić, did when he imagined perhaps a Croatian defender who remained alone in his house, processes a hectare of vineyards, so he is a bounder of this law, has limited business capacity. We forbid him to do anything at all. So there's no need for a man to rehabilitate because of what the court said has a limited, knew he 50 million kuna, I don't know how you can get out of a hectare, probably sooner he'll be in a 0 or some troubled area at all, 50 million kunas won't come, but I'm just saying, don't put yourself so rigidly. Not all 50 million, there are many who are the only real ones to tell the content of our lives are found in this work, in participating in the community, to be recognized by the community, that in the end the Ministry of Agriculture knows that they exist as such, why should they be banned? Maybe you're coming from an area where there aren't, I've got countless of them, there's just people who've gotten in all of this, killed, what do we have to do now, send them all back to retirement? They want only by their work to contribute income to their family and family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59240	Thank you. Next replica, Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59241	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Panenić, you have made this very clear in your statement that it is misrepresented when we, as a legislative body, read the law, list all those things that are bad and are not good for our OPGs, criticise them and most importantly, give them solutions, explain what it is that we need to change. And then someone says we're against all law-making. So maybe it's simply a problem that people are not used to criticizing the law and giving concrete solutions to it. So let's take the most banal example. Article 49 defines fines ranging from 1500 to 15000 kuna for the infringement of the OPG holder. There is no criminal sanctions on the warning, but an automatic fine of up to 15000 kuna. And now that we say that this is not good, that it is necessary to introduce the Institute of Warning, that this OPG user must have a way to warn him before he gets the fine of 15000 kuna, then that's not good. Well, I'll give you an example, let's take a young farmer who first opens the O.P.G. and who's not familiar with all the rules, and I don't know what's missing, either. And you will charge him 15 thousand kuna. You're not healthy! Instead of coming to him and telling him, you missed it and changing it, you have a week, a month, five months, no matter how much you decide, give him the incentive to work. You'd kill him right now in the notion of 15000 kunas in prison, let's go home. Great! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59242	Replication response. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59243	Thank you, colleague Ninčević. Well, here's the economy minister I suggested amending the Inspectorate Act, market inspections which also the HDZ Representatives Club then supported where we put in place the institute just to warn, that the inspector who comes into a particular company if this is a smaller offence, so it's not crucial, it's not so important that he can issue a warning. What's more, if we say here, don't immediately approach as punishment when you can, too, if someone hasn't changed the board and you tell them you have 15 days, change that board. Is there something going on? I'm concerned that someone's coming, so they're going to say here I can't sanction you less than 1,500 kunas. How much is a board? 50, 60 kuna. No, you will impose a fine of 1,500 kuna. I'm just talking about how much it can sometimes be banal and get rid of it and make people adapt and that a lot of what's here, there's a lot of provisions, there's going to be a lot of need to adapt, but we don't leave room for them. We sanction them immediately and we will never move forward if we think only as a state all the time, as a legislator who, if you do not listen to us, you are automatically punished. And no one's asking if anyone's had a chance to hear that. We're talking about those potentially 160 thousand, I'm talking about those who are, in fact, those who are over 3000 ESOA and we're talking about those who are in the income system because they're mandatory. So any one of them fails, I believe the same penalties will be one good charge of the state budget. Or what's going to be the worst we've got prescribed, we scare people, but fortunately, we don't have an inspector to do it. That's what's happening. But here's the thing. There was one here in the debate. I won't go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59244	Thank you. Next is the replica of counterpart Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Panenic, I can agree with you when you talk about the fact that some are not used to the fact that the opposition is constructive and, of course, that the criticism we refer to the legal proposals that come to this House is with the aim of having a better bill finally. But I have to get there and say, the SDP club has proposed a whole series of laws, legislative proposals, and a good part of them has refused you know with what explanation. The Ministry is working on an identical law, we're going to pass it, send it to the procedure, and we're not accepting this one. So does it matter who wrote the law if the law is good? Well, I don't think so. We will agree for sure that this is an extremely important law and for our region from which we come to Slavonia and our OPG farmers. The Minister's gone. If you've noticed, the minister doesn't like to come to the Parliament, because you might be able to ask him some difficult questions about how he manages state property. Let me ask you, you were the minister. Could it have happened that in a state-owned company you would change the Supervisory Board or administration, and then two weeks you couldn't register it? It's sloppy, it's negligent, it's a disaster. And we're talking about a state-owned company that is strategic for the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Agriculture keeps getting us, and I dare say the wrong information. When we had the Hunting Law on the board, you remember that, we warned about those damages that prescribe compensation, so what hunting societies have to pay for. The Ministry promised us. The secretary of state then said we'd settle this with a new bill that went into e-consultation. That's not gonna happen. The agricultural development strategy has nothing. This is, I said I'm cautiously optimistic about this law. In my opinion, this has the potential to be a good law. We'll see what he'll be like in the second reading, and it's our duty to make all the suggestions here so he can really be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59246	Thank you. Replication response, fellow Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59247	Thank you very much, dear fellow Highdukovic. I'm here in this debate already, it came from the opposition hearing one proposal. Finally, here is a colleague, Križanić, who accepted this idea about the work of students. Just imagine that, all of us here agree, let's go along with a proposal, that if our students want to start their own entrepreneurial waters, regular students can start a company, can deal with the IT sector, which is really in Osijek where you come from very advanced, that they can also deal with agricultural production and that no one will say but no, no, you can't be a regular student anymore, but you have to apply here on that basis, and then you'll be extraordinary. So we're killing entrepreneurial activity in the youngest who may have the most elan, not poisoned by exactly this kind of debate where the rigid position doesn't want to accept any constructive criticism. Let's make that suggestion, we can do it together. We're all here, right? He was a colleague of Križanić's. I'm for it, you're for it and the other clubs that are present. I don't think anyone's against our youngest being able to act. Here I suggest we build a working group, lay out these laws and adopt them together. There will certainly not be a single representative. Or should we say no, if we go to suggest it, I say, but they're preparing the same proposal. So I hope that from this, if we start that they will run very quickly, and they will make that bill and we will solve at least one entrepreneurial initiative, so the form of an entrepreneurial initiative for which one part of our citizens cry out, which is students who want to study regularly and start their entrepreneurial activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59248	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59249	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenic, I agree with you. Perhaps the problem is, not only is this law, the bill makes perhaps a problem in what it does not bring. It is true that when we talk about the objective of this law, it is stated that a family agricultural economy should be defined as a recognizable and accepted organisational form of farmers carrying out economic activities. And the emphasis of this law seems to me that in this direction that the OPG defines, let's say this on the market is recognizable as a form of economic activity that is different from a society of limited responsibility or crafts. On the other hand, what bothers me, in this family proposal, the Family Law ignores this other dimension, which is this traditional form of farming, or should I say the even more picturesque existence of the Croatian village. This is what the Family Agricultural Economy Act should deal with. When I mentioned in the last line of Article 28, which says that only one member of the household can establish an OPG, it also impairs the Law on Inheritance. You know, research is not just with us, it's done in the European Union. Very few people while living for life still think about the percentages of inheritance. People hardly give up emotionally what they've been building for years. And that is the meaning of the family economy, tradition and all that has been done so far to pass on to new generations. Now, here are the questions I specifically ask you, you say you have an OPG, which is actually a motive, which would be the key motive of a farmer, a young farmer, that he chooses to establish a family holding instead of a craft or a limited liability society. In this bill of law, I don't see that crucial moment as it would be, his motivation to go towards the family agricultural economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59250	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59251	Thank you very much. My colleague Žagar, of course, that motivation, here my motivation would be much simpler if he said we are sitting here in the Croatian Parliament, I receive a solid salary for Croatian opportunities and there is no need for me to go home to the vineyard and there I am suffering and sweating and finally financially do not actually achieve any special result because... It's just too small. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what am I supposed to do? I give up there now, that vineyard should be taken out. Because I don't have anyone else who's dealing with it, there's no one who'll take it, so the easiest thing to do is get it out of the operational program. Here we go, so all these restrictions actually, and what we've been doing so far, we haven't given support to operational programmes that were in agriculture, operational programmes of milk production, fruit growing, vegetables, but we simply forgot it. All of this needs to be taken out. So you take out simply people planted into which both the Croatian state and the efforts and work of these people are invested because of the need to impose one restriction. I don't see myself needing to be limited, paying neatly all my taxes and taxes and contributions and paying pension, health off the basis of other activities. And what's the problem if we honor all obligations? If then somehow we need to be shaped again because they want us to, I don't know, I should open up then probably a trade company. I don't see why. ... I can, it's not a dispute that I can't, we close the O.P.G., we open a company. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And who's happy? Only statistics will be that perhaps less OPG so only those who are most capable and then will be the result here are our family economies in the unit of the surface are the most effective in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59252	Thank you. The next is the replica of my colleague, Dragica Roscic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59253	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Panenić, so when you started arguing on behalf of the club, I was very pleased because when we discuss family farms, it is important that someone who knows the rules from the economy is there. It's necessary because these things are being chased in the field. In Istria, right after 3 of your sentences, there are 3, 4 people around me asking if this gentleman was a minister of the economy. And I don't think we should make a mistake when we talk about the economic activity of a natural and legal person and the confusion between the PAG and the PG. PG can also be a natural person as a family agricultural economy, it can also be a craft and it can be a legal person as a firm. There's a problem here all the time. You may say now that you knew it but you didn't explain your members and everyone else doesn't know what the difference was. And it is important to point out that when you talk about answering your property, it is precisely this law that makes limits when you go, for example, to the necessary assets or to the one whose income is only being realized. If the activity is, for example, the main source of income on that land. You also said there was no minister here. I'd be very glad if the minister had time to sit with us. But on the other hand, we had another problem last year. This law in front of the HDZ was given to the past minister and could have done it himself and brought it before us. But the problem was we didn't have the law, not the minister. So we didn't have the Agricultural Economy Act, we didn't have the Family Agricultural Economy, we didn't have the Agricultural Land Act that was ready. And you know how much he brings? We had two draft laws yesterday which were the basis and which should have been adopted before programming to implement European funds. And so this law, you know very well how much it costs us not to define these things in implementing rural development measures because you've been doing it the same way I have. And you know that this is the foundation and that this is what should have taken place in such a hurry. And I don't understand, if you say the phrase "masks have fallen, this is a bargaining for companies", why do you support this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59254	Thank you, thank you. The reply to the replica, colleague Panenic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59255	Thank you very much. My colleague Rosčić, I have been talking about the OPGs all along and warned that the intensities that the Ministry of Agriculture and you support drag the OPGs into exactly what you call, not what you call a farm where it is not just a family economy but also companies and all forms under which they adopt. And here we agree, I didn't understand exactly what you wanted to say in detail, I probably turned out a little stupid in something, and if I didn't understand what the agricultural economy is, here I have to reassure you I know very well what the agricultural economy is and what the OPG is and why there's a register of agricultural economies, now it's the OPG register, and we can talk about it in detail. But I'm just saying we don't want to have that kind of discipline around the OPG that has to shape everything, that everything has to be detailed, is it not a tradition anymore, then we've set it up as a commercial entity with all the restrictions. I'd say some are even bigger than having a limited-responsibility company. So it'll be easier now for someone to close the OPG open d.o.o. And tell the members of my family by that will no longer be responsible for what obligations. Here's how it can certainly be set up, but I'm warning you right now, let's not close the OPGs and let's not drag them into agricultural holdings where I interpret it as companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59256	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59257	Dear colleagues, I have listened to you. Of course everyone in this house is in the interest of having as many OPGs as possible to employ as many people as possible. But just some specific questions, when building this law, is an analysis of the market, market availability, quality control, etc., because of course the state will seek its end. I listened to your colleague here, the Croats have a parasitic relationship with the state. The state must live on something, if you invest, you have what you invest and how much you get back. That's not clear to me yet on this study is it done, it's more a question for my colleagues than for you, you may not know that. This way, it's possible that 30 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, someone in modern Europe can copy non-particles, other particles. We've got hundreds of cases of the princes of the shivering, I get this Board of Appeals every day, etc. It's unimaginable out there, I think it might be understood by those who until recently called peasant towers, there are some sitting here, still in the jargon it exists, state land, fictitious companies, non-existent services etc. Everything we do here doesn't make any sense if there's no surveillance system, it's called checks and balances and implementation plan. I pray as God for Mr Tolusic there to introduce what he said people have real projects and to monitor every work assignment in progress. I mentioned that I was watching for some OPGs we see farmers coming, blocking the roads in Zagreb, having a tractor of 200 million euros, and not investing anything in agriculture but building a house and raising some fictitious cattle there, wild horses running there. We don't have a system yet. In the end, he would say that, for example. How do you spend our money? What about 200 million euros...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59258	Thank you. Your time is up. Reply to the replica of counterpart Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59259	Here's my esteemed colleague, Glasnović. Well, at first you opened one key question, which is what we as a state did and helped to distribute chains that would be placed on the market by OPG products and that they have absolutely open access in which they can clearly sell their products. Unfortunately, now we have to pass a special law on unfair commercial practice from what? In fact, here's why I think we're all going to support this law that it's clear, precisely because the most important reason why these little OPGs have been cheated, severed, damaged in all these machinations. So in the end when the issue was solved now about Agrokor who was the most protected in that...? The OPGs and it is good and good to pay off precisely them, because they could not survive in what companies can, which is either in the process or pre-warrant or through this law on solving the problem of Agrokor which has been adopted. So that's where we have to concentrate. The fact that the OPG will be more or less established does not mean that it will be market-efficient. Yesterday I made the same remarks to the 2018 Budget Law where around national wholesalers, the whole system of national and regional wholesalers is not functional, does not ensure that small OPGs can appear in a carefree manner. We see a whole series of restrictions that they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59260	Thank you, too. And the last replica of counterpart Ivan Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As far as everyone knows there is no provision that prescribes that all OPG facilities must be legalised. However, in the light of the provision relating to the performance of a specific complementary activity, we indicate that such a provision is also valid according to the rules applicable so far to supplementary activities at the OPG. It would not be okay and competitiveness would be violated if it would allow an OPG to operate in an illegal and non-conditional facility that activity for which space, equipment and resources are required to carry out and economic activities and agriculture must meet the minimum technical conditions and other conditions relating to the performance of that activity. The law says that only certain economic activities of agriculture can be carried out in the residential or working premises at the disposal of the OPG. However, the general conditions of legalisation of objects are based on national legislation resulting from the area of construction and cannot be exempt from their application by the Law on the OPG of a particular person or group of entrepreneurs. Of course, you said here at one point that this law is the smartest and the best or it is, or it isn't. Of course it's not the best, nor the smartest, but it's certainly one step because I believe that a bar was made and prepared for this first reading in line with the profession and the terrain, and that's the most important thing in this first step we need a waist and a field. Your exposure was solid, but I'll agree to moments a little bit and contradictory given your experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59262	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59263	Dear colleague, a little bit different in terms. So if you want to be in the facility where you live, where your facilities are to enroll, to enroll that object as a resource, and you're required because your seat is the only seat. This facility has to be solved, and now as it will be solved if it isn't, I think it will but enter if it isn't legalised if there isn't a resolved property-legislative relationship you can't enter, you don't have a seat, you can't be an O.P.G. I think here, I explained as briefly as it looks. Therefore, let us not insist that someone who has a place of residence, if the Ministry of the Interior has recognised residence in that address that the Ministry of Agriculture does not allow him to engage in agricultural activities. I mean, it's a little bit of that. There are minimum technical conditions around this for complementary activities, however, the facility in which the activity is carried out in the way this complex seas pass certain periodic checks from time to time. Because if the inspector is coming, then you have to have a checkup. If you have an electrical installation you need everything that was enough for one family economy, everything needs to be changed in order for the inspector to determine that it meets all standards. So, let's change. Installations must be entered. We agree it's a promotion, but consider how many farms we have that don't have. Most of these. So they all have to get into a lot of investments. So far, they've been living with it, sort of dealing with it. What do we do now? All of them make that, you have to. Or, for example, you left aside a certain amount of barley or something to feed the cattle and then the inspector says no, no, that. From now on, you must have a storage space. In order for you to be able to please it. I'm talking, so not about the minimum technical conditions, but about the conditions for carrying out the economic activity that someone will oversee for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59264	Thank you. We're going on with the representatives' clubs. Next is counterpart Branko Hrg in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59265	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The adoption of the OPG Act is definitely necessary and simply the only thing that we can say to ourselves as the biggest criticism where we have ever been that the OPG Law has not been passed in time, because it has been adopted in time is that today the situation in Croatian agriculture would be significantly different also in that part of the availability of state agricultural land, of course by the production itself that would be maintained and organised in family farms. For these reasons, primarily the Croatian Democratic Party club, the Croatian Social Liberal Party supports the adoption of this law. Of course, as already said here in the debates and replicas so far that this is the first time such a law is passed, that this law will certainly need some improvement in the course of its implementation, but this is all normal and a step towards the adoption of this law is certainly good. I hear debates here today and, of course, when we talk about agriculture, about the village, about the OPGs, it always causes a certain debate in the Croatian Parliament which often goes a little bit into quite some other interesting spheres for purely some political reasons. But I will say here not to commend the current composition of the Ministry of Agriculture, but to merely state the fact. Within about six months of this composition of the Ministry of Agriculture, there was a Law on Family Agricultural Economics at the benches in the Croatian Parliament. So that's what I've been talking about for six months. There's nothing to complain about in that part. The law was made, he's here. It seems to me that he will end up being accepted with a large, large majority of hands in the Croatian Parliament and I am glad that most clubs are actually declared positively about the bill itself with some remarks, but also about the need to be brought by no one has said anything else but that it should. Now. In this part of the OPGs we're talking about, it's hard to define it all by law, of course. But the situation in the country, especially in the family farms, of course it's very bad and it has a lot of problems. On the other hand, there are also excellent examples of young farmers and those of a mature age who work well. I think we're going to have to deal with it a little bit, and it's primarily going back to the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Finance with those OPGs that are in previous times, in previous years, in that part of motivation to go into development, they're getting into difficulties and today they're on the verge of surviving with big debts and burdens, and with programs that have the potential to develop. It means they have the potential of the right commercial OPG. and there will be definitely a bit stronger to cut, to see what to do with such OPGs, whether to allow them some legal proposal or some decision that these loans, these debts, are reprogrammed for longer periods not only by those who have raised loans through HBOR but also by those who have raised loans through commercial banks, of course, along with cost assessments that will say that this economy has potential and that it can be drawn out and that even to the extent that maybe a part of the write-off of that debt should be considered in order for those economies to continue their work and their business. The target group, a lot of talk about it here, but definitely, the OPGs should be seen as the cornerstone of the development of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia rather than as a social category, and there has been a mistake all these years. Everything and everything got mixed up. And that's why, of course, it's been used in a variety of ways, and today we have what we have, part of it and part of it. And absolutely all the incentives, everything that can be given should be directed absolutely towards economies that have the potential to grow, which have the potential to develop agricultural production and that have that development component. The other part, the additional activities, is something small and defined in the extreme case, and I don't think there's much to worry about, but it needs to be done all the time to stimulate it, and that these same economies survive, remain, but the primary goal must be those that deal exclusively with this agricultural production. What I personally little bit burns here, I couldn't spot anywhere, notice, so maybe that's one of the suggestions of the Ministry of Agriculture, we might be able to get an answer from the present representatives. It would seem to me to be a little bit more defined, to do in terms of the association of these people, the association of the OPGs, the creation of some groups that could perform stronger and better on the market, which could be set in line with the trade chains, here we are today to discuss the Law on unfair commercial practice. This is the same part of the problem that happens all the time and I think that such association should primarily be directed towards the OPGs and allowed if possible even by law to predict so that there is a possibility that these OPGs can be joined together and that they are particularly stimulated and that, as such, they appear on the market. In my view, the work of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is also very important. And I'm going to say here now that I'm not very happy with the fact that in the 2019 and 2020 budget projections, it seems to me that it's not quite clear how the Croatian agricultural chamber will function. No specific amount has been defined to enable the operation of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, which is an institution that should unite and represent the interests of the CAPs. What I also want to point out is the fact that we should reduce the administration, simply reduce those papers that we impose on our legal solutions on people. I agree with those who think so, and I think there's no one here who wouldn't say the same thing if our society were being imbedded and that we really tie our hands to people in that work, that people are very hard to cope with. As long as this is possible in any part of the law proposal until the second reading, here is a suggestion from the Ministry of Agriculture to try to consider and reduce the administration that the OPGs should do, it should be simplified. It is, of course, the part that was just spoken about fines and everything but every law has criminal provisions and they are always present, perhaps in those criminal provisions it would be important to categorize those OPGs so that it is known that some OPGs that have low income can not pay the same penalty for a violation that will pay some large OPG that has large incomes. And what I am personally less interested in in this work and what I think about and what I have often heard from people who own the OPG. I don't think anyone with 500 acres of land is an O.P.G.'s upper limit. Let's keep it company. I definitely don't think that's it anymore. It's not the part where the O.P.G. deals with people who live there and let them expand their family with some seasonal employment. The O.P.G. is saving life on the ground. The OPG is not a firm where tractors and machines come, processing 100 acres, 200, 300 acres of land and going 50 kilometers away where someone lives. OPG is life in the country, family. And as such, I look at it and I think that there should be some more of these models and definitely define that upper limit, not perhaps on the revenue side, because then it can really be a different person's business, but the country is the basis on which the agricultural activity is carried out, without the country there is no agriculture, I think that the limits of quantitative land should be determined in the definition of OPG, if we want the OPGs. It's like I think it's okay with who doesn't. But what I would also like to point out, here, of course, the law mentions the Agency for Payments in Agriculture which performs the tasks, I think it is too under-emphasised an advisory service, and it is extremely tied to the OPGs and the OPGs next to it. And perhaps there should be considered that the advisory service is even defined by this law as the accompanying service of the OPG, where advisers would by name and last name run the OPGs by name and last name and follow its results and be stimulated at the end with a salary supplement if necessary for the good results of the OPG. At that time, we would better round up that whole block and probably stimulate a slightly stronger and more intense growth of the OPG. But I repeat in that section and the roles of the advisory service is part of the answer to the question of how to associate these people, what help them, and how to help them. They can be helped by including local self-government and local and regional self-government, by establishing whether any incubators, agrocenters of anything else where the OPGs are provided with logistical support, where they are helped to organise production and where they are primarily helped to sell and then we could talk about that so many times-said thought of green and blue Croatia. In this way, by establishing such centres both in Dalmatia and in the continental part of Croatia, by connecting these institutions to each other, they could create conditions for our hotels in the Adriatic to find a product produced in the continental part of Croatia from Slavonia to central Croatia. That's when they'd achieve their full goal. This law is definitely on track, it should be supported, it should be monitored, of course its application, see its effects, look for errors in it, offer improvements but primarily all in order and for the sake of those people who will protect life in the country, life in all of Croatia and who will produce domestic food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59266	Thank you. We have seven replicas at the presentation of the Croatian representative. The first replica is from my colleague, Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59267	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hrg, if we hadn't made so many failures in our beautiful country in the past 25 years, we'd probably have fantastic good agriculture today. Right where we should've given the most of our options and looked back because we knew how to do it best and we were good at agriculture, but here's 25 years, I agree with what you said just before, where you've been so far. I would agree the same way, we all see failures now, I hope this law is much more willful than it was before, if we had brought it in earlier, we'd probably have better farmers. In my opinion, I agree with you that small OPGs need an administration as much as possible to reduce and simplify that these people can certainly be easier to open and finally show their profits which I do not agree that three thousand kuna if they achieve three thousand euros you have to pay taxes, it needs to be increased a little bit more. We mustn't be afraid of rich farmers. Unfortunately, we don't have rich farmers, we have rich individuals who in agriculture were actually people who were alike, who, in my opinion, got some things they shouldn't have. It is certainly necessary to join together to look at the OPGs and watch and do either cooperatives or something else and to put conditions on all trade chains that a certain percentage of our products must be sold in their stores at least 50%. I think this is a good thing, but some other things might change in this law, certainly, to the possibilities, so that they can't punish farmers, but to give the first warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59268	Thank you. Replication response, here's your colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59269	So he believes that as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to start from that, as far as the inspections and everything else are concerned, and by those announcements and the intensities he has now and the government that he's not going to immediately punish that he's going to warn first because something like this is planned and planned. But you said it's too little to invest in agriculture in the last 25 years. Look, it's amazing that we as a state with so much budget money aimed at agriculture managed to destroy agricultural production. It's a phenomenon. That's a fact. There are two moments, the incentives of social support and state agricultural land. That's where it practically all fell down. That's where the evil that we all live together today was done, and that's the fact. And there's no alimony for anyone, for anyone. But it's really amazing, with the huge money, we managed to destroy agricultural production. It's something I guess some phenomenon would be, that should be explored that way. And that's our problem, which was, absolutely, that the OPG had been treated like this before, that it had its status, that it had its advantages, that it had been going towards it as a guardian of life. Then it wouldn't have come to this. Unfortunately, it's here. Today, all together, we all feel it on our backs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59270	Thank you. Next is the replica, dear colleague Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59271	Dear colleague Hrg, in one part of your debate, you said that during the debate so far, individuals have gone to other spheres, which I disagree with what you said, but I would direct the tone from your discussion to those points that should bring us together. And he agreed with what you said, that there is definitely a need to reduce the administration, which is actually the key to all the debates so far, which should go in the direction of expectations that there will be an improvement in the text of the final bill and, above all, because we in Croatia have too much state agricultural land that is not in office. That we need the primary goal, to put all the land into operation. I believe you've made a good point, but it's a matter of state and strategic policy decisions, that we should connect blue and green Croatia and that entrepreneurs should really be given the opportunity to grow and develop, and that we can only do it in a way, first of all, what you said, which I will repeat and what is the key to removing the administrative barriers, and also remove some illogical ones, which are mentioned in this bill. The position is now and especially for the ministry representatives, not only to listen, but it is much more important to hear what we are all saying from the opposition, because everyone has said that this bill is better than it is existing, which is valid, that we are taking a step forward and if they hear what we are saying, then we can make one turn and raise the political standard in this High Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59272	Thank you. Replica response, replica reply, colleague of the Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59273	Thank you very much. Well, I mean, we often have very similar thoughts, like this one, but I'm going to go back a little bit more to this part, those sentences, that connection, we're really such a small country, and so we're divided, and especially in this part. So, really, if the state were to connect as a state, which now defines, therefore, the OPG. If local and regional self-government were involved in this, if it were to go to the accompanying services that should follow all of this together, unite and improve this production, then that goal could be achieved. Then we could really achieve the goal. Very simple in principle, very simple. If you create this agro centre, agro incubator, distribution center, I don't know, whatever you want to call it, somewhere in this northern part of Croatia, where the OPGs are producers and, say, in Istria, where you come from, where we know you should, for prosciuttos, little bigger pigs, 200 kilos etc. who feed on domestic food in that part. And if there's such a single center out there and there's one here, those two centers are cooperating. They're making a deal. They're making deals for these people. And we immediately stopped these administrative barriers, everything else, and made it possible for people to deal with what they know how to do, to produce and deal with it. And we get a good product. And then we can go on like that. It can be done. Maybe that's where a pilot project should be done. But anyway, I think it should go that way. And the OPG is the basis in principle of that. The joint OPGs are a group that can provide one quality and in sufficient quantity of product.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59274	Thank you. Next replica, counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59275	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Here, I would refer to your position on the association of the OPG, I hope only that you understand, that in fact the association of always small producers is aimed at protecting against the influence of large capital. If family farms go together, they can come together in two ways. One is going to launch a joint project, invest some of their resources, the type to establish a cooperative, which would work in a particular area, where each one is too small, and will jointly invest the funds. However, according to this bill, it will not be possible. I cannot share my resources, I cannot single out 1 hectare of my country and put it in cooperative because it is explicitly stated that it cannot be in 2 agricultural economies. So I just can't have it there and here. The second is, so who protects the interests, you yourself stated, here we will now have a debate on the Croatian agricultural chamber, the merger is scheduled to go through producer organisations, where their interests and economic interests should be represented. At the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, the key change you saw yourself in the proposal, the budget, is not that something is unclear, but it is clear that a new imposition is being introduced. An imposition will be introduced from which membership fees will be paid so that the Agricultural Chamber can function and this is clear from the draft budget itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59276	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59277	Comrade Panenić, we didn't get along very well in one part. I would never advocate a merger in some groups, they gave these cooperatives, they gave some other kind of association, in a way that a peasant should give his country there. No, I'm against that kind of association all the time. I'm talking about functional integration and organised production on every O.P.G., on his land, not that he's giving the country into some kind of cooperative. This model used to be, and it's what people do most today because it's what's left in their head that someone's been taking away the land that went to the cooperative. Then that country went where and where to go. And in that part, it's not well thought out. So you may have misunderstood me here. I'm thinking purely of functionally connecting production, and certainly not in touching anyone's property. The property is, she remains the property of the O.P.G., and I'm like an O.P.G. if I'm an O.P.G. I decide to team up with you, with someone else. Someone organizes and coordinates everything together, and I create a product, that's the point of things. So in that part, we clear things up so there wouldn't be anything in the air because I say people would certainly never accept it and they should never be forced to do it. If that's what people want they'll find a model, so they'll figure it out for themselves. But in any case, I repeat the adoption of the OPG Act is a good thing. The members of the OPG, the OPGs I talked to, I asked people, they say it's good, it's a step forward. We'll see how it'll be realized, but in any case, I'm positive about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59278	Thank you. The next is a replica of counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We can agree in some parts, this is, by passing the law itself we can welcome as one step forward even though I said I want to be cautiously optimistic. But what will be bad if we stay at this step. Therefore, a whole series of laws and regulations need to be amended so that we can actually consume all the good things that this law adopts, so the Agriculture Act, the Agricultural Land Act, ultimately and the strategy that we should adopt on the development of agriculture. So everything has to be called to this law, the provisions in this law, and that is why it is extremely important for us to have a better proposal in the second reading. What I wanted to say was that sometimes I don't like it, and that's what my colleague Panenić was talking about, and you, too, would like to stress that we sometimes get a little too normal and that we know how to choke the entrepreneurial spirit. So we can't all, especially the family agricultural economy like some colleagues said. We can't bring him down and put him in one drawer. Each family holding is specific in its own way. Some deal with agriculture, some combine agriculture with hospitality, tourism, etc. etc. So, some basic skeletons we need to set up, we need to put them first of all so that we can help our OPGs, but we can't get caught in a trap of overnomation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59280	Replication response, colleague Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59281	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hajdukovic, we agree in principle and all of us in some way when we pass every law we adopt. We have some optimism, we always have some caution, it's such a normal thing because no law is like that that would come to all right. Most of it happens, even the other way around, unfortunately, it's different. However, in any case it is necessary to reduce the administration, it is necessary to simplify the administration not only in this part of the OPG registration and production monitoring and everything else. Even in this part of the application for rural development programmes, for God's sake, and we have to simplify the administration, we've been overcomplicated, complicated so that it's literally very difficult to achieve something, and that's why we're going so slowly, that's why it's happening to us, that's why things don't go at a certain rate, but that's why I'm speaking in that part of the accompanying services and advisory services, and this part of the organization, the association, where actually that logistics would help those who are at the OPG to do the primary work that is their job, which is production. This is primarily production, and it is up to us to provide other legal proposals that there are recently plenty of agricultural resources. I am convinced that we will come up with this final strategy, some framework and then take this second step after this first step that will be where and where some momentum towards domestic improved food production.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59282	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59283	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrg, I really thought at the very first moment I heard that the Law on Family Agricultural Economics was being prepared to determine this maximum land ceiling that a family holding could have in order to make sense that it was a family agricultural economy. It is true that in the EU, 97% of agricultural economies are family farms almost all of them. And 69% of them actually cover almost 70% of the EU's agricultural land, and when we talk about large then and there's little surprise that the largest economy, meaning those that are more than 100 hectares, and that's where the family's farms are preceded by 60% of those largest. Now what's the key here? The Republic of Croatia must install its specificities into this law. In the EU, for example, the average is 10 ha of the family's size economy. We see this intro section as much less an average, and now we have to decide which direction we're going to go, if we're really going to go towards increasing the amount of land and increasing agricultural economies, but then it could necessarily mean that fewer people will be able to live from agriculture and to agriculture. And our village, our rural space dies. And now there's a key or a challenge. As for the administration with you, I couldn't agree more. Administrative barriers should be removed, but there is another type of obstacle, these are technical obstacles. When we went into the EU accession process, we signed and copied various directives. So let's say it can happen, and this law predicts that the space that the OPG must have for its activity must have certain technical conditions. So someone prescribed from the directive that a potato warehouse must have a fire valve that costs several thousand kunas. It's not even that she's expensive, it's that she's pointless out there. And that's the same thing we're going to do, or we're going to have to have an atest fan, we're going to have to have one. And it will put extra costs in front of farmers that are even unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59284	Thank you, Representative Sagar, for replying to the replica of my colleague Hrg, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59285	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, I was preparing this debate to do a little research on some papers, so since I was a long time ago at HSS, there was a very common topic in previous years of village and agriculture. And one of the topics there in 2014 was the family agricultural economy. I pulled out these papers, and then a team led by Mr. Josip Kraljičković worked on the program, I pulled these papers out of 2014 and found a lot of things like thinking in this OPG bill proposal. They are not restrictions, there were restrictions here, etc., but in principle already at that time, in these discussions we kind of based on these OPGs that have the potential of growth and practical orientations maximum towards them in order to develop agricultural production, food production. And also reducing the administration, allowing survival to those who have fallen into difficulty. Often, often in a way stated by state policy. Let's remember those... , various programs, buying machines, stimulating and capital investments, everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So people fell into traps, they're doing curved physibilities of studies on unrealistic indicators, and now these people have problems. So we'd have to see how to help them, how to solve these things in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59286	Thank you. The next replica is representative Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59287	Dear President, Vice-President of the Parliament, respected representatives of the ministry. Dear Representative Hrg, food production in Croatia is of course a strategic interest, it is an important economic issue. Import cca. 70% of agricultural products. OPG is the basis of agricultural production in Croatia. You mentioned that it should move towards the model of association of the OPG for joint production, i.e. functional integration, perhaps use of the same machines, resources of the same and market entry. I am interested in what you think and what you think about it and the right of foreign EU citizens to set up an OPG in Croatia and when.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59288	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59289	Dear colleague Kirin, I see the OPG as a place of life with an application at that address, on that grant. So if someone, a foreign citizen, comes by, I guess you should become a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, live here and produce. I couldn't possibly advocate a model by which the country could buy people I don't know from any part of the world. I don't have anything against anyone but the earth doesn't multiply then it just has its limitations. And absolutely in my personal court OPG as such means family agricultural economy, place of life. And that's why it's important that you said the OPG yourself, it should be the basis for agricultural production because it's as strategic and as the basis for the preservation of life in rural parts of Croatia. That's a lot of times in this assembly. Unfortunately, never after that anything in that direction should be done. We hope that by putting the OPG into legal frameworks now, by getting the OPG law, something like that will start happening and that this OPG will be the real foundation of food production tomorrow and I repeat the preservation of life in the country's family, where it is produced, it lives. That's why he's different from the companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59290	Thank you. And the last replica of colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to share some thoughts with you by listening to your debate. Is it better to have an unsettled area like we now have and watch as the Croatian village dies, how some traditional way of living of the Croatian village dies, or better to try to regulate it by law, so if in some future times and repairs the law, create a prerequisite for this village to be revitalised. That's what is definitely asking a question after these discussions. Because we obviously don't want to discuss being a thing, we want to discuss being a problem and we don't want to discuss rights, in fact, the fact that the Croatian village is empty rather than arguing whether it should be better one way or another. The organisational form is irrelevant. But let's pass a law like this, and then we have to ask one elemental question to which this Croatian peasant can sell his product at the moment. That's the key question. That's what led to dying. Here, now is the time of the cabin, take now the town of Velika Gorica, has around it 30-ac and more, 40 villages, with these 3 municipalities and 50-ac, you can practically find it very difficult to find the pig and pig you would slaughter. And the end that was once known for its pigsty. We want to go to Slavonia, at what price do these peasants sell pigs? Do we, in parallel with this law, need to create infrastructure so that they can sell that product? And I think that we should discuss today that whoever is proposing the law is the Ministry of Agriculture we help, not the minister as soon as he touches someone's interests, we all attack. Why? Because he's from the ruling majority and he needs to be attacked. And we do not see that the consequence of something is that it wants to create a prerequisite for some traditional Croatian things to come back to life. I think that's the way we should talk. If we talk that way, then we can make this law a consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59292	Thank you very much, fellow Shuker. A reply to the replica of my colleague, Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59293	Thank you very much, our thinking in that part seems to be the same, at present 13 kunas are a fat pig, so much now being sold, at least in this area where I live children are somewhere 15 if it's a bigger purchase, if something is individual then there's something small, kuna, two more expensive. Absolutely, in my debate, that is why I was talking about the adoption of this Law on OPGs is actually the basis and, as counterpart Hajdukovic said, a small step towards that other right step, which is a merger for the placement. So this is where he provides himself and tries to solve the issue of life in the country and production in the family economy. On the other hand, institutions and state institutions and local self-government, together should oppose all forces to allow people to sell their product quality and end up in their finals at the best somewhere in Croatian tourism. It would always be so best even though it's always talked about and very little has been done about it. Although it used to be a perfectly normal thing to happen like that. That is why these bureaucratic obstacles should be reduced. Therefore, it should be possible to simply produce and then to deal with things, to stimulate people to get into production, to stimulate young people because you have excellent examples where young people get into that kind of work today. But agriculture came unfortunately to the low branches because what you know to be a peasant is the worst possible, it was often a shame. We taught the kids that if they didn't learn they'd have to work... It's all coming back now, everything's coming up now. And that's why it's important to send quality messages from here, positive character going that way. And I welcome that the ministry has proposed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59294	Thank you, Mr. Horg. That's what we're done with the replicas on your exposure. We continue with the Proposal for a Family Agricultural Economy Act, first reading on behalf of the PGS Club, Mr. Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59296	Honored Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In all the discussions on behalf of IDS, PGS and RI so far, I have stressed that there are indeterminates in this proposal for a family farm law, and there is indivisibility to assess the good that this act goes in two readings, which is why we have more than enough time for all of us to contribute to its improvement together. From the point of view of our Club, this bill is definitely better than the existing one because it introduces several newspapers that simplify the work of the OPGs, and this specifically refers to its parts that regulate the occasional work and work of family members in the OPG. Furthermore, we consider this bill a good first step, a step that will allow family farms to differ from other economic operators and help regulate the markets for agricultural and food products. On behalf of the Club as I did just before at the very beginning and said I want to point out a few inconsistencies and discrepancies that we can find in this bill. This applies first and foremost to Article 18, which provides that the provisions of the law governing companies and which apply accordingly to the company are also applicable to the company of the EAGF. The article goes after the registration and marking of the OPG to be equal with the company, which would also introduce tax payments on the company. In addition, the OPGs will have to change their names, and according to this, and what they wear are tables, stamps, different documents, which is certainly another unnecessary additional imposition for OPG owners. Furthermore, Article 22 is replaced by the following: The law defines that two or more natural persons who are family-related and do not live in the same family household in order to carry out the economic activity of agriculture more effectively can establish common OPGs. This article better defines cases that can happen in practice. It is that so far family members who do not live in the same address could not be members of the same OPG, so it is a positive newspaper that will correct an irregular position in which members of families who did not live in the same address and worked in the same OPG. However, what I would like to point out in this debate is that in the mentioned article 22, it is missed to define another common phenomenon in real life. Namely, many OPGs were founded by family-related persons living in the same household, but they are due to changes in their lives, for example. whether they moved to another address due to marriage, are no longer members of the same household, but continue to work on the economy, continue to be members of the economy with all rights and obligations. This law should allow those persons to be able to become their own. The address changes to the agency without losing the status of a member of the household that defines some very important rights and obligations, e.g. the death of the OPG holder, and therefore the rights and obligations of the members. As regards the non-determination of the law, it is not apparent how the sale of own products is treated through a catering offer at the OPG, which is essentially designed to sell the agricultural product on its own holding directly on the table, which allows us to obtain a fresh food that is under control. Any further records of those existing unnecessary administrations in the process and should be removed from the law if we really believe in the term of abolishing administrative barriers, which the government said was high on the list of priorities. Therefore, our proposal is that the OPG, which is engaged in and the catering offer as an additional activity, is entered in the Food Transport Register of the Ministry of Health and is not obliged to keep records of its own foods under Article 27(4) and (5) of the Law. Another problem is seen in the list of additional activities that the OPG can carry out if it is an integral part of the law. The list of complementary activities states that the production of agricultural and food products at the OPG may be carried out from mainly own production with the purchase of parts of raw materials from other agricultural holdings in accordance with specific rules on food. This definition is definitely a limiting factor for all those successful OPGs that currently place their products on whether throughout the Republic of Croatia, whether around the world and which most of the production is made by buying out small local OPGs. There are examples of successful OPGs that, thanks to quality products, have reached the level of production thanks to good branding in which most of them belong to the purchase of other local OPGs. This helps the local community, but it also solves market surpluses that would inevitably occur. I believe that the proponent is not in the interest of the successful OPGs being reduced to production and purchase, thus creating market surpluses which are impossible to place on the market, and therefore we ask that this restrictive provision be deleted from the final draft of the law. I would conclude that the law that is before us today has good provisions that, as I said at the beginning, simplify the work of the OPGs, there is a lot of room for finishing, especially inconsistencies, inconsistencies with the other regulations that I have discussed and talked about. This is too focused on the already mentioned excessive administration, the introduction of unnecessary new costs. All this is not going towards improving conditions for our farmers and what should be the primary objective of this law. Definitely entrepreneurs should be left with the possibility of growth and development, and these administrative barriers will not certainly improve our rating on the list doing business. That is why the IDS, PGS and RI are calling for those comments to be taken into account when drawing up the final bill, because I believe that, ultimately, it is our goal to adopt a meaningful, whole law, a law that will support the OPGs and which will be the basis for new measures that will help to develop this very important form of agricultural activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59297	Thank you very much, fellow Giovanni Sponzi in front of IDS, PGS and RI clubs. We have two replicas on his exhibit. The first replica is from an esteemed colleague, Kleman Anton. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59298	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, Sponza, I fully agree with this remark on the bill's novel, or a proposal for a novelty in law regarding part-time purchase of raw materials for the OPGs, and I'm going to say now a very life-long example. Recently in Tinjan, we had a big prosciutto fair, one of the biggest fairs in this part of Europe, where our hardworking farmers, among others, and the OPGs proudly showed their products. What we know is that in Istria there is one large, therefore the lack of product of this type, so prosciutto and in the vast majority of cases our OPGs from Istria buy raw materials elsewhere. So also in Slavonia, and in Međimurje and I don't know in some other parts of Croatia. So, I would say it is the dominant raw material that is supplied on the OPGs all over Istria, and a top product is created that is not only recognized in Istria but throughout Europe, and I would say slowly in the world. Therefore, there should indeed be a legislator to consider putting this provision in the context of understanding the needs of the CAPs and farmers on the ground. So, in any case, it should be seen not to be a formulation too difficult or in a smaller part, but to look at the wider problem. Here's your support on this remark.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59299	The reply to the replica, dear colleague here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59300	Here's an esteemed and esteemed colleague, and above all, I thank you for your contribution and your replica. Given that in the Republic of Croatia, those who have strong and established OPGs are located in the area of Istria and Baranja, so we understand very well what we are talking about. Based on your prosciutto to combine one ideal combination, I would then set an example and a winemaker or an olive oil manufacturer. For example, a winemaker who withdraws in the tourist season several thousand customers in his shop on his family's economy at the moment cannot put quality olive oil on his shelf, and for which tourists have interest. For example, this can be what really is the life situation that the winemaker and the oliver are neighbors. Therefore, instead of being complementary offers, which would simply enrich our offer and that we can brand and place quality products by which we influence, not only do we strengthen the OPGs but we also influence the national economy. So in my debate, here I thank you through this replica and I believe that those who listen to us from the Ministry want to hear about what we're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59301	Here's some Istrian solidarity. We're continuing with our colleague, Sagar Tomislav, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59302	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Sponza. Well, here's hoping you'll support this proposal of mine, he's being listened to here by the representatives of the ministry, and what you've suggested is what I think is very good. I'm in the soul of Istrian, so I can tell you that. In fact, it will be important to you because this legislative proposal should allow for the possibility of replacing agricultural land between the two OPGs. When it goes for the purpose of arrondation or rounding up agricultural land, even in such a way as to free the payment of taxes. In Istria it would be much more significant than in Slavonia I mean in terms of value. And the other thing, even a brother and a sister if they donate to the owner of the O.P.G. land, and they have to pay taxes. In this respect, the proposer could foresee that such donations should be freed from tax payments precisely for the purpose of increasing these agricultural areas because what is ultimately intended to achieve is competitiveness, and competitiveness can be achieved that the OPGs have larger areas on which they can then produce significant quantities. And now to say, I have time, why... I've been trained to believe that Slavonia must be a region like you think Istria should be a region.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59303	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59304	Well, first of all, I want to refer to what my colleague said he thinks Istria should be a region, thank you for that, and it's a good thing we have a chance to hear in this House of Commons. I will repeat what I said earlier, and we in Croatia have too much unprocessed state-owned agricultural land that is not in operation and that is tragic. In his discussion of some of the causes, a colleague of the Hrgs with whom I agree, I think he detected the problem well. We have unfortunately turned the culture of work into a culture of unhappiness and this is one process where we have to change people's overall consciousness in a way that we should all at last start in Croatia, not just think about incentives and some kind of stimulation that doesn't justify the money and the means for which they got it. When we talked in all the debates so far, and especially we from the club did, the restrictions are not good, the OPGs are important for the development of agriculture. It is used to be a colleague of Shuker who are the key elements, if we realize that the removal, the abolition of administration, the promotion of entrepreneurship has an absolute impact on settlement, we also have an impact on demographics. This law is important through a number of multiplicity effects and therefore I am glad that the debate that has been taking place so far goes in a positive tone, goes into the tone that everyone confirms that this law is good, congratulating the ministry to deal with this problem, but the key will be when we get to the table the final bill whether what we discussed is someone's heard, respected and respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59305	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next is SDP club and counterpart Hajdukovic Domagoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We've already said a lot about the law, and I'm going to try to be precise and not repeat myself too much. But allow me at the beginning of several general remarks about the state of Croatian agriculture that is not the brightest. If we are talking purely about the OPG sector, then we must be aware, and this is already mentioned in the debate that there are currently slightly less than 166,000 registered OPGs in Croatia. The average so far is that each year that number is reduced by about 12,000, so there's obviously a problem. How do you solve it, and is this law a solution to that problem? Well, I've said it several times today, and I'll repeat, I'm cautiously optimistic, so this could be a good bill that could solve a whole set of problems, but I hope that the Proposer will have a hearing for all the criticisms and suggestions that have been made here and that in the second reading, we'll have a really good bill of law. What I would especially praise the ministry for not turning out to be the only one who criticises but who is not afraid and commends what is good is that when the ministry has drawn up this law, it has really consulted a very, very wide public opinion, first of all I am talking about farmers and OPGs and almost all the remarks have been respected. So we have a proposal before us on which the public is consulted to which this bill will apply and I am pleased that almost all objections have been included from the OPG farmers' associations. I think it's a good way to make all the legal proposals, especially one such legal proposal that is extremely important for Croatian agriculture. What I am sorry for, which I was saying before, is that the minister is not here to hear the praises, but also to hear the criticisms and to get some answers we have been looking for for for a long time, that the secretary of state is not offended that are coming before the ministry, but the minister is the most responsible in that portfolio, and I think this House deserves answers to some questions, too. But we return to the Law on the CAPs, so I am glad that the comments proposed by the farmers' associations are included, which is to say that up to the SO is economic value, and up to three thousand euros do not have to have a job obligation. Also when we talk about the OPG that has been suspended in some things to allow them certain rights such as financing, self-employment, financing of employment through HZZ etc., etc. So, the remarks that were coming are good, they're included that I'm glad, but this is only the first. If we are going to systematically address the problem of agriculture here by calculating the segment of the OPG, and we often hear about how the OPGs are farmers in Croatia, which is what they are if you take into account clean statistics on how much agricultural land the OPGs are processing, then we need to think first of all strategically. I hope that this law is the first step, one of the steps towards a broader strategic reflection on how we will direct our agriculture and the OPGs to be as productive and competitive as possible. If we remain only for the adoption of this law without change, the Agricultural Law, the Agricultural Land Act and the adoption of the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture, then not mentioning anything. All other laws relating to agricultural resistors must be applied to this law if we are to strengthen the OPGs. If we want them to be the backbone of our agriculture, then we need to install it into other laws that regulate this area. But not only in praise, we also have a few remarks. I think they've been repeating themselves, but not to be burned, I'll repeat them. We therefore believe that the upper limit of the size of the holding should be determined, but also the minimum size of agricultural land and agricultural production to prevent possible abuses. Unfortunately, so far, we've had to bring them down to a minimum. We also think that the law should also prescribe a continued assessment of the effects of the implementation of this law precisely because we as a legislator, but above all, the ministry that will propose other acts, laws, regulations, etc. has a clear picture of what effects this law gives or whether we helped the OPGs or not, where we didn't help, where we missed the target, and where it would mean where else we need to improve and what works well. According to the proposal of this law, a member of the same family household who is a beneficiary of a pension, or a regular student, or a student, or necessarily provided on another basis, is required to be entered as a member of the OPG if the OPG register is entered in the resources listed in its ownership, for example. agricultural land. Our proposal would be to amend this in a way that if one is a member of the OPG and is not the holder of the OPG that its resources do not have to be entered or that if the resources are entered, they do not necessarily have to be entered in the register, but only if they wish to. For a lot of reasons, I think you're clear and I don't have to elaborate it any further. We are also pleased to accept the already presented proposal by colleagues Panenic about regular students who can be the holders of the OPG. Often our legal proposals, and if we do so, we are prone to overnoding, we should absolutely encourage entrepreneurship. We have here in Osijek where I come from one of the best I would dare say the best Faculty of Agriculture in Croatia. Many young people with new ideas that are being educated by innovative programs and who want to put their knowledge in motion as soon as possible, who want to get on the market, who are students, who have a country or are left to them or owned by one of the family members and want to process it, want to try. Unfortunately, this has not been possible to them so far, at least not as the holders of the OPGs, but they had to do it indirectly. Why complicate if something can be simple. A member of the same family household shall be required to be registered as a member of the OPG if resources as its ownership are entered in the OPG register and may be members of only one OPG. So, if a household member is enrolled in the OPGs his resources are therefore not assets but resources do not have to be entered in the register if he does not want to. The OPG holder may not be a person who has a registered trade for the activities of agriculture and forestry under a specific law. The OPG holder may not be a natural person who owns more than 25% of the shares in a company or other legal person registered for agricultural activity or is the chairman of a management or responsible person of a company or other legal person registered for agricultural activity or legal representative of a legal person or has a majority stake in a legal person registered for that activity, including cases of indirect ownership of the decision-making right. We think that the above part should be thrown out of the law, whether the person has a company or has 100% ownership of it should be the holder of the OPG. I think that we are also intruding into the Constitution or the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and we do not see that this should necessarily be an obstacle to someone being the holder of the OPG, especially if it is not a primary activity, since if the person is already the owner or representative of a company. It was mentioned before that Article 49 defines fines amounting to a thousand or 15 thousand kuna for the offence committed by the holder of the EAG. We also join those who think the Institute should introduce warnings before giving the punishment itself. So, in public, it often creates the impression that the goal of the state, inspectors however you want, is to just find a mistake and punish it, and it should not be so, but should first be warned that our OPGs are making some mistake and why they are doing it, which should be corrected so that some of them can be removed relatively easily, and only then punished if this failure really is repeated. I think that fellow Panenic set an example of a panel to be changed now by or should be changed under this law if the OPG holder did not set up the plate as prescribed by the law. The minimum penalty that can be determined is 1,000 kuna. You'll agree that for a small relatively small OPG is a significant amount. Much more appropriate in our opinion, whether the OPGs are first warned, and then, within a certain period, it should be a week, 15 days, 30 days after that, to be punished. In any case, as I said before, we are often prone to over-nodging, asphyxiation of entrepreneurial freedom should perhaps be considered in this direction, not to overstretched and relations in the OPG precisely because entrepreneurship should be encouraged and we often talk about how our young people do not have enough entrepreneurial spirit. I don't think so. I think they have it, and when they deal with red tape, they often get discouraged, give up, or simply don't have enough money for it. Therefore, the maximum simplification of the entry into entrepreneurship waters, in the rows of the OPG or agricultural production, of course, according to categories of whether or not it is exclusively economic activity, which is supported or not by a person or family. But also respecting the fact that many OPGs and OPGs become an additional activity on the already existing family members. As I said at the beginning, and I will still end up being a cautious optimist, that I hope that our remarks will be adopted not only by our own but also by all those who were brought here in the debate before, that in the second reading we will get a truly quality bill that we will be able to vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59307	Thank you, fellow Highdukovic. We have four replicas on his exhibit. The first replica is from a colleague named Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59308	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, the law as about OPGs as we said is certainly good and you are a convinced optimist like you said, you should always be optimistic. Unfortunately, though, our OPGs are in a very difficult situation where they were passed not only by law, laws related to the Ministry of Agriculture, or that there was no law on the OPG but also various laws from other IRS ministries, the Ministry of Finance. Today, the OPG has a very high uncertainty in its action. When you are the holder of the OPG, you pay pension, health insurance amounting to about 550 kuna and you are the only driver of machines on your OPG and God did not let anything happen to you before the season or in the season to break your arm, leg or something you do not have the right to be sick, you are working incompetent and at that short time you fail as a agricultural producer. I think the OPG that has, which is above 3SO, means that 4 must pay pension and health insurance amounting to 550 kuna, which for it is an insurmountable barrier and it simply can't stand it. That's why I'm already in the replica before, that they should be ranked on many, multiple OPG rankings so that these burdens that the OPGs have can be balanced. I've been to Austria a couple of times, in their chamber, they've got a trend of mixed OPGs on the rise. So people who work somewhere in the O.P.G. is their second profession, and they say that every job in agriculture creates two jobs in the economy. Each production and this under 3SO and above is commendable and means creating a new value and there the law needs to be adapted to make it as liberal as possible so that these people can work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59309	Thank you. Replication response. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59310	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lenart, I couldn't agree more. So 15 minutes is little time if you want to present all the proposals and challenges that our farmers and OPGs face. And not only are many OPGs in trouble, but many farmers are also generally speaking. So, we in the agriculture system need to think a lot of things over and do a lot of things to start developing our agriculture in a direction that is appropriate, that is, how it suits us, our climate, and our farmers. A whole series of laws need to be changed. I only touched those of agriculture. So, you mentioned here tax law, health insurance law, etc. But I've put an emphasis on agriculture exactly as a result of what if we say that the OPGs are important to us, that our agricultural production rests on the OPGs, then we have to take that fact into account in all other laws. The law and agricultural land that I hope will soon have in this House an opportunity to discuss should also go in this direction to make it easier for the OPGs to reach the state country. When I was talking about the restriction, it means the minimum size of agricultural production and land and the maximum level of entry into the OPG, they can agree with you and we can also rank them, small, medium, large or similar. And according to that, then prescribe their rights and obligations. And certainly if we want to protect the little ones then we'll get to meet them more. But I say this law is above all and the first step I hope in a good direction how we will get it in the second reading I hope only better and all other legal acts and rules that will come from the ministry based on this law should be precisely in the light of the strengthening of our CAPs and agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59311	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59312	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, therefore, has brought positive and negative sides to this law in your debate. What seems most important to me during today's debate is this highlighted, this law not only needs to enable family agricultural economies to compete and enter the market. He must worry about the existence of the Croatian village. And that's why I'm going to mention once again what bothers me in this law, and I hope that I have your support in that, too. Namely, why is a family farmer a natural person? Because that is the tradition of being conditioned, from generation to generation, homeowner, the head of the household was also the bearer of the family farm. Well, let's just say it's not a problem with a family farm in the area of Bordeaux that has hundreds of acres of vineyards. But we have a problem with us, we have small plots, fragmentation and inability to actually be competitive because there are not even these short supply chains, we don't have freezers. That's why I think it's a little bit of a provision that there can be only one O.P.G. in the household. I think it's even pointless. It's said someone here told their colleagues to prevent malfeasance. So I say, wait, we've got the IRS we've got a good thing now this law introduces the OPG's obligation to keep records of sold products and everything. Well, you can see the IRS has entrances and exits, so repromation and everything. You can see who's working the land who doesn't, who's subletting it. So if you want to control yourself, you can do it another way, not say there can't be two OPGs in one household because of the creation of artificial conditions. I don't understand it until the end, because we're not going to reach our goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59313	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Hajdukovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59314	Well, I agree with my colleague, Sagaru, in a few views. First of all, the OPG activity, therefore, does not only have an economic advantage. They also have a social line. As we talked about when we discussed amendments to the Hunting Law, hunting societies also have a social line very important and expressed in rural areas, so have the OPGs to keep themselves, to stay in their countries, to process the country. Therefore, the OPGs should be a simpler way to exist on the market and a simpler way of agricultural production. Compassion is something that matters to us. It's a long and expensive and painful process, but precisely because you said so small fragmented plots, because of the rounding, rationalization of the instructions you need to get the maximum exits we'll need. And also when we talk about the placement of our products produced by OPGs when you have incomes, and 70% of the employees in Croatia have between 3 and 5 thousand kuna gross, then you can't have, you can't afford the awareness of what you buy. Then you buy the cheapest whatever it is, and that's often poor quality. On the other hand, our OPGs produce high-quality products that are often not pricey, perhaps not competitive imports, but high-quality products are. But the sad thing is, here's 70% of our fellow citizens who are employed, I can't afford it. So, in order for our OPGs to prosper, we need to change some more things not only of the Agriculture Act, not just of the communication, but of generality and increase the income that our citizens have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59315	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59316	Thank you, Your Honor. Col. Hajdukovic, you were talking about the situation in agriculture is generally bad. I think we can all agree that it's bad here, but clearly there are just great possibilities here. When I'm trying to figure out a situation, then I put myself in the skin of these people, and now in this case I'm going to tell you about farmers. I think we also agree that Croatian laws are too much. One thing when you're a farmer, I think we should make it possible for people to deal with agriculture, not for people to deal with agriculture, to deal with bureaucracy, to think about how they're going to place, how they're going to store their products. I think that they should do the most farming work and there's a lot of state to do, and the ministry, and the county, and local communities to allow that agricultural placement to open the freezer, to provide them with age payments, the market, and they should just produce. That's the most important thing. A farmer is not educated for marketing he is not educated for finance, he is not educated for all this expensive which in our case is an out of control. He should be able to produce as much as possible, as best, as possible. And the state, the local self-government unit, would have to help in all this together to make it as simple as possible. Every time we think about what it's like for them, we need to put ourselves in their position and what we would do to make it easier for ourselves in their position. And I think here with this law that's good, which needs to be fixed, but also to simplify let's help the farmers because actually I wouldn't say it's the future, that it's something that's a national interest we can call it very important, but let's simplify things, let's help people be as simple and as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59317	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Preec absolutely agrees with that. That's what we were just talking about. So this should be... I would say so not only by the state, not only by the legislator, but also by the local self-government and the farmers and Croatian agricultural chambers themselves, and advisory services, and schools, schools that educate our future agronomies, etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it takes a lot of change to have an efficient and cost-effective farm. Well, let's just say the iceboxes are a very big problem. In the area where I come from, for example, from Baranja you have a lot of acres under the orchards, so let's say, a lot of apples, a lot of peaches. It's a seasonal fruit that if you don't sell it at the moment it matures and you pick it up it collapses. Most OPGs have no capacity, they have no brands, and they have nothing to satisfy to be able to process that fruit, therefore, whether it's juices, whether it's drying, some other ways of processing, etc. There's no such thing as a coolant's bet. A large project to be built in Osijek-Baranja County has been standing for years and we have been arguing about it in the county assembly for years, but I fear the project is not progressing. And who suffers the most? Well, our producers are suffering, not us. We need product markets. So if you're also a big supplier, you want to buy some product on the big you don't have anywhere to buy it. So if you say you're a hotel and you want to buy 200 tons of cooking, you're not going to buy 50 kg. You want to buy everything in one place. We don't have a uniform standard of quality, we don't have brands, we don't have recognition. It's something to work on. Like Osijek is a cradle of Croatian beekeeping. We've just started working on a brand of Slavonic honey. The Krapina-Zagorian County, for example, did this to itself with a brand of Zagorje honey. Although you meet certain standards you can sell your product like that, that's the direction you need to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59319	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59320	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, you have offered me one of your statements about penalties going towards the OPGs and I must admit that you are right here and that you would certainly be all the agencies that are not only in this case whether they have a board or not because unfortunately there are a lot of agencies of state-wide various ministries that communicate with small farmers and I must say that even when I was a minister, I have always insisted from the IRS that there is one general approach that if they should even announce certain that they will go into some kind of inspection surveillance which I think is much better than that some jacks work to catch someone in some kind of irregularities. And I know that on the other hand I always got – so look at the tax... - well, if it wasn't for the cause, it shouldn't be the tax administration's goal to punish not only tax administrations, but not to punish everyone else. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the easiest thing to do is to punish someone when in this law forest you can't find something, but even if you do, to announce that you will come. And even what I insisted if they find out for example. in such OPGs that everyone makes similar mistakes, then it's not a problem in them, then the problem in an institution that didn't explain its law well. We sometimes bring laws here ourselves, we make them ourselves, and we don't know what they look like in practice, we don't know what they look like in practice. Then it all depends on the interpretation of individuals in these institutions as someone interprets, as someone does not interpret. Then you go to different institutions and then you get different interpretations. I think that should certainly simplify not only through this law but also through lifting, for example. paying certain taxes on a flat-rate basis, taxation of flat-rate flats. We've raised from 85 grand to 230 grand whether you're entering the VAT system or not, and here we were, let's say about the region, somewhere at the top. We know that the minister even promised that part would rise even more, and I think that's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59321	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59322	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovac, I agree absolutely with you especially in this part of what I think the institution's inspections should also have an educational element. That's what you were talking about. So point out the mistake, explain where the mistake is being done, and then if someone deliberately repeated and after the warning makes that mistake then we can assume they're not doing that bona fide, and it does... fide and then it should be punished. And I ran the company myself, and I was responsible for her, and I know what it is when you get a tax inspection, and I have to tell you that it depends very much on the person of the tax inspector or the inspector. So you have really great people who work there, who are willing to help you and point out a mistake, and you have some who just want to punish you. Punishment is not a solution to the problem more or less problems should go through education, and perhaps a step and a more efficient tax system should also be simplifying the tax system to make it as effective as possible for people to understand it then would probably be less mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59323	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the clubs. Mr Batinić, on behalf of the CNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59324	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. This law was necessary for us all to be aware, and it is read out of the debate that in one place we practically have a summary of what the OPG represents. Of course, this bill should also be put in the context of the time in which agricultural production is in our condition and a series of problems related to the general view of agricultural production. I'll try very briefly after I rush to the board and try to cut one. I also ask questions to all of us, especially the Secretary of State, what is the OPG today in Croatia? What is all the OPG in Croatia? I think that, above all, we have largely received answers through this law, but I think we should define more clearly and determine what is social in agriculture, which is a hobby in agriculture, and what is agricultural production on the OPGs. I also have a question. Economic size, meaning foundations and surfaces and averages etc. So the standard offering? Looking at the economic dictionary as a standard economic result. That's probably a win-win? Or is it production? If that's what this is about, then I think this is about some kind of extra income. Furthermore, when it comes to agricultural production we have heard here that the only region, our regions, so to speak, that have developed the OPG is Istria and Baranja. And I believe it's for objective reasons. Whether it's a matter of tradition, whether it's the size of a surface or some other reason. I come from northern Croatia where we belong under half a hectare of 0.40 and some hectares per surface, there are some OPGs very few. For many years we have tried and from the local level you are looking for ways and from the regional level to increase the number of OPGs that this agricultural production on family economies rises to some small higher level, I can simply say, I will not say without success, but with very modest results. Of course, the initiative must start with an individual or, of course, the owner of the OPG. But also, I know we have this data that a large number of O.P.G.s that are registered to be simply hobbies. Now. In addition to the OPGs, not only does this part have to be formally arranged for what we absolutely accept and what is to be commended and these OPGs also have the possibility to run for European money, whether to give national funds. Is that the right thing to do to finance a hobby? That's my question. As for the sociale, I think that segment should be solved and perhaps not by this, but absolutely this law here should give certain guidelines and address the sociale from some other funds. The intensity of this law is not and cannot be and no one expects it to solve problems in agricultural production. From the delicacy of the property, from a number of other problems that agricultural production in Croatia is burdened, but in any case, it gives one of the most quality frameworks so far. What I'd like to point out is, what might need to be a little more flexible might be arranged, a status choice. Namely, why I'm saying it, there's the possibility of registering, the choice of how you're going to sign up. In fact, certain experiences for us in northern neighbouring Slovenia where the different tradition of family farms is for many years, even about 25 and 30 years ago, I had the opportunity to be a guest in a agricultural economy and I can somehow say that from today's perspective I think it would be something that would especially in rural areas poorly populated in Croatia, which should be some goal of sustainability of an OPG. Sustainableness produces everything that can be produced on the agricultural economy not only for its own purposes, but for the needs of its entire family, wider coffee communities, sugar, oil even products. Coffee and sugar cannot be produced because it simply technologically or has the possibility of processing. I own the machinery products, the heat for your needs. It sells all its products that it manufactures, but sells and manufactures adjacent OPGs. They're all selling each other. This product I don't know, it's his primary vineyard, he's got cattle. So he's got milk, dairy. This one grows pigs or cattle of some other kind. So they're all selling everything on one economy. Is it possible by this law, I didn't read it, so please correct me. That's one thing. Secondly, they can get a boost from the state and get primarily to live in that space. They are assisted in the procurement means when he is exhausted from the supply mechanism, for the restoration of the livestock stock, for the restoration of permanent plantations. So it gets all possible incentives in the sense of course adequate and its incomes and all together. What I'd still like to point out. Have you thought about making this law go away but if we remove the hobby, if we remove the sociale, if we leave the real OPGs mean those who have agricultural production of some kind of license for their products? I like the slogan very much, and I support it and I will support it whenever there will be some criticism from Brussels "let's buy Croatian". Yeah, I want to go to the O.P.G., buy some homemade fruit, some homemade salad. Why am I saying that? You have various O.P.G.s registered as restaurants or catering facilities and he has O.P.G.s. It's a Lidl salad. Wine of unknown origin. The meat probably whether Lidl, whether Consume, whether or not I know what and how and everything is sold to the O.P.G. Have you thought about banning it? Have you considered banning it? He shouldn't sell it to the law, but he does sell it in the real world. That's why the licensing issue is because if I'm invited to Slovenians say it more domestically, I say family economy, rural economy. Why are we afraid of that name? Traditionally, nice. It may surprise my colleagues as a liberal to see traditionally, but I think that's what we should all have and what we should be proud of. I think this law is good. This is the right way. But I'd like you to try to think about it, and in that sense, especially take one guy, even now he's under 10 residents per mile square. Ten residents per mile square, scary. Slavonia gets smaller every day. Banovina I think that statisticalally maybe it's something more quality, maybe it's more populous than Lika. Isn't there room for a state if and if there isn't one initial core to go there targeted at forming just like that let's say family economies, rural households I might prefer that name? In the end, we will support this law but I had a need because it also enters these topics to try, of course, there needs an integrated approach to regional development. We also need to see if we can even revise the rural development program. But we must also be aware that some things will not happen on their own. Let's try to use this law to upgrade certain programs just to make the village that dies, unfortunately die, rise from that level. With us in northern Croatia, it will be a little harder. It'll be a little harder. It's a traditional processing industry. Those agricultural producers who set off as OPGs and they became craftsmen, businesses. Planting because it is not equal to treatment at 1.3 or 1 and a half hectares to grow vegetables or have something else, permanent plantations may be either dependent, or grow cattle. So I'm saying, maybe in that part we shouldn't over-slave the administration and let's say for certain narrow criteria. I think even though this law would give us opportunities but I'm saying the goal is for us to try to revitalize the village. So if you need any changes to this law, I certainly believe you'll get the support of everyone to do it. Thank you. Finally, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59325	Thank you, too. You have several replicas. First, Mr. Tomislav Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59326	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Batinic, have you actually asked a key question in your debate, which is that it is a family agricultural economy? I think the Agriculture Act defined it very simply, meaning carrying out agricultural activities with its own or leased resources and that's it. All of this other stuff is actually extra restrictions that are imposed. Now what's the point? You see yourself as a liberal, so I would just point out two things, one you said that the social problem should be solved through other programs. Do you mean small family farms that generate incomes that are not sufficient, for example? for their lives only from this activity but rather from their additional activity. Is that social? I don't think so. Of course, there's always this myth that we're sort of dealing with some of the social problems of our O.P.G. No, we need to deal with the organisation that they can make their products at a fair price, so even today we will have a law on unfair commercial practice, distribute and make revenue from it and give them a boost and a potential for growth. The fact that we intend to determine whether one of them is more or less social is not the subject to which this law should be dealt. What you refer to further refers to the provision of additional services in catering. I'll just tell you we can't observe 160 thousand OPGs through a certain smaller number that performs the catering activity. You've seen many conditions that must be met. And they're allowed special laws to sell other products. And then, of course, their visitors determine whether it is appropriate and whether they want to repeat the experience of coming to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59327	Thank you, too. Mr. Batinic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59328	Thank you. Col. Panenić, meaning when I was talking about the definition of the OPG that we have to distinguish what the social system is, which is a hobby, which is an additional activity in the country, which is agricultural production on the OPG. I think you'll agree with me because it's simply a Croatian reality. I don't mind, one, the other, the third and the fourth. But this law should be even more rigorous than it is. And I think a hobby, someone's hobby doesn't need to be financed, and by that law, there's a possibility of running. And the Priory is against it, we can solve the sociale and we have ways to solve it in other ways. The extra activity that, why not, but the real agricultural production, that's what I'm talking about. When I was talking about the possibility of what is being sold, or what is being served on the O.P.G. through catering activity, if I come to the O.P.G. if it's rural tourism as it is already called, irrelevant, but it's formally registered as an O.P.G., I want to eat the meat that he has grown. I want to drink the wine that his neighbor raised or someone also registered. And eat that meat, eat that salad, salad is too pretty from Lidla's. I don't mind, whoever likes to go. That's why I mentioned licensing. We do not need to look at it because it is not something that cannot be implemented in practice. I think you're in, too, because listening to your debate I've come to that conclusion, more or less everyone here. I know it's a process that lasts and requires great effort, and the responsibility of an integrated approach, the regional development of the Ministry of Agriculture under which rural development is, of course, us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59329	Thank you, too. Mr. Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59330	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Batinic, therefore, you have opened a number of topics in your debate. One of the most important things is when you said in the introduction what is actually a family agricultural economy? It is our problem in the Republic of Croatia that we do not have a strategy for agricultural development and that strategy we did not really define which direction Croatian agriculture should go in. So in this sense, the Family Agricultural Economy Act can solve problems in one segment, offer solutions, these solutions can be wrong but it offers solutions for family farms to be recognizable, how to compete in this competition, how to set some rules. And when we ask ourselves, you're asking the same question as who can be the family agricultural economy is that determined by the size of the agricultural land itself, the resource that has or is already actually economic results? I don't think that's the key question. The key question is actually the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the land. We're all in space, and you said that yourself, you're getting more relaxed. We don't have any more people, people are the ones holding the Croatian village and actually ensuring life on the premises. We have 80% of our settlements with less than 500 inhabitants. And that's why we as a country have to identify ourselves in our strategy what we're going to encourage and how. We have to subsidize the railroad, because where there's no commercial train there then they won't drive. The same thing was with shipbuilding and now we come to Croatian agriculture. She's subsidizing. But here we need to know whether we are going to encourage our family farms to save room for, to preserve the Croatian village or here as we have so far to encourage large systems such as the Agrokora case and where in fact such a large system will provide us with the largest part of the food that comes to the market in the Republic of Croatia. Or we want that food as it is in the world that 60 or 70% of the food comes from family farms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59331	Thank you. Mr. Batinic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59332	Well, colleague Sagar, I think I am, and I'm going to repeat what I said more or less, maybe in another way, but if I come to a family agricultural economy, I'm going to specify a catering offer, it's the goal and I think the purpose of coming is to spend one weekend, or one day, or anyone who can in the environment, in the country. And I don't want to eat Lidl salad then, I don't want to eat vervain farm pork, cauldron or anything else, June. You understand what I'm saying? That's why I'm talking about licensing. It's equally prosciutto, but we know which meat and how. In that direction I'm saying that you might need to see legal options, but this is roof law, this is lex specialis, the other laws have to adapt to that law. And that's why I'm saying that you try to see let's make a pilot licensing project. As my colleague Sponza Istria has a tradition of Baranja, here are two bright examples. Let's work out there for every area of licensing, so let's all go together and spend money there and it's not a problem who wants to, who can naturally afford to pay for one lunch is 300 kuna on the O.P.G., so they'll pay, who won't go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59333	We're gonna eat better than at the Parliament restaurant, you want to say, is that it? Mrs. Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59334	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm glad you mentioned what an economic size it is. This is a relatively new concept, although it also sounds like a logical value of production, but the way it counts is specific, it is calculated by one specific calculator and is calculated differently in continental Croatia, and it is different in Adriatic Croatia. So you as a farmer don't come alone my size is that and you come to the service that calculates your economic size based on the plant production area, if you're a cattleman then on the throats you have. You enter this into the calculator, and all the figures are obtained based on the collection of statistical data of farmers engaged in the same activity in a given territory of Croatia. And we've been saying this a lot lately, and we're counting on it to just be the foundation so that we can know what measures of the rural development programme we can use. And I'm glad you mentioned the quality tags, or you mentioned the licenses and that they should be regulated legally. But what's more important is finding funds to finance quality tags and we have that in the rural development programme right now. As far as organic products are concerned, such tenders have been, but we now need to strongly encourage quality labels in the next period. You mentioned what I can read from your sentences, these are these geographical labels of quality, but they have many others. And what we look forward to every day to see constantly new products that are protected not only at national level but also at EU level, so I believe that we must all strongly adhere to it. And the very request for the protection of a product licensing is submitted by the civil sector association which applies to all producers who adapt to these conditions which are assessed to protect them because this product is more specific than some standard and that salad from Lidl, which you often mention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59335	Thank you. Mr. Batinic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59336	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow I'd just like the standard output to mean what comes out, the standard imput, and there's exactly the economic score. Which is an economic result but a profit. So I was just suggesting in the debate write down the rest of the income or whatever, you understand. Now, if we're going to go by those standards I have, each of us has some history of hobby dealing in agriculture, so it was time in '93, '94. After we've come back a part of us from the eastern battlefield, you've got some land, so you feed home something for your own needs, so you've got half a gallon of land, so let's go corn, let's let's stay, let's go corn production for what, left, right, and I've come three times as expensive that corn production on my OPG let's call it what I could buy from the manufacturer, whether the threshold of rentability is 10 hectares, 5 hectares for corn or for cereals, etc. So I'm going to say this is a very relative size, but if the parameters are set, I absolutely agree. And I'd like three thousand euros about it, if that's the rest of my income when I settle all of mine, and that's not so bad. If we take the average salary in Croatia which is, I think if two people work for the average salary of a four-member family that they can't make it happen, it can't be the rest of their income. So not that I'm being skeptical about it, but I just wish maybe it was more clearly defined what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59337	Thank you very much. Mr. Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59338	Thank you, Vice President. I understood your debate in this section when you spoke about the OPG as a target group of farmers where they should focus on agricultural economies that should contribute to development, not social categories of hobbyists, and I agree with you absolutely. So the social category of hobbyists of these half-rain corn that you listed or my 500 chocolates, then if I'm left with 300 liters of wine, I can't be a problem or I'm not a problem with this law. Such hobbyists shouldn't be a problem. But I don't understand why you're all talking and you were talking about a maximum that wasn't proposed in this law. Isn't that what makes it possible to develop, isn't it limited because it's not a limiting factor? Didn't we have this in socialism 10 acres, so we said it was a limiting factor in development. Do you think it's a good thing we have a limiting factor of some, I don't know how many 10 acres, I'm going to say now what we had in socialism, is the same amount of land in Slavonia, Baranja, Zagora, Lika or Neretva? It's not. And I'm wondering if you really think limiting the maximum would be a good provision for this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59339	Thank you. Mr. Batinic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59340	Thank you, Vice President. If we look at colleagues Križanić administratively, then I suppose it should be limited in some way, depending on the payment of taxes, whether to enter the VAT system etc., etc. In fact, my debate primarily went that this law was in principle to say some beginning that especially in demographically devasted areas I would not say habitable, that may be a little harshly said, but to revitalize the village through agricultural production at the OPGs. I'm not limited, I'm not limited to property, because if the property is bigger, it needs more hands. So, one logic. You're those professions and you know a lot better than I do that we're going to talk about the woods, then I'd say I know more than you do, but I don't know about agriculture that much. So if one hectare of vegetable production takes so many hands, if ten hectares times ten. So I'm not up for restrictions, but maybe you misunderstood me. I said that it should determine what a social, which is a hobby, which is an additional activity at the OPG, which is a real agricultural production on the OPG. And I think this law should maybe define it more clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59341	Thank you. Mr. Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59342	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Batinić, somewhere in Croatia, we have about 165,000 OPGs, and I think the OPG is some family work, some smaller families, and here you mentioned in your speech hospitality in OPGH. On one occasion I was in Austria, out there somewhere in Burgeland is as much as I remember somewhere in Vienna, and exactly what you were talking about earlier was there as much as I could examine in a village a restaurant where the OPG Austrian had and where they and the family had this little restaurant where they served food. The truth all from their, supposedly their production or some other OPGs, but in a certain time. So not all year, a certain time where they served I was present and allegedly not paying any obligations and taxes, selling their food at their little restaurant that I was present. I also think that this could be done in Croatia, allow certain OPGs that work, and it does not take in consummation and so, it does, it must also be food from the OPG neighborhood and I think it would be a good thing for our OPGs, that they have the right to create a small restaurant, work a few months without obligation to sell their food and thus ensure their safety and ultimately raise their standard. We simply have to open our eyes and allow those smaller ones to come up with something and give them hope and commission, especially I'm talking about my Slavonia where I come from, where the big villages are, where it could be done. So at a certain time when he wants to sell his products open with his family, he serves them and works in the kitchen and everything I saw in Austria. I think we could take a look at what's going on in neighbouring countries especially Austria and see these laws and do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59343	Thank you. Mr. Batinic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59344	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think there was any difference between this one of yours and what I was talking about. So based on the experiences I've experienced and experienced here's a story from next door. On the family economy the deal was to get us 20 and something at Martin's specifically, the man prepared a goose from his own breeding, not one but more of them, but the wine had no neighbor. But you had exactly the label written everything you needed, everything else was in his direction, so raised on his O.P.G. That's what I'm talking about. And I'm saying that ultimately, why we're going to support this law, because for the first time it defines a specific area of agricultural activity, that is, how agricultural activity can be organised. And I consider it an initial core let's call it what we have in Croatian, but this should, through this law and through this law, create better assumptions for the development of agricultural production in agricultural economies in Croatia. Of course, it's all processes. It won't be tomorrow or when this law comes into force, it'll all bloom immediately. Of course they won't, of course they won't, but I'm saying these are possibilities and I'm saying we shouldn't, of course we can't even copy things blindly, because they may not be applicable to us, but more or less in our environment you mentioned Austria, I mentioned Slovenia, I believe elsewhere. I don't think we should invent hot water, but just look at it, analyze the situation in other neighbouring countries and apply as realistically as possible to us. Of course, what will certainly not be possible without the support of the state, and here is the Rural Development Fund with a series of measures precisely for the development of the OPG.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59345	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59346	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministry representatives and respected counterpart Batinic. If I understand you correctly, and I hope so, then I read from your presentation that you are in some way advocating not only the definition, but also the activity of the OPG and that you see an almost strategic issue that goes beyond this law itself. So in this context, you mentioned the catering activity, and I have only come out to give you support for such thinking, because today it has become clear that people are beginning to realize that what is extremely important is food. And when we know that what's for the body is food, and for the brain information, then we see, we have, we have the possibility of predicting what might happen to this law and to this definition of license or license for the OPGs. In addition to this law, I think it will lead to it being able to revitalise people who are currently in the country that will revitalize the village in a way that people will return there. For this reason, it seems very important to me that I tell the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture that this proposal, Mr Batinić, should be respected and that you try to implement it in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59347	Thank you, too. We're moving on with the clubs. Mr. Batinic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59348	Thank you. I'm glad you agree with your colleague, Dodig. In fact, economic logic if you take it to be like a kilo of lamb 25 kuna, it's roasted with coffee let and 50% do it twice as much. Similarly, if you serve wine, it can be 15 kunas 12, 17 depending on the variety, when you serve it it can be as much as 40 to 120% more expensive on the OPG, depending on the variety. That's what I'm saying, why I stand for it means direct sales, not at the cost of production, but at the price of the service, and of course the greater the rest of who lives on the family farm. So, more or less everyone produces that kind, that's the goal. That's the goal. Of course, by respecting all the other positive regulations that define, I would love to, and I believe that whoever goes with the kid on the family economy has to enter the VAT system absolutely, nothing terrible will happen to him. But that's perspective. But more importantly, why do I think this law is extremely important because it should initiate development precisely with the support of both policy and regional and rural development that particularly areas are poorly populated, abandoned, where the village is extinct, that the village is revitalised.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59349	Thank you very much. And now yes, now we have a club. Mr Branimir Bunjac, A Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and Power.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59350	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. In front of us today is the Proposal for a Law on the Family Agricultural Economy, first reading, a topic that is very interesting and very important for the reason that food production should be one of the main activities in the Republic of Croatia. This law should be a team before more important precisely because domestic production has been destroyed by various monopolies, but primarily by uncontrolled imports. Of course, if domestic production was renewed, and precisely the OPGs had huge potential, GDP would grow to jobs, increase exports, but also what is also very important would be to highlight improvements in citizens' health. Because it is certain that one of the causes of poorer health and increased isolation for health care is this terrible imports of mostly unquality foods that have started somewhere since 1997, 98, when the first foreign-owned trade chains were opened in Croatia. And then when such a law appears in the parliamentary procedure, we would expect that the aim of the law is to strengthen the CAPs primarily small, then strengthen the competitiveness of their products and generally represent their interests. And if it is true that there are some good solutions in the bill itself, in fact it does not follow good practice, but in fact we can say in a certain way it goes back to the benefit of the corporation and large capital, so these questions that I said at the introduction itself are not solved. In addition, some articles in the Bill's proposal are unarranged and are also illogical that I will try to present in this presentation and briefly. As a result of this law, most small OPGs could be shut down as costs increase. Therefore, starting from the application of production plants in which the OPGs carry out their activities, and a lot of such processing production or other facilities on small OPGs are not legalised, which means that these Laws will not be able to obtain the necessary documentation on minimum technical conditions and thus will not be able to carry out the intended activity. The bill's proposal goes too far into family relations with regard to ownership rights, and it also limits the OPG holder that he can no longer be a member of the management of a company or its owner if he deals with agricultural production. When I spoke of indifference and indiscriminateness, I dare say that there are real absurdities here. Let's say in Article 3. I think he was also talking about it, and he clearly writes about it – the OPG is a strategically important organisational form of the agricultural economy in the Republic of Croatia. So I believe most MPs understand very well what it means to be something strategic. If it's strategic, it's not for sale. And we, in Article 9 of that same law, have paragraph 1 that citizens of the European Union can open the OPGs in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So it's essentially contradictory, if something is strategic, let's say I don't know now are strategic forests, water or some companies, railways, mail, I can't go to the owners, and the OPG which is therefore a strategic interest he can go to. I would dare say that it is not just absurd, but that it is in some way a betrayal of national interests and that the legislator should think a little bit more about it until the second reading. You also have an article 41. Here we can look at the law, paragraph 1. for the obligations that arise in the performance of the economic activity corresponds to the holder of the OPG with all its assets, and members of the OPG as solid guarantees. So, all those involved in the operation of the OPGs are in charge of their entire assets for the resulting OPG debts. In order to achieve monetary demand, paragraph 2 shall not be implemented on the part of the agricultural resources entered in the OPG register which are necessary to carry out its economic activity. What, then, is the entire asset if it can't be carried out on the other side over this part? So it's contradictory, or it's all property or it's not all property. It cannot be an entire asset and part of the property listed in the law at the same time. In addition, this law may lead to the fact that the OPGs of small surfaces will have to close down their activities even though they should not restrict or prohibit the operation of the OPGs that are small surfaces. The problem is that these small surfaces cannot be introduced into this famous ARCOD records for reasons because they are components of cadastrian particles that are led to a cataster such as construction sites, courtyards and others, which could essentially produce enough products that could be inherited, are intended for sale. Also in this law, the penalties provided for by the OPGs are definitely too large. We can imagine a situation where the owners of the OPG will not know about these changes of the law, they simply don't arrive, the laws come nonstop, and many people who are employed simply don't have time to study timely legislation, and it is envisaged that they can pay up to 15000 kuna for the offence and immediately. So, as soon as there's a problem. I think it would be good to introduce a way of working on inspections that first comes advice, first advice, then education, then only at the end of the sentence and not immediately give a man 15 thousand kuna, and already we see how many a bunch of OPGs are in trouble, they have blockages, they can't work, and then they'll still have to get punishment for something that wasn't necessarily sanctioned. If penalties are already imposed, too, the first sentence should not amount to more than 200 kuna for offences, it would be bearable. Normally, if someone finds themselves repeatedly breaking regulations, then they can also be punished by this fine of 15000 kuna, so even bigger. Also, this law does not mention the possibility of ensuring the placement of products from the OPGs anywhere, which is very bad, because this is the issue of buying-in, or selling-out products is very problematic and it is challenging to the sustainability of these OPGs, so it should introduce into the law the obligation of local, regional units to assist OPGs in the placement of their products. This could be done through organised fairs, through manifestations, through incentives, through subsidies, through co-financing or on some other forms that are acceptable to local administration units. We developed a plan in the Living Wall in the spring of 2016, thus creating a market for domestic agricultural production. Unfortunately, no one paid attention to him even though we gave it to the public for insight. Among other things, we stated that the government and the ministries should cooperate with foreign-state embassies on this issue. We also stated that the government should also simplify these control requirements, that the Ministry of Agriculture should introduce digital OPG maps that would be updated in due time, just so that citizens who want to like Mr Batinić, and I believe that most of you want to buy domestic products, can buy products from their own OPGs to know where to get them. Unfortunately, today it comes down to individual attempts, and you actually sometimes simply buy unquality at these malls, and you don't know that maybe somewhere within a few miles there's the same product that's much more quality, so what's interesting is maybe even cheaper. We also suggested, it may not be a direct topic of this ministry, but we suggested that the government should encourage the restoration of school gardens and vegetables. Once every school had this, it just stands today as some empty area near the school and there could be young people, especially those living in villages interested in working in the OPGs, in working in agriculture and in fact to carry out a lifelong activity that would bring profits because Croatia really has opportunities to cover not only its own needs, but also exports. It is saddened that some countries that have much less quality land, much less quality climate than the Republic of Croatia every year achieve an increase in exports of agricultural products, and we only increase imports. And what MP Križanić said about the disaster, in fact that we are not importing food today, the Croats would be hungry. This is indeed a very, very sad finding, and we need to ask ourselves what this has led to or what we can do to reverse such a situation. We have also proposed and we would like to continue to propose that campaigns, public campaigns and campaigns be implemented worldwide, in all European Union countries, positive campaigns representing the CAPs as sources of healthy, domestic food as a way for the whole of the country to recover, its economy and for public people to be involved in these positive campaigns. Unfortunately, we lack this creativity, and here in this sense, if we could send a message to someone a little bit of a change of consciousness, we would be very pleased. In any case, for the time being, we believe that these amendments to the law are not acceptable, that most OPG owners do not want such changes and we believe that the law should be significantly processed until second reading in order for it to fulfil its function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59351	Thank you. The first replica, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59352	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bunjac, every time the government proposes a certain law, and when it comes to the Parliament, somehow it is not possible to take away the impression that ministers are of course thinking and how many coins will come into the country's "cash of pig" in the application of that law. When we warned Minister Maric here that it was not good to raise the VAT rate to hospitality he did not listen. I'm interested in the data, I'm not good at it, it's my fault I didn't read in the budget, but it doesn't seem to me that much more taxes are paid from that base in VAT by increasing the rate from 13% to 25%. Even less could have happened because many guests opened new companies, new businesses to get out of the VAT system. And now we have a situation in this law and I'm going to point out again it seems to me very important, the two brothers who live in different households they can start each of their OPGs, if they want to, together. But two brothers living in the same household can't, they have to be together. Why? So in order not to accidentally avoid tax obligations let them just cross that threshold of 80,000 500 or what it is now, so they will pay nicely, they will enter the VAT system and pay income taxes, all obligations. I think it's the law's intensity. What's to defend? Let people decide their own fates. If we want to help the O.P.G., if we want to really, so be it the father and son, brother and sister, who, if they want to have separate O.P.G.s let them have them. Let's not just look at it through taxes and some kind of possible abuse. It is the only way we can develop the Croatian village. And as far as this last part of you is concerned, it's not the last part of your exposure, but the last part of what seems very important to me is that I pointed out in the beginning that someone who doesn't have a residence in the Republic of Croatia can't have a family agricultural economy. That's consistent with common sense and that doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59353	The answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59354	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Žagar, you are right when you say that the Croatian state is becoming too bureaucratic and that people are simply so harassed with the red tape of all possible species, starting with these fiscalizations, legalization, putting a board on the door of the barn, measuring the cages for the feathers, and I don't know what, that many people really end up losing their will at all to do some kind of overwork. They just say -- we'd better sit at home, get some social aid or anything, than go through this torture that ends often with blockades, and the overruns and lifelong debts, so people have to kill themselves like that poor man next to Bjelovar in order to get out to cut that Gordian knot of debt slavery. I think that, in any case, these laws should be simplified that here as you say, and that tax discharge is very important. For example, people who live in Zagreb for a long time have known until taxi prices have dropped, for example. No one was driving a cab. As soon as the prices went down, and you remember how much resistance they were, demonstrations on the streets. Everybody's driving today. And most interesting of all today instead of 100 taxi drivers you have in Zagreb 10 thousand taxi drivers. But politics is different with us. Instead of going to the discharge, to go to the development of us is practically going to destruction, to asphyxiation, and there is a question for what reason. Is it just out of ignorance or because they're actually represented by certain lobbys? And you ask small farmers, people who sell in the markets who are those who create a monopoly on the Croatian market and why they must eventually give up the activities that their families have practically performed for centuries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59355	Thank you very much. Mr. Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59356	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague here, in fact, you may have opened up one of those key things actually saying about a provision that states that the OPGs are a strategic organisational form. When something is strategic, there is probably a strategy behind it, it means that the strategy is also defined as agricultural production, which agricultural producers, which forms are strategic. What do we have? We first determine in the law that something is strategic and then under the law we do strategy. We made a bit of a mistake in that order so that this strategic remark is very good because it turns out to lift our finger and see if they smoke from HDZ's side then it's strategic, if they smoke from the manufacturer's side then it's seen that basically that the law is not so strategically oriented and that it doesn't protect all interests and especially does not fit what's expected of the law. So this law is really expected to make life easier for family farms so that they can function more easily and develop faster. I like it and this finding about here we have come out here and in our presentation on behalf of the club to introduce a warning. What's missing in that anyway, and I support counseling, education, it's a process that we all need to go through. Let's also consider what we're saying today, both you and I, what we said and the others, is that this is one consultation process before it actually comes to a situation that can't be put back. So what we're going to have to do is we're going to have to change the law supplement that they're going to say, and here we are now promoting it, so the effect isn't exactly what we're planning. And I personally miss that no one does an impact assessment, that we get here to see what the impact assessment is. Is that after this law 160000 OPG or 60 or less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59357	Thank you, too. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59358	Thank you very much, Reverend Panenic. So our government, or governments, is always prone to big words. They will always, whenever something is to be announced, pre-electionally promised, use such words as strategic interests, the protection of national goods, and then we see when this law comes into what is called procedure that these same words do not have the same content, meaning that they should have. Croatia has 35000 square kilometres of farmland of 56 thousand kilometers of its surface area. So we have 60% of the territory that can be farmed, and we are in a situation, so we import food mass year by year, and unfortunately, in 2017, the trade deficit increases. So again, imports increased even more than exports did. That's not good, it's not good because, say, you have in Ireland which is a full protection of domestic production to the extent that you have one foreign goods policy on the shelves, right next to it. There's no problem. Here we are limited to not knowing that we have a campaign "Bought Croatian", "Bought original", "Bough traditional". We have a situation I don't know that Denmark increases agricultural exports year by year and again I repeat they have less quality land than we have in Croatia. On this side, I agree with you that it is necessary to invest in education, that the whole government, all ministries, all institutions, institutions need to be engaged. But we still don't have that consciousness, and as we can see from this law, there's no solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59359	Mr. Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bunjac, I'm always happy to delude in with you because I can correct you when you're simply saying things that don't stand. So you said that national high treason or something like that is if the provision by which EU citizens can buy agricultural land in Croatia. Pretty much. Now, I don't know what national high treason is, but it's certainly not meeting international obligations. So Article 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU clearly states that restrictions on the movement of capital in the common European market are prohibited. Of course, the restrictions are primarily discrimination, but there goes what, and I would refer to my colleague, Sagara, and the residence. So if you condition the possibility of buying agricultural land in your area, it is also considered indirect discrimination and is prohibited under EU law. So, this is not invented by some phantom bureaucrats, but is clearly derived from the practice of the EU court. These are simple facts, you can check, I can give you the case numbers later. Secondly, what I would point out, however, are restrictions that are possible but that are not discriminatory. So, for example, you can limit the amount of land you can buy by EU law. You can introduce first-class law for the state, for example. So there are various mechanisms, you can condition by prior approval from the state so that the purchase would not be for speculation purposes, but you can't directly or indirectly discriminate. As far as Ireland is concerned, what you said is possible discrimination, it may be possible for you to mark and it is always possible to mark different products. However, discrimination is not possible, and what you have just said is an example of Ireland and let's buy Croatian, so in the 1980s, the EU court has reached a verdict in the case of... which he has just banned from such practice in the Irish case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So please just stick to the fact that we don't make things up that don't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59361	Thank you. The answer to Mr. Bunjac's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59362	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So if you already like to analyze the facts so much, I didn't say it was high treason anywhere. That's what you heard wrong. The phonogram is, you can check it later than I just said it was about illogicalities. Because if something is declared a strategic interest, then it is our Croatian and no one else's. So you have a choice or a) remove article 3 or selection b) remove article 9. He's in college with each other. Can't something that's of strategic interest at the same time be the subject of sale. And on the other hand, you say that Croatia has taken over international obligations, EU laws, etc., so these laws are not sacred letters, so it is not a god-given thing. Why should we have to implement laws in Croatia that are not harmful to us. I know, you'll say in the European Union we are etc. So let's go, did try to negotiate with the EU. You had those pre-accession negotiations that governments negotiated agriculture, pretty bad. If they're bad negotiators then why don't you try now, don't try to change that thing? It's not that something isn't, that it's something eternal, I don't believe those obligations are eternal. And on the other hand, I'd still like to say that, that every law you bring in here, you're interpreting double. You interpret it one way or another, it's both white and black. The same as GMOs reportedly banned all of this by law, and the sale of GMOs in Croatia is mass. And that's possible with you. It's not a good message to the citizens because that's what confuses people, I think you should more precisely define the concepts, and so in this case that I'm specifically going to repeat one more time, what's strategically not for sale, point, and everything else, all those legal terms that you have, etc. It serves nothing but mutilation of water, confusion of the citizens, and in the end of their deception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59363	Thank you, a lot of time. Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59364	Thank you, dear Vice President. This law in this area will not at present change anything important in the lives of family farms. And what it says is that this is a strategic production unit is good that finally someone realized that OPG is a strategic production unit, because unfortunately here we are discussing many about agriculture, agricultural family economies, and in fact it is something that is some illusion for them, something they have not experienced, they have not seen, and they do not know how this part of production and economy in the Republic of Croatia works at all. Family farms aren't just the ones that produce, they're the keepers of space. Because we see how many people are leaving us and what it looks like to us is a space that remains empty. Because believe that big companies aren't going to do parcels of half a hectare, a hectare of two, it's only going to work for family farms. And that because the family farms are flexible and very easily reorientated in their production they will always manage to survive. Their survival needs to be helped by making this law. It won't close small, these below 3,000 SHO also have the right to support. The support is like 3,000 kuna per hectare, it's not small, it's satisfactory when you see that retirement is 500, 600 kuna, then for some people it's very big money. I think the law should encourage the association of OPGs with small and medium-sized benefits, but normally there are other laws that need to be agreed on, and thus encourage people to survive, and not this law alone. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59365	Replication response, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59366	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So you're right when you say agriculture is a strategic activity. Finally, finally, it is also a government document confirming, I remind you that such strategic documents have already been passed in previous years, unfortunately we do not respect these strategic documents ourselves. Of course, Croatia cannot, therefore, have for strategic resources what it does not have. Can Croatia be a world leader in mining? He can't. In the heavy industry? He can't. Can Croatia live off oil production? He can't, because we just don't have the resources. But we have enough fertile countries and it is a pity and a pity that according to some official statistics, almost half of this fertile country is not functional, and that the number of these agricultural economies of this kind decreases from day to day, so it is reduced. Something went wrong, something went wrong. And you should see what, offer concrete solutions. And you're right, we're getting some kind of cosmetic solution here, some kind of mouse move that basically means nothing to farmers themselves. As far as I'm aware of the opinion of the people working on the OPGs themselves, they'd rather remain this legislation which has been so far than to introduce this new one. This in itself means that these amendments to the law are not successful at least not in this form in which they came to the Assembly. For this reason, I call on the legislator to do a little more analysis and a little more courage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59367	Thank you, too. We're going on with the representatives' clubs. Mr. Vlaovic in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59368	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear state secretary and associate, I welcome you on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. And I want to highlight for many years the Croatian Peasant Party has been talking about the need to adopt this and this kind of law on family agricultural economies because the fact that, together with the stock companies, crafts and other public institutions and businesses, it was unclear what it is and how the Republic of Croatia wants to develop agriculture and where it is the place and role of family farms. And that is why this law is needed and we support both this debate and the desire for it to be read and better and to adopt and define the status of family farms. Because the fact is that our family farms weren't credit-worthy, they weren't market-oriented enough and he did everything he wanted and how he could afford it. For example, all the financial institutions of the Republic of Croatia for them the family holding was unknown... not to say another word. It is hardly that our family agricultural economy could have been credited and gone into some kind of investment while other large corporations of the kind of Agrokor, not that they were getting from the financial institutions of the bank, but also from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and on the other hand they created me to say agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia, because everything that came into agricultural production and all that came to family agricultural holdings were dictated and entry prices, and buying-in models and payment deadlines. And because of their relationship with them, over 50,000 family farms have been blocked. And in the last ten years, we've lost more than 20,000 family economies from the register. And that is why it is necessary to pass this law and this law in order to protect family farms, in order for it to really be if they are, and here in the law to read that they are important for this government and this ministry and to be a strategic part of agricultural production, food production in the Republic of Croatia. But whether this is indeed true and whether it will be so questionable is because much of the agricultural land production resources are not yet operational because the data from the State Statistics and ARCOD Office differ for almost 425 hectares that are not in the system. It is now questionable whether they are processed, whether they are in a gray zone or someone is engaged in agricultural production but is not reporting it, neither in the register nor in the ARCOD for reasons that the existing regulations are not encouraged to include it in this model of direct payments, the register, the ARCOD, etc. There are both, and therefore we expected this law to bring as close as possible to the legal framework of the family agricultural economies that they really are part of the system, to deal with agricultural production, to be sustainable, and not to burden them with any additional, especially not financially burdening them. So here is one of our questions, and the proposal is to consider exactly this threshold of 3 thousand ESOs because the standard of output is not the profit of the family holding, but rather the economic result of the holding calculated on a specific table and that is not the profit of 3 thousand euros, but that is their economic volume of production without cost and investment in production, without production insurance, without pay, without depreciation. And so we think that these 3,000 euros are too small. Especially when, here are my colleagues from the field who told me that he was for example to you. One OPG owner has 4 sterns and it does not exceed 3,000 ESOs of the euro. However, the owner of two dairy cows crosses 3,000 euros. The owner of 4 hectares of corn crosses 3,000 euros in ESO. The owner of one hectare of vegetables crosses 3,000 euros in ESO. The owner of a slightly more than one hectare of olives crosses 3,000 ESO euros. Listing can go on forever. Here are two feeders and two acres of corn also crossing 2,000 ESOs. It wouldn't be a problem if it weren't for Article 23, which says that the OPG holder crossing 3,000 euros is an obligation to pay pension and health insurance. This way these small producers I mentioned will run away from this system whether they will shut down the OPGs or leave agricultural production. We propose to consider this threshold and to go to what we all here advocate to be a sustainable family agricultural economy, to calculate this threshold of rentability that this family holding through its ESO can make such income through its outputs to pay the cost of production, to pay its wages, depreciation and to be able to pay pension and health and other obligations to society. I don't think this threshold will make it possible, that another large part of the family farms that are not in the system will remain outside the system or in the gray zone, or that will further kill the Slavonian village and repack the suitcases and go outside Slavonia and Croatia. It is also questionable that other laws concerning this, which is the Employment Intermediation Act, are then part of the incentive measures for employment where there were no family farms. We welcome, of course, that within your family economy and you can include family and family members in agricultural work without establishing a working relationship. But why shouldn't the family agricultural economy also benefit from encouraging employment measures? I think that's where we have to see with, not part of this law, but we can agree with other ministries to do another reading and we can come up with that and that if you hire someone outside the family on your family holding if you need to give God that there are more such family farms that you can also get encouraging measures to hire a person to the same. It is also questionable and attaining the right to unemployment from the OPG bureau and its wife because in the event of a disease already mentioned by your colleague Lenart, or in the event that agriculture is an additional source of income for you and you work for a certain period of time in a company and you do not have a job, you do not have the right from the Employment Office to receive unemployment benefits because you are the holder of an OPG which has more than 3 ESOs, i.e. 4fts or 2 hectares and 2 hectares of corn. He can't live on it, and he should have rights like other workers who lose their jobs at the Employment Office. Here, we're asking that by the second reading, the possibility of that part being included. Of course, we support further discussion and this section to protect the blocked part of the assets from the implementation of our family farms, because the fact that they are most often stimulated by the ministry, advisory services and others by operating programmes. Their business programmes and investment plans were accepted by both the ministry and the HBOR, and from the advisory service, they received a green light, even from the bank accepted. At the end when the price of milk fell from 4 kuna to 80 kuna, they remained alone on the market, blocked and solutions must be found for them. As for the amendment of the Act on the provision of tourist services to family farms, we certainly support this and this is one of the models to help our family economies place their products on the doorstep. But here I would also like to remind you of this initiative that HSS proposed a few years ago to ensure that with commercial houses, trade chains and hotel houses the placement of new products, because there are models still part of the hotel houses is state-owned and in preparation for the tourist season they ask for support from the Government and the ministries, then it would be their turn to ask for support to have some obligation to consume some of the products from our family farms. We also welcome this initiative which has been passed and introduced, the school fruit scheme we consider to be a network of institutions and institutions that take from our family farms fruit and vegetables and milk not only extend to kindergartens and primary schools but also to secondary schools and other institutions where it is the founder of the government, i.e. the ministry, or regional or local self-government. And that part that is also very important, which is to encourage our family agricultural economies to join, because we are aware that the very small splits themselves cannot survive on the market and that their association with producer organisations and others is necessary. And here is the process, the 2018 budget is planned only 2 million kunas for existing producer organisations, we believe that this is too little and that models should be designed there and through this law how family farms stimulate further integration and strengthening their economic power and market performance. And here, I welcome these discussions that were related to the labelling, branding, licensing of the products of our family economies because this is one way to protect domestic production with the "bought Croatian" we have the "milk from Croatian farms", "between our meadows and Croatian pastures". So we have models we just need to include our family economies in these models and find ways to finance them and, of course, we support all those activities that the ministry has undertaken through inspection and supervision of business chains and imports and we believe that through such types of goods control that come into the market we can protect domestic products but must invest more in inspections and charge more for control of these and at the entrance to Croatia, the minister should not be frightened but should continue with these actions in order to protect our domestic family farms and raise production so that we have sufficient food production in the Republic of Croatia as much as Croatia needs, especially through chance, through tourism. Finally, now our agricultural producers would expect me to say, I've got a new law that will protect me, I've got a euro jack pot, I've solved all my problems, but unfortunately we're not just on track to make that jack pot and realize if we all create these and these laws together, we've brought a strategy for the development of agriculture where the family agricultural economy and food production will really be of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia and all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59369	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Mr. Hajdukovic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I have a lot to agree with you about, and I will use the term used by a former politician but in a very high position – we are on our way with this law, towards the path to solving problems! We just scratched the surface here, that's all. It will depend on the day-to-day steps that the ministry and the government will do whether or not we will come to a solution to all the problems we have. The O.P.G.s are like you said, and I've mentioned it many times, and they have a social element. So, they keep people in the country, people stay on their land, they process them. There is also what is sometimes called the social agricultural economy, therefore, older people whose only source is the most frequent income and who abstain from some of the countries they have. The OPG is very important and what you've noticed, it's a ranking. So what we've suggested, not every OPG can be in the same rank, we have to prescribe what's minimum and what's maximum. Therefore, the OPG is designed to help people carry out agricultural production, but not to grow into OPGs that have 50 hectares. And ultimately product placement combined OPGs are one way. That's absolutely the way to think about it, we're still the hospitality here often prenormated. Because in order to deal with the hospitality that you have to meet, which all the conditions you have to meet, say, if you go west to Paris, London, often you have a catering facility that pours alcoholic beverages doesn't even have a sanitary node. And with us, you have to have six species, separate, like these, like that, especially if you pour certain types of drinks, etc. Finally, product placement should be encouraged to brand, classify OPGs so that they can perform on the market with recognizable products of uniform quality. It's a solution to being as competitive as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59371	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59372	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Hajduković, if you are right, we have only a small scratch, this law is just one stone in the mosaic of the law that needs to be passed in order to improve the state of agriculture in the Croatian agrarian. The lack of these strategies and the development of agriculture as a roof tool to keep these laws, these stones in this mosaic together that they have expensive synergy action in the absence of other institutions and other laws to coordinate with this law on family agricultural holdings will happen that these stones will fall out of mosaics and we will have nothing. And I think it should be our goal all of us to have not 165 thousand family farms but 200 and more, to have residents living in rural areas, to produce food and to live from that production. It won't be settled by this law, it won't be settled by other laws, of course our people are aware that they have to work and produce, they want to. However, they must be created a legal framework so that we can all be equal before the laws that all stakeholders in the law market are equally affected, treated, and not privileged as we had in previous times seen through Agrokor and through other systems that have collapsed and the fact that family farms expect us to advocate the adoption of this law but also try not to bring new administrative and financial burdens for them. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59373	Thank you, too. Here you go, Mrs. Roschcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59374	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Vlaović, it is now, today is a bad time and some farmers are not in the field, they can't really work, I believe they're following us. And one part of the data you have listed regarding the calculation of the SO is correct, but one is also guilty, so let's be careful because for example for different areas of Croatia it counts differently. And we don't need to question farmers by name as much as who has SO when he counts through... The calculator and he are easily available in Excel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 4 sterners in continental Croatia cross 3,000 euros of SO, it's not in Adriatic Croatia either, so I ask you to be careful, not to create confusion and not to confuse them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59375	Thank you, too. Here's your answer, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59376	Thank you, Vice President, thank you, colleague Roscic. Well, I fenced myself from the pay phone because my fieldmates sent it to me. I believe it's the people who do it every day, and they've calculated it well. If they've made a mistake somewhere, I apologize to you and the public, but with these examples, I wanted to point out the problem that we're going to be able to cross these smaller family farms because of our specific type of production of these 3,000 SOs, and on the other hand, they're not going to be in financial position because it's not profit. It's the total output, the economic result of their business. It is not a profit and will not be able to pay both pension and health and will run away from the registration of the OPG especially with everything else, employment restrictions, the application of employment rights, the promotion of employment and the like where you see that there are still a number of problems, and that we are not talking about the market for agricultural products where they are so small subject to a series of pressures from large commercial houses and that they simply will not be able to survive. And our desire is for everyone to work, not to reduce the number of family farms and the number of people living in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59377	Thank you very much. Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59378	Dear colleague Vlaovic, I have two questions for you. The first thing that you think would be useful is that the agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia and not processed is allocated under favourable conditions to natural and legal entities without calling for a reduction in the procedures of those already engaged in agricultural activities and who want to increase their production. And secondly, what do you think rounding small areas would further increase the interest of farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59379	You, too. Mr. Vlaovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59380	Thank you, Vice President. Well, a fellow subject of this law is not a state agricultural land, but here I accept that what as a basic production resource is very important for our family agricultural economies, because our family farms on the ground expect that this law to be passed as soon as possible, that those ten regulations that the minister said were in a high stage of preparation will be completed soon and they know the clear procedures when a tender will be opened, under which conditions, who will have the advantage, and all with the aim of having this family holding to consume, put into function their development, rounding their own property. And not that under some privileged conditions, in strange circumstances, one who has more red tractors and one who is closer to the blue electricity gets that agricultural land, but that really one who needs agricultural land to round up his own property and that those family farms don't feel like politics solves everything. Our place and role is here to pass quality laws, and in implementing that competent institutions enforce laws in a way that everyone has an equal chance of getting to that agricultural land. It's bad here you heard 425 000 ha in the State Statistics Office are not listed in the ARCOD, and in some forms it's agricultural production. What was waiting for that to be arranged? And I hope here's the Secretary of State in his final presentation to tell you when the competition will go first. I remember there was a debate in the first reading for St. Matt's 21.9. I said, God and Holy Mattie, we have the first competition of St. Mattie's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59381	Well, now Mr. Lenart will replicate to Mr. Vlaovic, who sits close to him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59382	Thank you, Vice President. He needs to hear what I'm about to tell him. He can't just walk around whispering like this. A colleague of Vlaovic has touched a lot of pension insurance here and this 300-SO border. My colleague Roscic said it's not the same everywhere, but let's say it's 8000 So. If the family holding has another member and that member is bound by pension and health insurance, I will tell you my example long ago until it was mandatory my family lived out of 5 ha and unfortunately we couldn't pay pension and health because we were building this family economy. And I miss those five years of working hours in my career even though I'm a graduate agronomist engineer. We have another problem. A friend of mine who has an estate of over 100 ha his children went to school, has no one to help him and wants to hire a worker. He wants to give the worker 4,000 kunas of net wages, but gross is 8000 kuna, which is 100 000 kuna at the level of the year. And for a family economy it's a very large amount so that he can pay it off. And he decided he'd go to more of the garages. And what today's support is allowed means that the garage is paid the same as the production. Little family economies can't afford a garage. They have to do production and have to deal with the higher yields in order to make as much money as possible per unit of surface they have. This corner is designed for countes, those who have 200, 500 ha, so now that's what, 50 ha or 100, for the rest you get support and all 5. When it's all summed up a lot of surfaces, lots and lots of money. The national pension when we introduce it for farmers and for the family agricultural economy, to say the lowest pension is 1700 kuna, cannot be below that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59383	Answer. Here you go, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59384	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Lenart, of course, that these 3,000 euros of SO is not a good limit because precisely for reasons of obligation and bearer and his wife or wife and husband, depends on who is the payer of the pension and health care is an additional financial burden and a blow that will not be able to endure with such a small production. And that's why I said to consider defining that sustainability threshold for that family farm. Is that a poverty threshold? According to Eurostat, what, now is about a thousand and 800 kuna per household member. Or it is another parameter we need to agree on and install it by the second reading because the fact with this threshold we will lose still part of the family holdings, we will lose some of the residents in rural areas and we will not achieve the goal that every food producer in the Republic of Croatia is important to us. And that's why I said in the introduction that there is no need for the public ministry to say that a group of 62,000 family farms is being targeted. They are some kind of market-oriented group. But the target group is all family farms and that must be our common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59385	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59386	Here's the vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vlaovic, one important thing you said here. Namely, it's all those milkmen who invested in new farms that were even typical farms, I think 58 milk cows cost 4, 5, 6 million kunas somewhere, now I don't know. And then because of the price of milk, people got into trouble. But what's the problem? We're here at the Executive Law, and we've passed this provision of a safeguard clause so that a certain portion of the salary can't be taken. But that's not the case with them. Those when they're blocked simply all the revenue they get that day for buying milk goes to a blocked account. They even have a protective bill, so I don't know what to preserve whether to preserve the incentive or to keep this income from milk, and that's a big problem. These people once they're blocked, it's almost certain they'll end up so that this farm closes unless someone takes it over. But that's the question now if that family member or the family economy couldn't run that farm, so someone who'd come on the side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59387	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, among these 20 thousand family farms that are no longer in the ARCOD system, many of them are from the dairy and livestock sector, because somewhere over 65% of us lost milk producers in the Republic of Croatia, and largely they have just suffered through operational programmes from one positive measure that the former government and ministries have launched where we stimulated the opening of new farms and milk production in the Republic of Croatia because we did not then have enough milk production in the Republic of Croatia to reduce imports, we have persuaded our fellow citizens to enter these investments, giving them encouragement through the acceptance of their business plans. And strangely enough, I had already warned that neither the ministry nor the competent institutions had responded, immediately the suppliers of equipment and the construction sector raised prices and their equipment and works and thus that what they received through the operational programme a large part had gone to them rather than to the producers themselves. And in particular, we left them alone on the market when the prices of milk fell, when the crisis with the Russian market occurred, with the European Union milk market, there were simply major problems in the sector and they were, of course, closing production, obligations remained and more than 50,000 of them were blocked in this group. Now, how to treat them through this Family Agricultural Economy Act and I myself said the dilemma that the Ministry not only of Agriculture, but also of the Ministry of Finance and other competent authorities must come up with a model that these economic operators, they are there, put into function of production. On the other hand, those members of the family farms return to the business world and that they can live off their work. I hope you find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59389	Thank you very much. And in the end, Mr. Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59390	Thank you very much, Vice President. You told your colleague Vlaović a few magic words about the OPGs, which is a merger, placed in other words infrastructures that will be used for OPG products, and in the end, what we hear very often is tourism. I will say from my experience here is my colleague Majdak, we worked during my term on a project where we wanted through a large hotel house not to advertise it now look at the state of breakfast so with Croatian products in the season. So it was one company in Istria and we recorded the situation in two months. I have to tell you one devastating information about cuisine, salami and these other Croatian products that we like to admire and who are really good and who are competitive on the market that we couldn't satisfy for that house in 3 months' time. I talked to the present and current mayor in Požega because after that, when we received this information on whether it might be possible to organize production, they did not have 20 days to make an offer. The tourist offer must be continuous, it must be quality and must be uniform. So there are problems of association, finding cooperatives that will satisfy the quality of quantity and quality and then we can only then discuss that product in tourism as a quality continuous, continuous offer. Without that, without that infrastructure, we can only talk. It is a complex product that must indeed be a synergy between private producers, the state, using all existing infrastructures in order to reach the ultimate goal and not to be mantra green and blue Croatia, but to be a reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59391	Mr. Vlaovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59392	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Kliman thank you for your replica and I am glad that you have opened this topic and thank you for your initiative and your desire to really help Croatia's agriculture and our family farms to have a placement through the tourism sector for their products. Of course you're right that it doesn't go without association, that it doesn't go without quantity, quality and continuity. Of course, but our family farms also expect on the other hand protection in terms of respecting signed contracts and long-term maturity for these products because it is a fact that, as I initially said because of all these crises and poor management of agricultural policies, they were creditworthy, that they were very difficult to enter into larger investments themselves. So someone was supposed to stand behind them, the net was supposed to organize them and guarantee them the long-term production. There were suggestions that this should also be regulated here in the Croatian Parliament through the integration of the green and blue lines. Unfortunately, the answer was we cannot legally resolve this because the European Union and the European Commission do not allow it. Although we have examples in Spain and Malta where it is similarly governed by such relationships. There are good initiatives from Istria, your head of agriculture often deals with production in Slavonia, this pig for your prosciuttos, and this is one aspect of how private local initiatives can, with the support of regional self-government, connect our family farms with the placement in tourism. But I say I should and I said myself in my presentation and through producer organisations more stimulate our family farms, allow them this financial framework because they will not be able to do it themselves, there you have to agree that they themselves will not be able to organise it for them. You'll say we're going back to some agreed economy, some agreed time. But that's what all the organized states do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59393	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates. It's Mr. Bull's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59394	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, the Secretary-General will assist. Here we are talking today and we have been listening all day to the Proposal for a Law on the Family Agricultural Economy, essentially about the OPG's very important law that puts into one framework of the OPG means which should be essentially an incentive to the OPGs and to help the OPGs know exactly who where to go. But the fact is, and I'm sorry that he's not a minister here, because you secretaries with your assistant all the time are only coming down, and it's so important, and you're not answering the questions that MPs are interested in, because you probably have most of them for this law, and you're less concerned with farmers and those who should hear what's being discussed and what's going to be the brakes of this law. Because I haven't heard from you a single answer to the questions that are at stake in this law, of course, this is the first reading, we believe that until the second reading what the MPs have been saying about this OPG law on family agricultural economies as a very important law. We have not received a number of answers, I hope you will give your answers or perhaps ask the minister, send him a request and let you answer, we do not know what you think about all these legal proposals and amendments to what the MPs have been saying means about all your proposals. Well, here I am, especially as an agent who's been hearing all day about the law that farmers expected for a long time and expected a number of positive effects. Not only have they not received them, but the OPGs will have more cost than benefits, so I would not like this law to be, and your silence to confirm that this is a law to shut down the OPGs or even greater obstacles to the OPGs than they have been so far because the fact and I will repeat not one more of you has been given an answer to us by the MPs. Of course, I repeat, you probably have a majority so you can let this debate go its own way, we expect answers to this important law. I repeat this once again as a representative, I am sorry that he is not a minister here, because he may not think it matters to the parliamentary representatives of this one of the most important laws at all to address and defend this law or to tell us what he thinks about the proposals of the MPs. The fact that I am the key question here is that the OPGs will be able to open up foreigners who will be able to have an OPG with us, that they do not have a residence that we do not think is in the spirit of preserving the traditional form of business in agriculture based on family. So, the very logic that a foreigner who does not have citizenship is not a citizen of the Republic of Croatia to open the OPG in the Republic of Croatia is essentially the next policy of the present. Because we need to know a number of colleagues mentioned before me that the huge subsidies were only going into dairy production so we fell in the last few years, 6,7 years we fell by 64,000 dairy producers to 6,400 while we were only 5 years old it seems to me since 2010. Five billion kunas invested in dairy production, then we had 30% import needs, and now we have 70%. So the next thing you know, it was to move the village out, because this law we're working for? We here basically work for foreign citizens who will have money, because our peasant has moved out of Slavonia. So I'm scared and you're not giving the answers. And I'm afraid because we passed the agricultural land law in 2020 of 1.1. On January 1st, foreigners will be able to buy agricultural land. Then we were giving an amendment on behalf of the Bridge Club to make it simple to prolong it while our OPG peasants in the empty spaces. Because we need to know that 2/3 of Croatia is empty, that this law is being prolonged, because in order for the case of Hungary to happen to us. So when the entire western Hungary, agricultural land was bought by foreigners, foreign citizens, then Orban put an ad act that could not be sold, however, because of the pressure of the European Union he had to call a referendum where the Hungarians supported 86% that the land could not be sold. So, we have now brought into the phase that we have empty Slavonia, Gorski Kotar, Lika, Dalmatian Zagora, now we are passing a law saying that family farms, family economies, can a stranger who does not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia whether it is a family agricultural holding or this is a law on the sale of Croatian remains, the rest. Here we had to protect family farms, and no, we extended to foreign countries that should not even have the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia. We haven't got any answers for that yet. This does not protect family economies, it does not protect the traditional population that has lived there for years, which has been dealing with certain productions, but also this law does not help family economies, but helps foreigners. I ask you, foreign citizens who have neither residence nor citizenship in the Republic of Croatia, so please answer these questions because silence I know you have most, I know that Mr. Kleman will have to vote. He probably wouldn't vote, but he'll have to vote because that's what the party ordered the other deputies to do. Nor would my colleague Culey likely buy our family if they had the right to have primate over our economies. Because we need to know that our farms are empty and that, Mr. Secretary, is not funny. This is a serious question. This directly pleases foreigners for the damage of the traditional local population. I would ask you once again to say that on behalf of the Club and the individual representatives said that this part is changing because foreigners who do not even have citizenship in the Republic of Croatia cannot have OPGs. This is about a family farm, and it's not about a foreign agricultural economy. I ask you to preserve our traditional values of the village, peasants who, unfortunately, so far have threatened agriculture policy. Here's what I can say in this reading. This law may carry out the activities of the OPG means that they have the meaning of members or members of evidence of the right to use space. Now imagine, it's another blow. Do they have licenses in our village for their facilities they use? Do they have a chance? So 90% of urban objects don't have all the permits, let alone have family farms somewhere on the side where people have made temporarily, let alone get those minimum technical conditions to get certain permits. This aims to destroy and prevent the development of the population in rural areas that are fighting for survival. And otherwise, agricultural policies have brought them into this situation. I repeat again, I'm just sorry he's not a minister here, but this is a serious law, serious questions where we have meaning agricultural land, we have a food industry. So we don't need... Food production has conditions, we have water, we have clean air, we have everything to develop agriculture. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I repeat once again we have 2/3 of Croatian blanks. We have a 2020 law. January 1st that foreigners will be able to buy us agricultural land. And of course they'll buy it because it's clean, it's preserved. It's not polluted. And of course it's going to be a blow. It's not like we're making something up, it happened in Hungary not so long ago, and we're all witnessing a referendum called by Orban, and that's when the people told us not to sell agricultural land to foreigners. And finally, there's another overlap where defense cooperatives are also quite active, so we see that those of them who are defenders think we're going to cooperatives, the association can't be in the O.P.G. who owns the farmed land in the O.P.G. can't be in the defense community or vice versa. I think the obstacles are holding you back. Many more obstacles, we have expected many answers here from you secretaries from you and your assistants, except for silence and what you have most of them so far we have received nothing, except what is pleasing to foreigners. Unfortunately, the OPG law favors foreigners and that is not good, and many obstacles that are listed here are hampered. We didn't get an answer. We expect the MPs to respond here. Only if you have a real majority, so you don't need to answer, and you don't care about peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59395	Thank you very much. Mr. Leonard's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59396	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Bulj, I don't think there are any special brakes in this law, because basically this law, the bill confirms what the OPG is today and essentially regulates what is today and how the OPG operates today. As far as the foreigners are concerned, I find that no Swiss, German, Danish, Dutch certainly won't get out of his own orderly country from which he has... support and it will not come to establish OPGs I say to OPG I did not tell the company, company or anything else, but OPGs in the Republic of Croatia in which everything is unsolved and where all of us who are engaged in agriculture i.e. [[You don't understand.]] We're working with the O.P.G. in some kind of zone that we don't know exactly where we are, we're doing our best to figure out how anyone can and can. I think that Croatian agriculture has already been destroyed and that is a fact because unfortunately 2 or 3 products are just enough in production, and we have God-given land. What can't be overstretched can be attacked or something else. We could feed half of Europe. But with my ability, I mean, incompetence, we've led to the fact that agriculture has simply come to a complete end. Despite the operational programmes, despite the large aids that have been invested especially in large companies such as Agrokor, we are in insufficient agricultural production. It's tourism that could spend our food. Unfortunately, however, all these years without taking care of the family economy have not joined together, they have not produced the amount of products they can offer. I'll tell you my example. I make melons very high quality. But every year, two, three tons of melons, I have to throw on the compost because there's no one to buy it, and I'm going to go into production to make it interesting with big chains, they take me two, three deliveries, and then I'm gone. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59397	Thank you. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59398	Thank you very much. My colleague, yes, they all talked about greening, connecting green and blue Croatia, and the only thing that was made was the creation of an empire in shape and similar. So, in the form of Agrokor concerts, which is essentially the entire economic system, and also the agricultural goods took by the neck and the simple little OPGs had choked. So, the combination of green and blue Croatia if we didn't listen to the story of all governments, all campaigns, all previous ones and what happened, we moved green Croatia, and those who would have to create that good that would be sold at sea or in the season on the Adriatic, or went to Ireland or some third country. So, but here we have one key problem. By 2020, Croatia will be able to buy agricultural land to foreigners on January 1st. That's a recent vote, and that's a key problem. You say they won't open the O.P.G. Why won't they open the OPGs? And those who had their grandfathers will be forced to rent that to a foreigner of the OPG or what they will call and dig on their grandfathers to dig for it by a foreign owner. ... Here is a clean country, here we have conditions of organic production and surely that food would not be spent and consumed in Croatia, but in Switzerland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that waste food that is transported through the trade chains is sold in Croatia, where land is poisoned with various pesticides, all of which are toxic, it is a fact and it is proven. Well, that's the question raised in the European Parliament that the food that is a shrimp that is more expensive in our country is the same brand than in the European Union. That's a fact. That's evidence. We must be firm in protecting the strategic resource. It's a country and it protects the OPGs and people in those areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59399	Thank you very much. Mr. Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59400	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, we all know that our OPGs are very small and most of the 165 thousand are small economies. We do not need to be afraid of foreigners who would enter Croatia. God forbid we have as much as we can to invest our money and raise our farm, I'd be a lucky man. Interestingly, there's always talk of what this government has done. And what have the governments done so far? And in this year I'm asking you, so you had the Minister of Agriculture, so you took down the government, so you could do it right and stand by the government and not destroy that system. My only question is how can we get Croatian chains to take Croatian products into their own so they don't throw themselves like melons, watermelons and I don't know and all the other agricultural products that they have to take one part of a set. This is a question perhaps of the Government today how to force them to have as many Croatian products as possible on their shelves as possible in Austria if I'm not lying 60% must be on the shelves of Austrian products. That's the question. And we people who invest if we're afraid of investors, then we really don't know where we're going. We don't even know what we're doing. We're telling populist stories, and in fact, without developed economies, there's no progress. But if you know, Mr. Bull, that there were 100,000 Germans in Slavonia who were expelled, they took away their estates that no one has returned today and God forbid people all return to their hearth and make agriculture like they used to have been destroyed during these 70, 80 years, so to speak, even today. I hope this government has a good project and I can see through this law that there are some improvements. However, I would like only to be freed by small producers from my Slavonia kulen who work to make these minor administrative mistakes, to have little less of the obligations they pay, and thus we will raise everything else, give motives to people to produce and sell their product at their houses or surroundings. I know that the tower cannot be obtained in Slavonia as much as it is sought. We just have to give favors to people and not blackmail through some technology like they have to work as the big economic centers we have. Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59401	Mr. Misic, time is running out. And not just the Germans, I remind you. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59402	Well, you're a colleague of Misic as bearer of the Living Wall list, you're indeed anti-populist-oriented, and I really thank you for this hill and for not enough replicas, but you said foreign citizens. Even the Germans, if they are Croatian citizens, they are Croatian citizens. Italians, Serbs. No one spoke of people with Croatian citizenship. You've broken a little pot. It wasn't me. I was talking about Croatian citizens. And strangers are something else. There's something else for a stranger. So you give your grandfather where you came from to strangers, and I would like our agricultural land to remain in the hands of the Croatian man, Croatian state or private, not foreigners. That's a huge problem. This huge problem occurred in Hungary where foreigners bought the agricultural land of foreign natural and legal persons and all of Western Hungary. That's what I was talking about, and it wouldn't happen again. The fact is that family farms should be protected means our traditional people on the ground where they live in Slavonia and that they produce it, not to be their brakes and help to others. We have too many brakes in this law that we don't have answers to. Legalized facilities. Simply the conditions are not in rural areas. You probably know more, you're like a man who's against populism, and the bearer of the list was the Living Wall. And I really admire to you how much you promote this government and esteeming and esteeming the work and work of the Living Wall for some kind of change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59403	Okay. I'm not allowed to interfere in this, but Mr. Misic seems to have not spoken to me about the German minority at this time in Croatia. He was talking about something else, but I won't interfere, I can't. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59404	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bull, may I once again clarify this claim, and in the end you have brought forth, it is not disputed, it is not xenophobia, so it is not a problem for a stranger to come, let him live here, let him live, let him have a place to live, and let him establish an O.P.G. If he's going to live further in Austria or anywhere, so let him if he has that land if he buys it, even if it's not good, I don't think it makes sense to start an O.P.G., start a D.O.O., anything else, a agricultural economy, but it can't be an O.P.G. because by that logic, the cotton plantations on which the slaves worked were O.G.s. That's not it, that's not the spirit of this law to be warned about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59405	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull give the answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59406	Absolutely no xenophobia, but what every country should protect is its own strategic resources. And this law needs O.P.G.s. And it threatens that someone who will live in a third country, a stranger, is not a Croatian citizen who opens up the OPG and has a gain is interested in producing organic food if the Croatian state has developed Todorovic, Agrokor and similar to him, not small peasants. All the incentives given to agriculture mostly went to Todorovic and similar, so that's a familiar thing we don't need to talk about at all. Of course he appointed ministers, he had a judicial system set of systems he was on the side of these people, against the peasants. And now that this peasant who's been doing tradition for centuries has been working for generations on agricultural production has now moved out and now we have this law with the law on... selling where the possibility is opened from 2020 to the foreigners of agricultural land to this law to allow foreigners. I am not telling national minorities what my colleague Misic thought but foreigners, it is allowed to open without citizenship, without a place of residence. He can live in Sweden, a stranger never comes to open the OPG and use our good at the expense of those people who will be his hired workers, that's the problem Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59407	Thank you very much. Mr. Kleman's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59408	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, here's the way you called me, so I'm gonna take a little polymize with you. Look, you know that old saying that God created the earth for the living, not for the ones that are not there. Unfortunately, we have parts of Croatia that are devastationed, people have gone what is said by the belly after bread from various motives, and this situation is certainly demanding for the state and should think about the models of how to bring these people back and give them the chance to live as their own. But I highly doubt that in the near future we will find the right directional models to return them to their hearths. It's just the situation, that's the environment where people went. As far as foreigners are concerned, if foreigners come, if they buy some real estate and if they do not join together and if they do not know how to place their product on the Croatian and European markets, they will have to go again because the key is all the good organisation of both the current OPGs and the future OPGs that they can organize themselves and that they can offer their products on the market. Without it, this is just one form to keep that question, to keep a piece of land, but not to make a quality living out of it, and to make it a prosperous tool for people to live out of it in quality, both they and their families. So again I say and repeat what I said before, organising, joining and placement of quality Croatian products is the key to survival on the OPGs and survival in the country. We have a big situation in Croatia that we have two Croatians, one continental, one Adriatic, in this Adriatic part, I assure you I come from the most prosperous Croatian region, a lot of foreigners bought real estate in Istria, a lot of foreigners, and again we believe that it is the same Croatian country. We have very nice examples where they give their example a good framework for working in Croatia, pay taxes here, and we don't really feel like they've alienated anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59409	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull give the answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59410	Comrade Kleman, you're talking about real estate... No, no agricultural land is very important. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I repeat the state, which has conditions for food production, water, air and energy is a rich country. And nobody argues here that I spoke against foreigners and xenophobia is the fact that now that we literally have empty Slavonia and other parts of Croatia, this law allows not only these, but also the sale of land, that foreigners can buy agricultural land. I think they have good old Croatian proverbs, because we're too much under promises, stars coming into the EU where we're going to flower, unfortunately it fell in the opposite direction, so now our children are going to other countries, and here they remain empty countries, "Don't alienate the wilderness without great needs" or don't sell grandfatherland without great needs. Our policies in this House have sold our work and interests both on the Adriatic, on our sea, in our waters, Croatian waters will now be on land. If this doesn't change, you'll be witnesses, we'll be sitting together in Parliament or out of Parliament, but we'll hear from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59411	Thank you very much. And in the end, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, I must say that I agree with your majority of your debate especially when you have touched a very important issue and the impact of the food industry and agricultural products. And why didn't I experience that you... in some kind of party, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because we know that in today's market, the food market is the most important market. Perhaps with a banking market where we know that billions of people are turning around that the food market is, in fact, the food market and the product market is actually the most important market and that is actually the national, certain national policies. So we ask ourselves questions, and behind this law a very important law, the law on unfair commercial practice in the food supply chain that I think is a very important law which may not know whether or not it is linked to this law and that it should be the whole of one law. That's what Mr. Kleman was talking about. It means for free that you have all that production and input costs if you have one unfair commercial policy relative to the placements of these products. And now the question arises if foreigners come to place some products, I must admit that it was also very strange for me, and you have well guessed about the quality of food that comes to the Croatian market, how someone, I don't know in France or some other countries, Germany or some other countries produce a particular food product, I don't know how many hundreds of kilometers and then comes to Croatia, on Croatian shelves it costs kuna. And then the question arises whether there are certain hidden support behind it, and when, then we are not against foreign products coming to Croatia but we want to have control, means quality. And the question arises if we are on a single European market how can these foreign products not sell Croatian products in Germany? And then if he existed in that part, then there's no problem with him coming to $4 million on the market for $4 million. But if we are allowed to allow Croatian OPGs to come to the market of 500 million inhabitants and that through these very foreign trade chains that are in Croatia, we have an inverse policy, so that our own products can be placed abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59413	Thank you very much, Mr. Lalovac. Answer? No, I don't. Yeah? Was there an answer? I see you're sitting still, so I thought you wouldn't. Thank you. No, no, I thought you didn't get up right away, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59414	Comrade Lalovec, I agree that... interest but the fact is that all you've listed is that the Croatian market has been re-recasted to excessive products of poorer quality, the same stamps as in other countries, and this has even been proven so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no control, the import lobby has done and, of course, the food that comes to our departures is essentially directly affecting the less need and demand for domestic products and it's targeted, so it's targeted, it didn't fall from Mars. So targeted, directly from the executive authorities that are obliged to control and all institutions, to control that food must not be on the market, bad food because the need for domestic production ceases. And that's one plus one. It's not a tribune at all. And it's an interest to keep it safe. Which is why now in Hungary, Hungary has protected the agricultural land with the Constitution. It is the same EU member. Why don't we protect the water sources? We have that right. It's a resource strategic, we can protect it as agricultural land. So we can't, here we also have an economic belt on the Adriatic where fish hunt foreign fleets and that's part of the food production. Hunting and selling on our market the fish they caught in our sea, in our waters, means territorial waters. So we destroyed fishing, destroyed agriculture. Therefore, even now we are giving them land and this law allows a citizen, a foreign citizen without residence, to even open the OPG. I mean, really funny! Erase this, take it off however you know. And I'm sorry that he wasn't a minister, I'm sorry that the secretary because they have most of the answers but not for us, but for the protection of the peasants. Without a rich peasant, there's no rich country. That's a fact. And I'm sorry that here at the ministry we don't have any answers, just that AIDS, they have most of them. And I'm sorry the minister didn't come here to talk about this serious law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59415	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debates. Mr. Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59416	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's what I'm going to try to do in a brief discussion, once again, to touch the most important points regarding the objections to this law. But before I say the remarks should always be said, to commend that I myself have waited for this law and it is a very brave and bold step of the ministry under this law. However, since it is a very important law, as far as this law seems to us now, it can shape a picture of Croatia tomorrow. If we drive through Austria we see beautiful agricultural areas processed, decorated. If we drive through Croatia today, we see something else, not in most cases, but in some areas, it has indeed relaxed the land, which is devastated and which could be a significant source of food. In this sense, this law is significant and it has a lot of good provisions, but what we have warned is about an important law, which we have warned I will now point out again. But before I forget, just because a respected secretary of state came along at the end of the debate as to how this discrepancy between the data might be happening, it says that there are 165,000 family holdings in the register. And if you go to the pages of the FINA, then you see that 8238 of the OPG has one or two accounts reported, and all according to their data is 896 blocked OPGs with about 412 million kunas. As it is, they explain something that is related to the State Statistics Institute and their home number. But if a respected secretary of state can explain how it actually gets data on how many family farms are blocked today. Because my colleague Vlaovic presented a 50,000-dollar piece of information that I understood. It's not a small number. It seems to me that even if that's true, then we're in big trouble. But let's go back to a few of these points that we have here, colleague Panenic, in the debate, my colleagues in replicas that we have highlighted as controversial in this law. So, once again about strangers. We're not the only ones, be careful who want to protect this. And other countries in the environment do the same thing, and they protect their agricultural land, they protect those resources. So if we install that provision that a foreigner who does not have a residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia cannot establish a family agricultural holding, that does not mean that he cannot start a farm, but we have already done something family. As regards the use of the OPG space of those additional costs that we impose in terms of the fact of the legalisation of objects, the existence of various atheists, in order for its space to have minimum technical conditions, these are nevertheless additional impositions. And there you should actually see how many family farms will have additional costs, or simply to set that provision for all future newly developed facilities, which must then meet the minimum technical conditions. If that didn't happen, man had to build a fan with an atom somewhere in some space, which he's been using for a very long time, there's never been a problem. It has been warned that the law states that the OPG holder must be a full-time and business capable person. Once again, I point out that many defenders do not have business ability, or are partly businessable. So what we need to see in this is that it's not really understood that defenders who now have family farms have to shut them down. As far as the company's name is concerned, here we suggest, it's an additional cost to the OPG, perhaps the intensity of the OPG being recognizable, to make it easier for its product to brand, everything, then let's leave the possibility, to be voluntary. That whoever wants to have the name of the company, to protect him, to brand him, and one who can't, can move on, as a natural person, do business under his name and name. Once again, regarding the holder of the holding, why limit, that one household, may have one OPG holder, primarily with that, which then and all, regardless of what he has and one holder, but all other are solid guarantees, they mean if they have a certain land, they enter the OPG together they guarantee for the business of this holder, he has an account, a card. So, they answer, though, I say, again it's about fathers, sons, brothers and sisters, but be careful with this law you enter into a family relationship, which in my opinion is not good. And the provision that all those companies that have listed agriculture and forestry, that the owners or members of the management of these companies cannot be engaged, cannot have a family holding can lead to many family farms being put out, and it seems to me for no reason, why couldn't a foresteer be a good winemaker? Here, that's one of the key questions. I hope that in this brief debate I have touched these important grudges, I am convinced that we will come to a better quality solution in the second reading, so that it will be for the benefit of the family agricultural economy and ultimately Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59417	We have several replicas, the first Mr. Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, again on the same subject, I just didn't realize until the end what was the position of my fellow bridge teammates. So, Mr Bulj, he believes that full ownership of EU citizens, agricultural land, should be banned after the moratorium expires, and you are for some minor variant. So I just can't own the O.P.G., if I get it right, I'm not sure now. What I would point out, however, is that again, it is a famous EU law, in which we are, prohibits direct discrimination in any case. The sayings are, if you justify it to the public interests. But here you need to prove, which public interest you're protecting, by prohibiting a stranger from owning an O.P.G. or land. But then that should be explained, that's not very easy. Otherwise, you risk punishment by the European Commission, which can then go before the EU court and then end up with great penalties. And it wasn't just happening, it wasn't only happening in smaller countries, or poor like Croatia, it was one, in the case of Denmark, when Denmark had a similar provision restricting the ownership of agricultural land to foreigners, and then in the case of... The court ruled that Denmark violated European law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happens to Hungary, we'll see. Another thing I'd like to point out, as far as the general story of a land injury is concerned, I'm sorry Mr. Bulja isn't here. We had a similar conversation there when there was a referendum on the EU. So we had the whole campaign that said that foreigners would push, buy, the most valuable land, agricultural land to be taken, etc. From what I've seen, they're corners. It didn't happen. What happened, that some quality properties were purchased, for example in Dubrovnik, Split, etc. But that's what people sold voluntarily and very well earned. Some have solved three generations of their family that way. So I don't know, how do we protect people from ourselves? If no one in Croatia will want to sell, then there will be no problem. But there's a reason why people sell and find some interest in it. What you would conclude in the end, as Mr. Kleman said, I think we will contribute more to our agriculture and to our farmers, to strengthen our space and allow them to be competitive, than to prohibit someone else from coming here, and so we will not solve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59419	Thank you very much. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59420	Dear fellow Sokol, I agree with you that this is a very serious matter, it is not so easy to resolve. However, even when we talked about the Agricultural Land Act, I don't know if he was a minister then, I don't remember him anymore, he was a minister, so in a way we got, let's say, a conditional promise, that by 2020, when the moratorium for selling the country, we'd find some mechanisms to sort it out. Some countries, Great Britain, I think the stranger there can buy this land, but after some time, he stops being the owner. I think with one setting, but it's certainly not easy, we can handle it. In that sense, when we talk about agricultural land, and when we talk about the family agricultural economy, maybe I do, I may have a problem in understanding actually makes sense to the family agricultural economy. I understand you exclusively, although the intensity, is that the family's agricultural economies are competitive, I take it more as a preservation of Croatian survival, actually Croatian villages. When I say Croatian villages, then I really mean Croatian survival. We have urbanization, a very high degree of urbanization, but we are failing what to say to our cereal, what feeds us. And that's why I think the man who lives in that place should be the bearer of the family farm. Someone on the side, it's not that spirit, let's start a farm, set up a d.o.o. but then let it deal with agriculture as a corporate activity, not as a family agricultural economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59421	Thank you very much. Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59422	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Zhagar, of course, that question about the very availability of land still has one difference to this law. In fact, we are not even coming here to manage the land, but to be able to set up an OPG and to have a place in another EU member state. So we didn't put it in the context of us, of our village at all, because we would all be glad that some stranger with his family wants to come to Croatia, settle any of those places where people move to base their activities there and then the OPG gets meaning. But in a situation where someone can remotely, from another country here to have an O.P.G., then I just don't see the point, they can have a company there. Because we're supposed to move out of Croatia, live in Germany, Ireland and other countries and here we're starting the OPG, and the family's not there, but we're there. Looks like that's how it's gonna end, so we're all gonna have remote O.P.G.s. There won't be an O.P.G. but... I simply have to enter into this debate that is more difficult to get into, so it is not respect for the right because it turns out in the end that we are the only suckers and all other countries are trying to put pressure on the EU as such and already being considered through the EU course means that the land as one of the key resources has problems, that speculators appear to us, traders who can buy these resources now and manage development and ultimately raise the price of rent. [[The speaker doesn't understand-]] Because, in fact, agricultural land is a key price, which is the lower price of rent so that it can generate sufficient income. So the stranger will have no understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59423	Mr. Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59424	A very short answer to my colleague Panenic, he says a folk proverb, I have to paraphrasise her, you can't live in Austria and ask God to rain in Croatia, it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59425	Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59426	Your Honor, Vice President. Here's my colleague, Sagar, I don't think this law is enough to save the O.P.G. Because it's not his domain, its domain is the definition of the O.P.G. I believe that the Minister of Agriculture must sit down with his finance colleagues, from the economy, those who have a ministry in which the authority is pension and health insurance and that all together must make and adapt their laws to survive the OPG because not one single law from the farm portfolio is enough to save what is now obvious, falling and disappearing and disappearing. I think all possible aid to the OPGs that the state can provide is the last moment that it provides, to bear the burden, because there is no longer time to calculate no matter who is in power. I think we need to come to some consensus here on how to save these OPGs that disappear especially from the dairy sector and that the state must not fear this rich peasant because he spends in the Republic of Croatia, encourages the economy, many jobs are to serve family economies and agricultural production. As for the purchase of land, I am more than afraid that someone will buy companies from Agrokor system that owns land, not only state agricultural land that they have in concession or leased, but they have bought in history and have a certain amount of agricultural land in their possession. I think that way, far more land will go into the hands of foreigners than by setting up the O.P.G. Let the Germans come to us here with their families, maybe they'll teach us something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59427	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59428	Thank you. Dear colleague, I agree with you, therefore, if the OPG law has the intensities to define the agricultural economy, however, it is not that easy, it is not that simple. I don't know, let the secretary of state tell us how many countries did it, legally how many did it. I think it's a very small number. But what I agree with you, that all the institutions, from the Tax Administration, of the FINA, I don't know who everyone should not include that we know the exact picture of the OPGs in Croatia, how many of them are active. We probably have a lot of O.P.G.s that haven't been in office for over two years because maybe people don't decide to delete those because it's also paid, delete the records is paid the same. So, in order to have a clear picture of what happens to the OPGs in Croatia and what steps we can take, but believe that this law is very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59429	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59430	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Žagar, I agree with your debate, I agree with the fact that today we had a good law as necessary, to which we presented criticisms, proposals, solutions, I agree with all discussions. However, I don't know if you agree, but I can't agree with the fact that the Ministry's representative, Mr. Secretary of State, is sitting here from 9:30 and has not responded to a single reply. Moreover, here's a minute and he pulled his finals on behalf of the promoter, so here I don't know if it's normal for you because it's not normal for me, I don't understand how Mr. Secretary of State can sit at all between 9 and 30 and deliberately not answer all the questions that we have. It is not clear to me whether he realizes that he came here to the Parliament to propose the law that we are discussing, which we have questions for which we are asking him questions, he is not answering, nor to deny us in anything that we have discussed today. Well, it's not clear to me if the secretary of state is aware that he's actually telling his behavior that he's also come to the assembly or bought a ticket and sat down in the theater. And I'm asking him to go to the theater next time so he doesn't make a fool out of us. So you from 9:30 sit here, it didn't occur to you to answer any of our lines today. Are you ashamed? I'm asking Mr. Zever if he's okay with it. [[Excuse me, who are you replicating?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59431	Thank you. Okay, yeah, she's fine, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59432	Well, I, I don't know, I'd die of shame sitting here all day and not answering a single question, watch out for the MPs I'm coming to propose this law. I don't know if there's still such a shame in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59433	Here's your answer, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59434	Thank you, thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lesandric, so I, Mr Majdak, and I personally know and I don't think it's his business, it's not his, it's not his question to say his courtesy or rudeness, as you said, but it's the one who sent him here, so the minister. The minister was supposed to come here and answer questions. If Mr. Majdak doesn't want to be a secretary of state, then there's probably a guide. And now we're going back to that part of the story from last week. Look, we're having a debate here in the assembly. On one occasion, I was warned by my colleague Hrelja that there was a need to speak professionally about topics. We're not an expert body, we're not an expert commission, we're a political body. And the people here sent us to talk and we need to. The only thing an agent can talk about is. If we're told here by the government's representatives, and it was the prime minister, that our debate is the bottom of the bottom, and then how come he's the one that depends on the bottom? He's addicted to us. So is he "Snive Bob Jumped"? You see, it's not, we're in a situation now to make fun of those who depend on us and don't want to work here. So I believe that your replica goes in that direction that he should be here today as minister and he answers replicas and questions and clarify his views on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59435	Thank you very much. And finally Mr. Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59436	Thank you, Vice President, Comrade Sagar. The president of the Republic of Croatia says that time is extraordinary in Croatia, that is, some ministers say that time is challenging, a colleague says that this is a theatre of absurdity, but above all, the fact is that our farmers expect a lot from both this law and us. And I agree with you that the minister should be here today because the fact is that this is one of the most important agriculture laws where we expect to get answers. And none of us discussed going with some criticism, rather than passing as high-quality law as possible, or repairing these misunderstandings that we haven't yet received answers to until the second reading. One of the topics you mentioned was state agricultural land. Our exposure was, it was good that we succeeded in not having seven years since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, selling countries to foreigners for a further plus 3 years if we explain our reasons in quality. One of the reasons why we should certainly tell the Minister and well that the Secretary of State is here, is precisely this state of our family agricultural holdings that out of 180 and several thousand registered in the register we now have 165, that over 65% of these family economies have stopped dealing with the production of milk because it was not economically profitable and sustainable and 50,000 blocked family holdings, that these are reasons why we still do not have the strength of the family farms and have not yet arrived through it or round up their property to be competitive on that European market. And that's why this law should, I agree with you that it still needs to be fixed and that surely the minister and you must be involved together because I see that almost everyone who has discussed it has replicated it and I believe that you have read it from paragraph to paragraph. And I think we deserve it then that once the MPs already try to read the law and replicate it to get answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59437	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59438	Thank you, Vice President. We are parliamentary representatives in such a situation that we get one material and then we have to discuss it. Even then, the chairman can warn us if we go outside the box. Let's say this legal proposal, did you notice in this legal proposal of the unit of local self-government? They don't mention each other anywhere. There is still room for us to advance and to improve this must be a dialogue between us, us and the ministry. That's why I'm saying, he was supposed to be a minister here and he was gonna answer questions. Croatia's agriculture has serious problems, you probably remember the procedures of the arondation, the compositions that were made when the big peaks were created. Do you know how many countries have actually passed the measurement? We have a lot of unresolved property legal relations on our agricultural land. We have situations that even people when the country is turned into building land that they're not even, that they have their own houses that aren't on their own plots. There's a lot going on in the field. When we had the records, when the units of local self-government, when they were building up a program of availability, people were signing up, when the ARCOD came in, they were looking for contract annexes because they actually saw that they were paying rent now and they didn't get the land and incentives. The Ministry has a lot of work to do to bring order. And I think this law can put order in family farms to be family farms because of this law is better and then better for all of us if it works out. However, there is a need for dialogue between representatives and representatives of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59439	Thank you very much, Mr. Sagar. And now we have a closing word on behalf of the Most Independent Lists, Mr. Bull, five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59440	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary with the assistant. Here from 10 hours to now we have a total of around 6.5, 7 hours being debated about a very important Family Agricultural Economy Act where farmers expect answers to the enquiries and ambiguities of this law. But neither did the minister come to this important, expected law that has been mentioned for years and the secretary and assistant have not spoken the letters on numerous queries. You can replicate to me now, all of you, but we didn't get a single answer. This is the first reading, this is the first reading, in this reading we have given all the enquiries to explain the ambiguity. [[Intruder Radin: Please don't invite everyone to replicate.]] And I can see that the secretary didn't even sign up in final exposure to answer these questions. If this debate was unnecessary, if you have a secure majority, so it's not only a problem here to have a majority, come here to sit down and not listen to the questions of the MPs and not give them answers or maybe at least to behave and say here we'll look at it, we'll see in another reading what it will be, and you'll have the possibility of an amendment, but not a letter in seven hours of debate about the OPGs, a very important law which is a demographic law. The state of emergency was said by the President of the Republic, mainly in rural areas, two-thirds of Croatia are empty. We won't talk about how the farmers and the OPGs were destroyed, the funds that were supposed to go to the OPGs went to Todorovic and similar, that's a fact, and now we don't have an answer for us because of the farmers. If you've got most of them, then you haven't even come here unless you answer, Mr. Secretary. I ask you once again, if you have written, I can repeat all the questions regarding the councilman's club, answer these questions, these ambiguities that we know how we're going to proceed and talk to the people who asked us a question, means the owners of the O.P.G. who have difficulties. This debate was constructive, we don't have the right to propose amendments here, this is the first reading. It is in the interest of this debate to jointly pass a good law that will be the best for people who have their OPGs, families who hope to survive in these areas. Now remember a story about how the foreign producers had been destroyed just before, foreign products, I remember 15 years ago in the chain of commerce, there came a lamb from New Zealand, frozen in the value of a kilo of 13 kuna, waiting for order for it, 13 kuna, and while the domestic lamb of course is 70 kuna, Dalmatian. And of course that New Zealand lamb destroyed our producers. Our cattlemen because they couldn't sell their lambs. And this is just an example of how the destroyed Croatian peasant is easier to buy the pensioner for 13 kuna frozen lamb from New Zealand forced, only transport was more expensive and questionable quality. And so the Croatian peasant was destroyed, no more cattlemen's production, no more lamb, no more veal, absolutely nothing. And by this law, farmers and the OPGs expect you to answer these questions, these enquiries have become the owners of the OPGs who fight to survive in this area, the distinguished secretaries. Here's some more time, I'll stick around to sign up for the closing speech. I beg you on behalf of the manufacturer, not on behalf of the parliamentary representatives, I know that you have a majority, but answer these questions and these ambiguities on behalf of the people who have sent letters with whom I have spoken, but when the minister has not agreed to come and talk about this law and answer the seven-hour debate to answer these questions, that the answers may be wrong or really no point in this debate, you will pass the law in the way that suits you. This parliament really, as the prime minister said, thinks this is the bottom of the bottom, I think this is the center of decision-making. The people elect parliamentary deputies they would like to be bottom, and your secretaries' behaviour is not good to these MPs. Once again on behalf of the farmers on behalf of the people who expect answers to these questions come up you still have seven seconds, sign up and respond to the MPs to your draft law on the ambiguities that have been presented, here's only on behalf of the Most Club and other clubs, if not then there's no point in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59441	Thank you, too. We have five replicas. First Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Vice President, you didn't give me a replica last time, although I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59443	How, how do you forgive me?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59444	I'm running out of time. Mr. Bulj, you and your former minister participated in the creation of this law, you had a chance to tell everything about him, you're nothing, you're now the greatest critics. You deceive the public with lies, you tell facts that aren't true. Is someone normal, Mr. Bulj, listen to me, is there anyone normal in this assembly that would be for foreign sales of Croatian land? Nobody. We were, the first on that I've said a hundred times that we need to extend the moratorium for the sale of state land, there's no one in this world who can ban the sale of private land. Mr Bulj, you know that these provisions that you are now saying are being put into law already exist in the law that EU citizens, if they have production resources, can be entered in the register of farmers and entered in the OPG register. You're not listening to me, Mr. Bull, and then you'll be replicating me. By joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia has taken over the EU acquis that enables such activities, so this law does not bring any news. Furthermore, who forbids a stranger to establish a D.O.O. or d.d. In case we can and may not enroll in the O.P.G. You know very well that what you're saying is not true. All this is done on the basis of reciprocity in the EU, and I am not sure that now the EU farmers in Croatia will pile up and buy two, three hectares of the Croatian country and open the OPGs here. It must be a lot more logical then to open up the D.O.S. and open up companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59445	Thank you. Mr. Bull gives the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59446	Did you tell your colleague that this law was written in the time of Minister Romic or? I don't know what you're replicating me, I'm the misunderstanding I got from the people of the O.P.G., from the people who own the O.P.G., people asked me questions as a representative, and I asked questions, unfortunately I didn't get answers. I know that you say publicly, we will protect the agricultural land from being foreign owners, but the fact that in the first reading on agricultural land has been sent into law means the proposal that agricultural land from 1.1.2020 will be able to buy to foreigners. That's true and it's debated here and it's indicated. We expect that it will not be so and that it will be a protected land, i.e. agricultural land. That's what made other countries. The constitution protected their water resources, the air, and we have the right to do so. And there's nothing to be ashamed of. As far as I'm concerned, I'm making things up. Well, I only asked the first reading, so do we have the right to ask what the law says? You'd ban it on us, too! I know you have a majority, but you, as Parliament's attorney, should tell the secretary, the minister, so come out, answer these questions. And we're home regardless of the majority, the minority, it doesn't matter. He must answer these questions not because of me, but because of the people who are expecting this law. And many send enquiries to the parliamentary deputies, and we turn that into questions and ambiguities to explain themselves to us. There's still time for the secretary's replicas to come out and get these questions that last eight hours to answer us. We're not looking for anything anymore, nothing more or less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59447	Thank you very much. Mr. Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Križanić's said a lot, but what I would point out are important shades. So one question of state agricultural land, another question of private. One question is moratoria and its extension, and the other is what will be later. I agree with my colleague Krizanic that this moratorium, that there is a need to negotiate and that there are a lot of negotiations then possible. As for land in general. So, the possibility of buying land in Croatia's real estate has existed since 2009 whether or not based on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and before that, foreigners, or EU citizens, and others liked to buy it this way. It means they're buying D.O.O. who owns some land in Croatia. However, I would also go back to what my colleague Sagar said, which is that there are various possibilities. So there are. What matters is, it's not direct discrimination. For example, the practice of the European Court recognises the possibility, as recognised by the European Commission, to limit, for example, the amount of land that can be purchased. So you can do that. So you can't tell strangers, but you can limit the amount of land. You can prescribe first purchase rights for co-owners, neighbors, cooperatives, etc. etc. So the possibilities exist, but there should be subtle and be smart, and not go against something, against the European Commission to get a sentence and then actually delegate the whole story you're doing. That's what we need a professional debate to do, not a mind-beating, let's just say it like that. And as for the EU-level initiative, it is again the third level. So one question is the adoption of national legislation that must be in line with existing European legislation. And yet the second issue of the European-level initiative is that some things, some exceptions, are granted. And there should be a clear distinction and therefore I believe the Croatian government will be active in European bodies to find the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59449	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59450	It was not just a matter of possible establishment in this law of colleagues that foreigners without residence in Croatia could open the OPGs and we did not get an answer to these inexplicables. Here and other questions have been raised on defence cooperatives, association i.e. the cooperative, the OPG, whether or not the land that has been introduced into the OPG is affected by whether cooperatives and a number of other issues to which we have not received an answer. The key question here is why this important law is not a minister, whether it really has an important justification. If the secretary's already here, why doesn't he answer our questions? Here's a key question, and you as a parliamentary representative would also be interested in a man who, the people who run the ministry, answers these questions. We did, when we had the pre-accession negotiations here with the EU, the least we could do was go public and there was a debate on agricultural land, on the conditions of agricultural development, on the economic belt. There were a number of misunderstandings. And today we have a problem, I will repeat it to you that we have no fishermen or peasants, very few peasants and no fishermen literally. In our Adriatic Sea, foreign fleets hunt in our waters the fish they eventually sell to the tourist season in Croatia. And they have profits, not us, Croatia. This is true for you, and you can easily check this out. And not just what they hunt for fish, but what they destroy. But that's because we were entering the EU what was unanimously supported here and in fact there was no telling what to sign, who to sign, under what conditions. We had to, here today is the day General Gotovina and Markac were released, we had to arrest, locate, transfer, process, process, rob, survey, give to INA, do all kinds of things and most prominent sons to join the EU. It wasn't the way and the way. We're in Europe. We have to be nice to our neighbors, but it wasn't the way or the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59451	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59452	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bulj, I can only repeat that this is a disgrace, brazen, rude and irresponsible to come here to the Croatian Parliament, 7 hours, 6 hours already, all day long in a single reply, not a single word on behalf of the promoter. Well, in fact, only two options are being imposed here, and one is that ministry representatives have come here deliberately to underestimate parliamentary representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which I do not want to believe. And the second is that, in fact, all the criticisms and suggestions for solutions that the opposition has given are correct and correct, so then you don't really have other options than to shut up or tell the opposition you know everything stands, you're all right, we'll have to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59453	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59454	Thank you very much. My colleagues, I would agree that no one is against the law, we're all talking about the law, about the OPGs and the three legal frameworks. However, in this debate we have asked a number of questions. I hope that colleagues from both left and right expect answers in a certain first reading, so at least minimal answers or at least say thank you nicely, it's good that you've made these suggestions, we'll consider suggestions or we'll say there's some uncertainty we'll have conversations. However, no answer. But not because of us MPs, because this House is a representative of the people, this is what the representatives of the people are in. However, it wants to aimly offend Parliament, aimed. That's right, those words were deliberately sent, and in fact, those who were executives, therefore, came out of parliament, so that they could do whatever they wanted. That they can continue to be courted by Brussels officials, that they can be portrayed in light as pro-European politicians, but only to reach tomorrow's level and be council presidents headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic and the rest of the European Council. And apparently their interest in MPs, who are asking questions, constructive questions, asking for answers, asking for the law, not criticising the law, in the sense that they don't need the law, but simply looking for questions and answers, people who have OPGs, very important law and demographic law. And therefore one of the messages of the President of the Republic was, which also came from HDZ, their candidate, that the country is in a state of emergency, and also because of agriculture and the CAP and the Land Act of Agriculture, a number of other laws that arise, however, it is obviously important to implement this law, in this way, not to respond to farmers, for what? I don't know, there's still time for the secretary to sign up and give us answers to these questions, to us at the Mosta Club, and to the other MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59455	Thank you very much. Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59456	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bull. Here we go to the end of today's debate, I think that patience has slowly come to an end. We see that the debate from the constructive one, now slowly comes that they are irritated by MPs and it feels. What I have to say means that our questions, it certainly gives an answer or at least a comment, which would be positive, negative, would actually direct our efforts in further suggestions for improvement. In this way, we can expect the promoter to have heard what we had to say, so here, we emphasized your exposure, so that by the time we finally read it, we would have a report. But most are hard to fight. Here, I can only assume, that fellow Sokol, he will probably be one day a Croatian diameter. Because we see that European law knows so well, it bombes us all that the EU imposes, so probably in the next European Parliament elections, it will be high on the HDZ list, it will enter the European Parliament, and that means one day, it will come back as a diameter. Unfortunately, the two of us here, we are peasants, and they are Europeans there, we are actually fighting for what the village wants to hear, and on the other hand, the European Commission, it has other plans, but we can say that we do not need the help of the European Commission, to give us through the programme and development, but to ensure our own income. And one day we'll get into a situation, there won't be such a generous help, we'll have to rely, on our resources, on our incomes, on the incomes of family farms, and then someone will call out, unfortunately, us, because we've been sitting in a meeting, where most of us, who we haven't been, are the individual provisions of the law that we've all been expecting, blamed for other people, not family farms, for which we fight and ask all these questions. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59457	Thank you. In the end, Mr. Sagar. ... The answer to forgive, yes, yes, you're right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59458	My colleague Panenic, I agree that in the last phase, there has been an unexpected one. We expected after a constructive debate, which lasted for a long time, 6-7 hours, we expected answers, not silence. I believe that this law, not to quote European laws, as a colleague earlier, has given a replica, but it is obviously more important to them than the people say. They are happy to see Brussels, but we are those who are interested in this law, through, we are representatives of those who are interested. And it's our right to ask these questions. Not destructively, not insulting, but constructively asking questions, to explain himself. But aside from a couple of smiles, on our speeches, from the representatives, the promoters, I got nothing else on behalf of the Club, Councilman Most, Assembly MPs, pardon, Mosta. We didn't get the answers. We're not colleagues on the one hand and on the other, we didn't expect big wonderful answers, but at least to be answered whether it's true or not. And that's why this law needs to be discussed by the minister. Does the thoughts change, make something easier for these OPGs, whether they need them in the OPGs, whether this law will need to change their documentation, stamps, numbers, that it will add even more obstacles. And many other things, which are essentially foreseen by this law, and people who own the OPG expect answers and expect a good law. We're not against the law, we've been constructive, we've been arguing, but they won't give us answers. Which is why, because obviously Prime Minister Plenkovic said his message to the dissuasive parliament, it is important for us to have 78 hands, and for the rest we will easily. So this is a demographic system of choice, parliamentary, and obviously Plenkovic, well... The Pharaoh system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59459	Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59460	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bulj, every good authority must observe good, it must observe what is happening in the country, what is happening in the field, in order to make the right conclusions. You mentioned fish. Okay, the fish swims freely, but there are other things that we can very confidently know where they come from. Naim, 10 years ago, when you were sitting on the D2 state road, you know what road that is? So-called That's where you could see the truck, behind a truck full of cattle, passing through. People know that when they smoke cigarettes, they say, "This isn't good." You know what you can see today? Truck, behind the wooden hull truck. Travellers, the man from Vienna, though banned, from exporting troops from Vienna, a truck with Croatian license plates full of troops. This is what we need to deal with and what we need to point to. Because Croatia and the future of Croatia begin on its material resources, what we have, our wealth, which are forests, fertile fields and our seas, these are three of the most important resources. And that's why you don't have to be surprised when I listen to you here when you get so excited and you fight so much for those resources, I forgot to mention water.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59461	Mr. Bull, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59462	Comrade Sagar, the same thing is happening in my area. Once the cattle market was known in Sinj on Saturday as a whole, across the border of the Lithuanian area, Herzegovina would be a cattle market on Saturday. Today it's been healed by a cup where there's been a place, a match, it just needs... No cattle, no more livestock production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are the policies you allow. But we legally had, i.e. From the budget we gave huge incentives, subsidies, billions of kunas, no more cattle. Here I know that here's a colleague of Shucker's and of origin from the district of Lebanon, he can describe, if he heard stories and knows, from the end of how much cattle there was then and how big was the flow of cattle, how much was sold, how much was transported, now there's no more. You just can't see the cow, the sheep, through Lyku very little anymore. And so in your neighborhoods. For what? Because this is how it was applied in Parliament. When it was debated, it was written by the directive, written, and it doesn't give us answers to the questions, so far it has been. What was concerned, this is important that the import lobby introduced a lamb of 11 kuna per kilogram and what would go down would be a manufacturer, a man, a cattleman who raises sheep and who deals, wants and sells lamb that, minimum 10 euros, would be worth it, that would be irrelevant, that was an import lobby, were of interest and it was important that this House, the people who spoke and asked questions in the interest of the people not to answer them. And so in this OPG Act. We didn't get a single answer, and that's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59463	Thank you very much. Noting that Mr. Shucker is from Livna and not from Imotska krajina. ... No, you said the estates. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's right out of Livna. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's open up a debate about it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I close the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59464	Proposal for a Family Agricultural Economy Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 2013 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, the proposal for a Family Agricultural Economy Act and secondly, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant, to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 103 votes to four abstentions, 19 against, have reached the conclusion that we have been proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59465	And now we can freely cross if Mr. Bulj and Mr. Shucker allow us, we can move to a new law - Proposal for a law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall be replaced. So this is where you can submit the amendments. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Ma'am, I think Maria Vuchkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59466	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary deputies and MPs. On behalf of the promoter, I am grateful for the opportunity to come up with the Final Proposal of the Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. As we all know in the last 10 years since 2008 and especially since 2014, trade relations in the food supply chain have been disrupted, major trading systems have strengthened, a number of retail, medium and commercial trade and negotiating forces have disappeared in the hands of 10 biggest trade chains in line with the strengthening of the commercial concentration on one side and due to inefficient legal solutions on the other side, there has been a series of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. The problem of the existence of unfair commercial practices has been particularly highlighted recently, it is pointed to by all interest groups in the agricultural sector and in the food industry as well as support institutions. Therefore, during 2016, the Ministry of Agriculture joined the draft of this Act. The situation that we have today threatens the sustainability of the agricultural sector, regardless of its kind of organisation and thus widespread disturbances in food production and supply. Therefore, this law is assessed as the reform priority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in Group I to encourage business environment, strengthening agriculture, tourism and sustainable development. This law defines and punishes all unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain in order to further protect suppliers, the obligation to conclude the contract in writing and the minimum elements of each contract and to make this law more effective. The Agency for Protection against Competition shall be designated as an independent legal person with public authority and experience in similar matter to impose administrative criminal measures up to a maximum of 5 million kuna on legal persons. Following this, it will no longer be possible to sell agricultural products below the purchase price, charge the fees for shelves, fees for exposure,... change the terms of the contract,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Break off contracts, put pressure on action sales and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law was also in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament on 30 June 2017 and was given wider support from Croatian parliamentary representatives with certain remarks and suggestions to improve the text. Compared to the text of the draft law in question, certain comments were incorporated in this final proposal, so it would point out that, as a binding period of payment for fresh products, it was defined instead of 60 days at the time, for the current 30 days, that a more precise period of payment occurred at the date of application in the Croatian Parliament. In particular, a detailed issue of sales under the purchase price has been raised as a particularly serious violation of this law for which it is possible to impose an administrative penalty measure of up to 5 million kunas on legal persons, i.e. up to 2.5 million kunas for natural persons, and also with the aim of excluding any doubts on the issue of the regulation of invoices and tax regulations, more precisely governed and reorganised Article 7 of the law in agreement with the Ministry of Finance. In further steps, all state administration bodies were shown to be positive and without any objection to the law other than the Competition Protection Agency, which had a minor objection to the definition of the purchase price and which we respected. Constitutional basis, Articles 2, 16 and 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and this law prohibit the exploitation of a significant negotiating force by the purchaser or editor or the food supply chain traders. The income including income from related companies achieved in the Republic of Croatia as a census by which traders, buyers, editors become bonds of this law, is 100 million kuna for traders, or 50 million kuna for buyers and editors, and thus 95% of the trading sector and 95% of the purchasers and editors become bonds of this law. The law clearly defines basic and other unfair commercial practices from Articles 4 to 12. The law lays down that for each supply of a agricultural food product, an account or a buying block should be issued, a contract with minimum elements of the contract and administrative and penalty measures shall be divided into three groups of specific infringements of the law up to 5 million kuna for legal or 2.5 million for natural persons for sale under the purchase price of up to 3.5 million kunas of other serious infringements of the law for legal persons and 1.5 million kunas for natural persons, respectively, as well as minor infringements of laws that are punishable to a maximum of up to million kuna for natural persons, and that the Agency for the Protection of Competition will naturally impose these penalties depending on the duration, scope, weight, economic power, etc. The final and change in relation to the text in the first reading is that, in Article 32, the deadline for harmonisation for existing contracts was amended, it was extended, it was 31.12., it was now March 31st, thus giving an additional 90 days for the existing contracts of all the addresses of this law in order to comply and we consider that deadline appropriate. The law has fiscal effects. In order to implement these laws and a number of thousands of new contracts that will come out of it, the Competition Protection Agency must employ a minimum of 6 employees with a judicial examination and such funds will be provided at the position of the administration and management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59467	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, Mr. Simic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59468	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the ministry, so first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that today we have a second reading of this extremely important law on benches. I am sorry that he did not see the light of the day a few years ago because I think he would have been very helpful to Croatian producers in equal negotiations with merchants, and above all I think of foreign merchants, although even these domestically often do not have such favors for domestic producers. What I would like to comment on, and it is also about your last sentences, is the position of AZTN in this whole story, and above all I am pleased that they are here as a body, and it is good that it is not a criminal court, because surely those who wish to throw out or circumvent the rules of this law would use the slowness of our judicial system. However, what concerns me is the sub-capacitation of AZTN, which I believe is already today, so it is clear that there are too few experts employed in their ranks and I fear that these six people they are planning to hire will not be enough to implement such an important and comprehensive law. We are faced with the fact that they do not have enough people who can work in the field, we are faced with the fact that even if their leaders are obviously insufficiently prepared to declare any incorrect information in serious Croatian media, which is why I think, on the part of your ministry, that even for the purpose of implementing this law, more employment should be initiated in AZTN, I know that this is not your job, but I think it can be a well-intentioned, friendly and collegiate criticism towards them and help ultimately that by strengthening the human capacities of this law on the ground experience real application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59469	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59470	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor's Secretary of State. Here we are from HSS and I welcome the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Unfair Commercial Practice, we are pleased that he came to another reading although it would be as good as Mr Simic said we had brought it before, we see that a lot of European countries have now set out in this direction to introduce similar or rocky laws into their legal infection and that we have guessed to protect our producers by adopting this law. I am pleased that one broad debate was about this law and that most of the objections and included in this law on the prevention of those unfair commercial practices that have been observed in our market and I protest on behalf of the HSS which is not included in the law and the part of the requirement from the field that a certain percentage of domestic agricultural products on the shelves are conditional upon the signing of new contracts. I know you said that on the board, but I have to tell the public here that for a number of reasons at this point it's impossible, but if some other states could do it, why couldn't the Republic of Croatia. And I also appeal that then we can rightly carry out the actions of the type "Bought Croatian" and invite our citizens to buy Croatian products on the shelves of these trade chains. And especially when we heard in the announcement of some trade chains that the introduction of this law into the legal practice of the Republic of Croatia will bring as many products as possible from its home countries, especially food and agricultural products, which is why we need as much as possible to buy Croatian so that they can put on the shelves something else and we will not go into these trade chains. I think my colleague agrees with me. And I think it's going to take more money than this million and 300 thousand kunas to get these people to do this job and I suggest they be more up-to-date and tighter on those shopping houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59471	Thank you very much. Replication response, Your Honor's secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59472	Thank you very much. Here is the order, so it is not possible to determine the percentage of the inclusion of domestic products on the shelves of trade chains because it is contrary to the principle of freedom of movement of goods, capital, goods and services and contracts of operation signed by the Republic of Croatia. Such a provision or similar was installed by the two countries and brought against them the infringement of European law. We aim to keep the law uninterrupted in application. We've defined all the unfair commercial bangs very precisely. No European country has 6 basic and 24 additional trade and 9 of these in the section relating to part of the chain between suppliers, purchasers and processors. As for this million 360 thousand 632 when here is the repeat question of two kunas for employees of the agencies. The Agency took part in all 11 basic meetings of the Commission and 4.5 additional. We have agreed with them the initial number of employees with the judicial examination, has great experience in the protection of the competition in matter that is close to this one, so we will see and believe that it will be well carried out. And if there's any need to change, we won't run away from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59473	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yeah. Honored Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59474	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the respected State Secretary, the esteemed Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 28th session held on 7 November this year the Final Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Supply Chain, which was sent by the Government of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 18 October 2017. The establishment of rules and a system of measures to prevent unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain prescribed by this law will regulate relations between stakeholders of the food supply chain in the Republic of Croatia, a proposing representative, recalling the absence of a harmonised regulatory approach at the level of the EU as a whole. The applicant accepted the proposal from the home agricultural committee presented in the debate on the draft law relating to the regulation of the period of payment for fresh products for up to 30 days, and we thank you for that act. The debate highlights the HGK's position that due to the effective implementation of the provisions of this law, the lack of capacity of the Competition Protection Agency and the expected scope of the law enforcement work should be borne by the Ministry of Finance. In addition to that final proposal, the provisions of Article 7(3) and Article 34 of the envisaged implementation of the impact assessment fee of this law should be more clearly defined within two years provided for by the obligation to continue to assess the impact of the implementation of this law. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Supply Chain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59475	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the distinguished representative Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59476	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of this law is also the first time in this House, and I hope that we will discuss this law together in the same direction and with the same goal. In recent years, the Croatian food market with the beginning of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement has become part of the single European market and trends from the euro market have affected the formation of the structure of food trade in the Republic of Croatia. By entering the EU, however, these trends in the integration of large trade chains of foreign owners are becoming even more visible and where a more pronounced, unscrupulous fight for profit and profit leads to a situation for such chains to reach various ways of unfair and unfair games on the market, and one of these is unfair trade practices in the food supply chain, all in order to move forward. Among other things, such a chain of foreign chains imports or imports into the Republic of Croatia without any control of goods of questionable or poor quality, repacked immediately before the expiry date and by the sale of such food ruins prices to domestic quality products, thereby destroying domestic agriculture, domestic food industry, traders and extracting single profits from the Republic of Croatia. By adopting the eu directive, Croatia becomes a European market and is not subject to any border control. For example, by importing or importing EU meat, it is not subject to inspection from the border of processing until the finished sausage and burger products. Unlike domestic production subject to constant inspection at the slaughterhouse. This is how the EU regulations that we had to take over by joining the EU are prescribed, but no one is defending us with an enhanced view and sampling of the so-called. above standard especially if such occurrences are common. Only during sampling shall there be no discrimination against the individual entity in the food business. In accordance with the hygiene package, it would be sufficient in such situations and self-control of entities in the food business where they conduct the control of critical points according to the HASAP system. I am, however, far more prone to food control from animal origin by the inspection service according to the level of risk prescribed by the competent bodies than self-control of meat that has come into the trade chain of foreign owners from the home country who are here without control and control of the grind, processing and installing meat products. I note that the possibility of contamination of foodstuffs of animal origin is precisely at this stage the largest. Furthermore, it should be made very clear that food products are just the bait used by traders during their actions and attracting customers. These products are sold below the purchase price, thus deliberately entering the red to attract the buyer, and then with other high margins that the buyer fills the basket to offset the loss and make a profit. However, this practice is inadmissible because it puts pressure on suppliers, primary producers, but also on the food industry. We often have examples of action sales, for example, of chickens from the Czech Republic at 10 kuna, but then domestic brands raise the price where such a domestic product is so double unacceptable to the customer. I am sorry, therefore, that a provision on the obligation to place a percentage of domestic goods on the shelves for breach of the EU contract could not be incorporated, as you said earlier. Furthermore, numerous examples on the Croatian market are in the entire food chain, especially in the case of permanent milk, chicken meat, pig meat or other food products where traders form a retail price at no cost of selling, and thus permanently press suppliers for increasing additional benefits. For the above reasons, we requested that the provisions of the ban on selling products below the purchase price with value added tax be added to the statement of that cost of sales. These costs, for example, are 11% for meat, fruit and vegetables, according to EuroComerc. It is a pity that this could not have been incorporated into the law with an explanation that this would be contrary to the rules on the protection of competition. On the other hand, it is very good that the provision we have proposed is included and is prescribed by a binding deadline, binding a payment deadline of up to 30 days for fresh products, and a clearer deadline for payment of products to run from the moment of receipt of the product by the trader. For traders, the supply of fresh food is day, week or two weeks, and it was normal to shorten the payment period, which will improve liquidity in the primary agricultural production sector to a good extent. More precisely, the purchase price is also defined, including the dependent costs. It is also important that this law regulates the observation of the complete supply chain below any purchase price and throughout the supply chain. For all EU member states, hidden or public subsidies protect their own primary agricultural and livestock production. The task is for us, as representatives, as well as Croatian governments, to take all the necessary actions to try to strike some balance in a huge difference in the negotiating power between small suppliers and processors on one side and large trade chains on the other. Unfair trading practices greatly deviate from fair play and impose stronger rules in the food supply chain and thus destroy small and medium-sized enterprises. This phenomenon has also occurred within EU member states since the start of the 2018 crisis and culminated in the Russian ban on imports in 2014. Already in 2009, EU documents show that it is trying to find a solution to increase the competitiveness of food supply chains, as the burden of crisis and market disturbances shifts fully to manufacturers and consumers. I note that the majority of 20 to 28 EU member states have already introduced various regulatory measures and mechanisms to address the problem of unfair commercial practices, so it is high time that we did so too. Unfortunately for the protection of competition, by this law, a pardoned competition protection authority has given this law to the Competition Protection Agency, which acts ex post rather than as HERA or HANFA acting ex ante, and this agency is, in this sense, not the regulator but the executive body responsible for implementing the rules which, for the purpose of implementing the Competition Protection Act, determines and imposes penalties which is good. Therefore, it does not impose a misdemeanor or an indictment but punishes injuries to high sentences in the first degree. It's good because we know that proceedings at the Criminal Courts, and then even at the High Courts, would last years or go out of date. The prescribed criminal measures for the perpetrator are extremely high with the aim of dissuasive influence and balance the participants in food supply, hence the weaker supplier and the stronger buyer or trader. In particular, it has been more detailedly arranged as an unfair commercial practice and the issue of selling below the purchase price as extremely difficult, and an administrative and penalty measure has been introduced for that infringement with the maximum amount of fines of 5 million kuna for legal and 2 and a half million kuna for a natural person. For this reason, it is necessary to employ the agency as six new employees have been said and raise the budget by 1 million kuna, which will certainly be paid. In addition, the contractual relationship between the supplier and the trader as well as the legal consequences if the contract is not concluded or contains all the prescribed provisions, and the contractual obligation to issue an account. As a result, in the food chain, traders will no longer be able to pay a policy fee, charge for the entry of the product on the trader's sales list, charge for the delivery of the supplier's products, pressure on action sales and be late in payments, and change unilaterally and retroactively the terms of the contract and everything considered unfair commercial practice by law. In the end, I want to say that this is a long-awaited law. It has been received extremely well from the Croatian public, from all the clubs of the representatives as much information as I have from the small OPG, and from small and medium suppliers, and will certainly be widely accepted in this Parliament. It is high time to bring it, it has already been said, it should have been done much earlier in order to balance and regulate this problem. And that's why the HDZ Club will support him and I'm sure he'll get a general consensus in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59477	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Angel Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59478	Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Križanić, I have listened carefully to your debate and I personally believe that you are certainly one of the most addressed representatives in the agricultural problem. So I'm going to give you a quick but clear question. So do we not derivate the European Directive by adopting this law? Is it contrary to the EU legal directive and related to... The flow of goods and goods? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59479	The answer of the respected representative Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59480	Thank you, fellow Striker. The secretary of state said that this law is in line with European directives. And I note that most, I have already said 20 out of the 28 EU Member States have already passed, made similar laws and made certain mechanisms to address the problem of unfair commercial practices. Not only is it consistent, I would go even further and be, I would go to the fact that, like some EU members, our neighbours, for example, Austria has an unwritten rule that 50 % on shelves must be goods of its own production, meaning domestic producers. The secretary of state explained in her statement that this is not possible. However, if we had put that provision in place, we would have, probably from the EU, written that we had to remove it, but it would have been a year or two, and then, already, something would have gone one way and would have shown our producers and our trade chains what our intention was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59481	The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Križanić, well, yes, this is, you say, a long-awaited law, this is, I would dare say one of the few laws on which three ministers worked, the last 3 agriculture ministers. And here, now he's finally in front of us in the second reading. But this law will solve some problems, but a series of problems remain. So definitely this sector needs to be regulated, a food supply chain, i.e. unfair commercial practices. However, when we talk about our producers and their placement on our market, we have three basic problems for me. It's branding, let's say Osijek is a cradle of Croatian beekeeping. We are still in Slavonia with the branding of Slavonic honey which can then be recognized on the market. The Krapina-Zagorje County did it with Zagorje honey. When you're branding something, you need to have the amount, so when you're creating the demand. And the third is the purchasing power of our citizens. So I bet anyone who can afford it would rather buy fresh products that come from Croatian producers than foreign, frozen, like this, like that. However, when you consider the fact that 70% of our employees work for a salary of 3 to 5 thousand kuna gross, so from an average of let's say 2,500 thousand kuna net, then they can't choose what they buy, they buy the cheapest. Cheapest, most of the time. And we had a number of situations in ours, even which ended tragically, so in Croatia where just because of the poor quality of the product, old meat, bad meat, etc., there are some, ended tragically, i.e. died. So these are all the problems that need to be solved and unfortunately they will not only be solved by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59483	Thank you. Answer, honourable representative Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59484	Thank you, colleague, for asking me this. It's safe, you were talking about branding and purchasing power. It is important to say another thesis of the declaration. So we have to change people's minds. The fact is that the paid power of our people is what it is and that people buy sausages for 15, 16, 18 kunas, turkey or folk. It's also clear to all those people who buy such a sausage that 15 kuna can't buy a normal sausage. We have to work, what you said, branding is one thing, it's above standard, it's something more than, first we have to learn to crawl so we can walk. But declaring goods is something we have to, we have it prescribed by the laws, the question is whether these declarations are being carried out to the end, and then, to know the origin of the goods and to know, if we're talking about meat age. Well, then, let someone who likes to have a go. Well, everyone's gonna buy, I'd always rather eat half a pair of high-quality hot dogs or sausages than a pair of these for 15 kunas. It is certain that our citizens did not deserve not to know what they are buying, they must know it, they must be directed. And then if you and our people knew what to buy, what all the grinds in that case would think very carefully rather than buy certain goods to read the declaration or ask questions or go to their janitor who knows the quality of the goods they buy from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59485	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Independent Lists in the name of which the respected representative Tomislav Panenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59486	Thank you very much. The draft law on unfair commercial practice passed during July of this debate. It has been assessed as a law which is necessary because of the really violated trade relations in the food supply chain and in that sense and has received support from the club of the representatives of the Most Independent Lists. In this case, I would point out that we are experiencing this law as our initiative is already in the term of our minister's first draft law and in order to strengthen the position of our producers on the market was one of the necessary measures to be taken. What this law gives us is actually a key issue, and that is where I would have led Minister Tolusic himself, who was very clear. So we're going to have a vote on this law, a bridge of independent lists will give support to the law, we believe that there will be no problem at all if this law is passed, and I believe that we are very close to someone's consensus on this issue. It is well aligned with all sides and there are no important remarks which I would have heard on the very Committee on Agriculture from those present then we see that it was really in a very positive atmosphere. So the minister himself announced that what we can expect, that milk will no longer be sold at dumped prices below the producer price, thus destroying domestic milk producers, that a liter of milk will no longer be in stores cheaper than a liter of water, that egg producers will not complain about imports coming from market surpluses at dumped prices. He announced that it is impossible for the sales price in stores to be lower than the producer plus VAT. We now have a situation that domestic trade chains, I stress domestically, not only foreign, we have always talked about foreign, but also domestically when reporting goods receive goods as if they were good, and then they come back after a week to invent something that they don't have to pay them in full, but the goods even have no real return or demand significant rebates. So we had a return and after a month, you only get a notice after such a passage of time that some of their knowledge of the incompetence of the goods you delivered and all comes down to rebate, rebate, rebate. Well, the minister himself has shown that up to 80% of them can be used for something you hand over at a nominal price. The problem is statements and actions that have become daily, and we believe that these actions are always at the expense of our producers. We used to mean goods that come from time to time, which appear in discount chains, but we see that they have become basic foods and thus food products of Croatian peasants are a permanent object of action. This means that the negotiating position of traders in relation to producers was strong and that they were being blackmailed especially during the season when they could not respond because of the failure of the goods distribution system, because of the absence of wholesale centres, the warehouses mean all our weaknesses were coming out and these are the trade chains used. What pleases me is that here are eight days since the publication in the National Journal there will be no longer long payment deadlines, for the longest 60 days. And what was the proposal on the Committee on Agriculture for 30 days for fresh products. It is up to all of us to follow, help the Ministry of Agriculture to be strong, determined, so that the Competition Protection Agency remains independent and can strongly sanction. The sooner the first sanctions are, the more significant the effects of this law will be. What are all the effects? It will not be difficult to access retail, there will be no entry fees for entry into the store anymore, there will be no fees for policies in trade, there will be no promotions, there will be no unilateral and retroactive changes in the contract, there will be no unilateral violation of the same contracts, there will be no charges for private stamps, there will be no imposition of packaging material that we have witnessed over and over again, there is no fee for the weaker sale of whether the trader is the one who answers and risks, can not transfer the risks to his supplier, there is no transfer of costs due to the theft or loss of the product, there is no imposition of costs related to consumer complaints, all this is a list that belongs to unfair commercial practices, and from which our primary producers are not protected. Therefore, this law itself is excellent, its implementation must be even stronger and more quality. And why am I warning you exactly about the implementation? Is it that during the drafting of this law there have been numerous obstructions in its making, and especially here, we can, for example, have seen this regulation directed against Konzum, and many members of the commission have directly obstructed the work of the commission by objecting to the adoption of laws and demands to adopt a code on unfair commercial practices. But what matters is that the code is not a binding legal document, but that the problem has continued. So the bill was preceded by an analysis of the situation, information from the field, all the phenomenal forms of unfair commercial practices were detected by those who could probably always be witnesses to get some additional practice, all of what were limiting elements of the development of Croatian agriculture. A number of agricultural producers and food industry companies, the interest groups of agricultural producers indicated that participants of such unfair commercial practices are not exclusively foreign trade chains but that this practice was also taken over by our trade chains and companies engaged in the purchase and processing of such products. And it's always been a key problem of negotiations, agreements, prices, because one is the price offered in public, and all that other stuff was blackmail. So, the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices, we believe, for the first time, will adopt, systematic, effective, measures to regulate the market for agricultural food products, that it will certainly result in the favourable position of our producers, as it depends all on the efforts, on the effectiveness of the Agency for the Protection of Competition, on the support it will have from the Resolute Ministry of Agriculture. Here we want, that during this year, it was one remark, but we do not think it is important, if it is to work intensively on, that the effects will be visible immediately, in a short time, that we should not wait 2 years for the first effects, but that they will be applied, intensively controlled, and from here and from this speaker we invite all producers who will meet with any form of unfair commercial practice, that even in this House, resolutely the ministry, the agency, to report these forms, so that all of the joint efforts, we can help this law, which the bridge of independent lists absolutely supports, be effective. It's as effective as how effective people are to implement it and that's something I have to say, that the ministry and the agency have a big, serious task, to meet the expectations of all producers who are willing to help and warn about all forms of future, unfair commercial practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59487	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59488	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Panenić, I agree with you that this important law is an important law, I agree that this is a law that we want to help our producers. And you said well, that some unfair practices have taken over our chains. And not only the chains, but also the companies dealing with the processing of certain products. I'm going to give you an example, one of the manufacturers of peaches from Slavonia, who delivered their goods to our largest, then domestically, now is no longer with us whether or not to go to the domestic trade chain. The goods were generally rated with a class lower than they were. So if the first class, that is, they bought it at the price of the second, he had no choice, so he had no one else to turn to, or sell his product. He waited 180-200 days for payment. Now, you do business in such an environment, be competitors, or live off your peaches. So this 30-day deadline for paying for fresher products is something I absolutely welcome. I'd just like it to be respected then. We've had laws before. On every invoice you've issued, you've had a currency, a payment date. However, you know how much you respect it, little to nothing, you're lucky if you charge at all. So, on our market, it still has to work and what you said. This law will be as effective as the people who implement it. We must insist when such a good law is passed that it is actually implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59489	The answer of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59490	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, we live in an area where such scratches were actually a strong pressure on producers, we certainly have a number of them that have just given up production, especially in the area of the fruit and vegetables sector, because they had no choice. At that moment, when they produced something, after that they couldn't, in fact resist the pressure, which was offered, you have to deliver the goods, it's fresh, it can't wait, after that, all that we put into this law here and welcome you. First it starts with that you can't deliver to us in anything, but just in the packaging you have to buy us, or us, that packaging is your expense. So they're already installing it, and then all of this away from class, we're all aware of it, means buying out by second class, and eventually it all ends up in the good part, in the first class, and then it goes into shopping chains, and then you're looking at your product that you've been paid under the class where it belongs, and in the end, someone's selling it by. And there are numerous examples, which we can list, and the frustrations are great, so I say, we're going back for years, years, back, we should have had this kind of thing, and I think we'd all be one happier society and our producers ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59491	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59492	Thank you very much, Mr. Panenc, there are many examples of unfair commercial practice. And what is particularly in the eyes is the quality of the product, some sold by yesterday in Croatia, and the same producers, the same name, produced better quality, sold in their countries. And I don't think we've done enough here so far, so no government yet, because it's really inadmissible. To see, our people, the same prices or similar prices pay and sometimes more expensive prices, than in Germany and Austria, for products, which are lower quality, which are made up of cheaper foods and all that is related to it. So that's where you need to stand firm, react, here's even one study on several products she ordered in the framework of her work, the Euro Representative Borzan and which has come up with shocking evidence, but the action itself and the public's reaction has forced these producers to produce replacements. For example, I stopped buying a hot dog, after I found out the composition wasn't the same as in Italy, where the manufacturer came from. They lost one buyer, and I believe it's about 10,000 people who responded the same way. So you're on the side, our country, and you should have rigorous control there. It should not be the representatives of the European Parliament, although it is commendable that they will have the initiative, but our inspections, our Ministry of Agriculture. We need to control everything and make them respect Croatian consumers as is respected by German, Austrian or any other in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59493	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59494	Dear colleague Maras, I worked in the trade sector and what is what is right for all of us and for setting the sale price is actually a product calculation. You've got something invested, you've got margins, VAT, and it's all worth the price you're presenting to your buyer. Of course, I also agree on the quality of these products. Does anyone here really think that the statement by any of these producers that they adapted their product to the tastes of a particular region really is that manufacturer's wish? If it entered the production process, divided into these components, then this particular calculation would show that the significantly lower prices of raw materials used for the products coming into our market. It happens in a series of products it shows that prices are somewhat lower than Western markets, but let's also consider that content, quality, that's more significant than that. Here's this law from my point of view is very good, but if we had set that production price as a starting point, then we would have actually entered into a very difficult topic, it takes a lot of expertise, knowledge, analysis to determine that some price is below the manufacturer's. And that's where we're actually going to come up with the key problems and in the implementation of this proof, that someone actually went around somewhere, bypassing elements, getting these products falsely showing actually the purchase price while somewhere else he managed to get under production, and that's where we're going to have to look for an additional answer. Therefore, I have also given some warning to those two years of impact assessments that we will have to deal with new elements, additions. I hope you'll have one positive over... This law complements and prevents new forms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59495	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, we will hear the distinguished representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state, assistant, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm actually going to continue in one part of the debate from the previous law because I think it's actually very important for this law as well. We will, of course, support this law because it has long been prepared, it has been long mentioned, it has long been sought, the fact is that it has been started with preparation in the previous government, that this government and the rest ministry has now put it on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament but on this law and problems and unfair commercial practices have been spoken of long ago and it has been mentioned that this should be resolved, it is good that it is finally coming on the agenda to protect everyone in Croatia. We have a situation where trade blooms, that manufacturers are totally naked and that citizens as customers don't notice it in principle or don't see it on their wallets, at prices. And surely that one such law, of course, with what has been stressed in all the debates here, one real control can, and it will improve that part of the relationship primarily between agricultural producers and traders. If policy were to be directed towards agricultural production, food production in that direction to really encourage and stimulate the association of small OPG producers, then we could talk about a much better application of this law. Because this is how those who are small, weak can find it hard to get to shopping malls, let alone reach a price, which is why it is necessary and necessary to get together. It is good to set payment deadlines, especially for fresh products for 30 days because we know what it was like in Croatia for a year ago, not 60 or 30 days. It is also very good in the law to prevent more traders who work practically by repacking some of their brand to buy products from manufacturers at low prices and to either produce them themselves and repack them, and then sell them at a lower price than is a real cost of production, but we already have a situation that some of them are already in preparation for the implementation of this law, so you already have situations that the mall asks the manufacturer to buy from it the containers for the packaging of the products it charges him at a certain price to regain its profits. And that's the part where it specifically warns about law enforcement control, there's going to be a series of obstacles, a series of traps to which merchants will wind up, of course, to make as much money as possible and to the burden and damage of the manufacturer to that maximum until it burns to their nails. There are interesting things all this time, especially the places on the shelves, the purchase of products, the blackmail of merchants from producers that the malts don't have to buy trucks that will then drive goods to their centers, the various things were and it was really high time to come to this kind of law and to start to end it. The bill provides for strengthening the agency, it will likely need even stronger reinforcements to control all of this and ultimately benefit all of it. I believe both the ministry and the competent agency will have the strength to do so and will have no mercy. Because that is the only way we can introduce discipline, tame those who have now made good use of it and make good for producers, especially Croatian citizens. For those reasons, of course, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59497	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is a respected Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59498	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrg, when we talk about unfair practices, it is impossible not to notice the tactics of certain trade chains entering our market, they are allowed to do what they want. So, for example, they chose certain products on the market very popular, so they did research, they saw what was particularly important to citizens, and thus by buying these products from our producers they knew them in their chains to sell below the purchase price. So that's what it is. Dumping we all know what it means and how it's used but no one has responded to it. And consciously they said we're going there to Croatia, we're going to make a year, two days no profit or any loss. But after a while, when we become stronger, more dominant. See how from year to year some chains grow constantly at rates of 10, 15% and some domestic chains stand on the same. And I don't mean "Conzum" that's in trouble, and we have other domestic chains that are of quality. They can't achieve these growth rates that these big ones who came from the outside, and I'm telling you that a lot of it was made up of dumped prices to dominate here for the next 5, 10 or 15 years and make extra margins, or extra profits. Croatia needs to take care of it too, so I'd say tough. People say they can't determine by law what they have to do and how much the state must sell on the shelves of certain sellers. They can't say that by European law. But how can I say that some other EU countries who have done so and consciously await a certain punishment, but have protected their consumers and their producers?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59499	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59500	Comrade Maras, we rarely agree on something, but now we agree on one small supplement. It wasn't just trade chains coming from outside. This relationship with manufacturers was also done by domestic trade chains. And they're doing it because the store is a store. If they didn't, they wouldn't even be able to fight these trade chains that are strong, powerful and come from the outside. Of course they come in planically and that well, they well have a well-designed policy on how to fight that competition, as much as you make at the very least. But it's also a good thing, it's too bad, it's too bad it's not before, it's a good thing even now it's come to the adoption of the Law on OPGs that we wanted to erase even in the name of some of the previous periods. You well remember the time in this assembly when there was a lot of talk about it. Today we have discussed this bill of law and are now discussing the proposal for a law on unfair commercial practice. But I'm telling you in the debate I've already told some merchants are bending their tactics and already doing certain shops to make a profit at the expense of the manufacturer. Small producers will have to organize themselves, they will have to be helped, and then, with the help of such a law, they come together. I repeat also to the benefit of them as producers, of course also to the benefit of consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59501	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59502	Thank you, Mr. Rainer. Comrade Hrg, here we are today agreeing mainly in both debates. So, but I have to correct you in one fact. The three ministers worked on this law, so Jakovina, Romic and Tolusic. When Jakovina was a minister, I would assume that this law has a very high political consensus and that we should bring it in for a number of reasons now that I am not repeating myself. But what I'd like to underline is what you're talking about, and you're talking about it, that's what we talked about when we talked about the OPG Act. We need a permanent, continuous, continuous assessment of the effects of this law and we need to be consistent in implementation, but also in control and in impact control. So, does this law really produce the results that should be given, whether our producers are in a better position, or whether they are not victims of bad commercial practices, and whether this ultimately results in better market relations, but also more satisfied I guess to the consumer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59503	The answer to the esteemed Brank Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59504	Well, I agree with you absolutely what you said, and that law is definitely long spoken of. Good thing he finally saw the light of day. The fact is, I repeat, traders will manage because it's their job. And I can't even blame them. It's simple, but here's a moment ago, my colleague Maras was talking about these ratios of domestic food, domestic products on shelves and imports. And I agree absolutely. It's the same step we need to take, go to the maximum, up to the maximum, but before that, prepare and ensure that we can produce it, that we have it. And the control that you've been talking about, everyone's stressing it, it's actually going to give the results of reviewing the law at all. I'm sure it's not going to go so smoothly, it's too tight for lobbys, there's going to be a lot of problems, but I think they're hitting the ground and if we all get together like this, we agree here, that we should do it, that there shouldn't be a problem in that part to get it through. So I believe that the implementation of this law should be really well implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59505	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59506	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretary of state with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. So, first of all, I would like to express regret once more that the Minister of Agriculture is not here. It's known that the two of us don't always agree, to be more specific, almost never. But here's what I'd like is for him to be here, if sometimes I could commend him. It was the same thing when we discussed the O.P.G.s, but that we could ask him some of the things that bother us. We have, we talked about it before noon, the minister's still gone, I don't want to talk about it any further. A few words in principle about the law, of course, we need this law. As I said in the replica, three ministers were working on it. From the debate so far, I feel we have a high political consensus. That we want to bring order to the market in the food supply chain, i.e. root out unfair commercial practices and that is absolutely something that is commendable. In the first reading it was the same, we have a quality bill ahead of us. And we're not afraid to say it and support something when it's really quality. I'd like to have on the other hand, and that kind of talker in the government. That the government is not afraid to admit and support some of the ideas and suggestions that come from the opposition. When we all agree that they're okay. I'll remind you, a series of legal proposals that just came from the SDP, the government refused under the pretext of working on an identical law, but that law will then not be proposed by some of the parties in Parliament, but by the Government. I think, if the law is good, no matter who suggested it, the government, the individual, therefore, individual representative, the Club of Representatives, should support it. That's the case here. So, this law wants to regulate relations, the network of stakeholders of the food supply chain in the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately, we need to look back and look at that there is no harmonised regulatory approach to this problem at EU level or not. We have always been innovative, always and always need to be innovative, proactive, we need to take this problem seriously. Therefore, the law as a law will have our support. However, I would look back and take this opportunity to look at other problems that our producers have already discussed today, which we are not only dealing with with by this law, but which should be part of a broader solution. During the debate, we heard several times during the morning, as the strategy, the development of agriculture, i.e. the agricultural strategy, is in the works. I would also like to see as soon as possible that we can discuss it as much as possible and as constructively as possible and actually decide together which direction we want to lead our agriculture. And the moment we know that, individual laws, including this law, will be easier to pass. In fact, I think it'll be easier to come to a political agreement and consensus, because we'll know what our goal is. So each of us, our legitimate efforts, will be a step in the direction of the goal we've set ourselves. That's how it was supposed to be, for example, with an education development strategy, unfortunately it's not. But in any case, we need to think more strategically, especially when it comes to the economic development strategy, the agricultural development strategy, we need to work out where we want to take our agriculture and the economy. Therefore, this law aims to help our producers not to be victims of unfair commercial practices, but nevertheless, there are a whole series of problems that we need to solve together. As I mentioned earlier branding is one of those problems. Unfortunately, many of our high quality products do not have enough brand recognition. And I don't say that, therefore, within the EU frameworks, I speak primarily on our domestic market. I mentioned the example of honey, but you have an example of the kitchen, a kitchen which the Slovenians rushed to patent as their indigenous product, we haven't done it yet. The only tower you can buy in sufficient quantities, with a uniform quality and method of production is the Baranja tower, produced by Belja. And as far as I know, you don't have any others on the market right now, which is bad. If we agree, surely it's cool, and not just cool, there's other meat-processing, or, uh, dry-meat, which is ours, it can be our brand if we try a little harder. There's honey, there's milk, cheeses, etc., etc. So branding, market visibility is extremely important. Unfortunately, so far they're cornered. initiatives for branding and recognizable market appearances were related to local self-government units. Of course it serves local self-government units, to honor, but it shouldn't be strictly their business. So you have, I mentioned already Zagorje honey, so you have, now it's working on Slavonic honey. So definitely honey is one of our most competitive products that we can offer both our market and our European market. And we unfortunately export honey as raw materials, not as almost a product, which of course we can sell even more expensive. Another problem is the gathering, i.e. the quantities when we have a particular product. So if you're a big shopping chain, if you're a big caterer, or if you're a caterer in general, when you buy wine, when you buy here's a tower, here's what I mentioned when you buy honey, you need enough amounts to have it in your offer. You can't, so neither is it practical, nor is it recommended that I don't know, if you buy a tower, buy 50 kilos at Tomislav, then 150 kn at Tune, and another 200 kg at Kresa. First it won't be a tower of the same quality, second you'll lose a lot of time and energy looking for suppliers, third, you want to have a constant offer about the same, so a uniform product, that you have a whole series of problems. How do you solve that? Branding. There's been a lot of talk about the stock market, so unfortunately it's not alive yet. The infrastructure for manufacturers is also extremely important. We mentioned, here I mentioned in the replica of my colleague Panenic the manufacturers of peaches, but you have, for example, apple producers who are very much around Osijek, in Baranja and all over Slavonia. When the apple matures, when it is harvested, it has a certain price. So it's a product that's corrupt, which is only good for a certain time after the harvest and you have to sell it, you have to put it on the market right now. This actually conditiones some of these unfair practices, that large chains, or retail chains can blackmail you and give you a very low price. Because they know and they know that you have no choice but to sell the product right now. Unfortunately, most of our producers, for a number of reasons right now, I don't want to get into it, and that's not enough for us all night, there's no capacity to process that product. So if we talk about apples, for example, in juice or brandy, which is a product that can stand longer and be placed on the market later. And there's also no product-saving infrastructure. I'm talking about the ULO coolers first. In Osijek-Baranja County, ULO coolers have been successfully built for some 15 years. Maybe I said less time than it is. But the manufacturers have no choice but to put the goods on the market immediately. Some who go into investment and build their mini-fridges at the end, usually find it invaluable. Not always, but you still have to have enough. If it were a large ULO freezer that could serve all the manufacturers, I believe the situation would be much, much different. And finally create demand, so when we have a product, when we have quantities, we also have to have demand for such a product that should be recognizable for both quality and price. I've said several times today, I have to repeat, 70% of our citizens working in a working relationship for salaries of 2, pardons from 3 to 5 thousand kuna gross, so on the net of 2.5 thousand to 3,000 kuna net wages. With such incomes, you can hardly survive. And when you buy products, then you don't choose them according to quality, you don't choose them according to origin, but you choose them according to the price because you unfortunately have to fit into such financial frameworks. There are other examples, for example in Poland, large food industries have taken over the then existing local Polish food industry, have slowly begun to throw out their brands and produce their own. But what happened? The Poles simply did not buy such products, out of habit, seek their brand. It's specifically about the snacks industry, so chips and other snacks, so those... But I say the brands that producers tried to introduce to the market simply didn't get into Poland, people didn't want to buy them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So demand must exist and there must be purchasing power and there must be awareness of the need to buy domestic food. We cannot do this with protectionism, we have entered the EU, we have taken over the legacy of the EU and we have agreed to freedom of movement of goods, capital and services. Therefore, our apple can be sold theoretically under the same conditions in Spain, Denmark and France, but also Spanish, Danish or French apples can be sold under the same conditions or roughly the same conditions in Croatia. And in the end, what do we need in order for this law to really come to life? As I said control, control, control, continuous impact assessment and, as my colleague Hrg said, possible additions and changes in the law in order to ensure that the fundamental objective and intention of this law is achieved and that this is an orderly relationship between stakeholders of the food supply chain in the Republic of Croatia that this goal is indeed achieved. Therefore, we need more talk, we need more strategic thinking first of all when we talk about agriculture and agricultural production and the SDP Club of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59507	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59508	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdukovic. Although the law provides for certain sanctions for unfair practices, for example, there have now been many times in trade to charge various fees. So you put the policy over here, the policy there, at the cash register, all that stuff was charged. And our producers often had unwarranted costs elsewhere, for example, in some other countries they would not have. But what I'm afraid of now is that it will adapt very quickly to traders of the new law and will throw out that kind of burden but will, for example, put lower prices with the possibility of certain bonuses for sale etc. So they'll come up with all kinds of ways to make extra use of producers over the course of, for example, one year. And there's nothing that helps me, no legal solution that we're proposing right now, in a month, two days people will find a way to do something other than constant control and public intelligence. If I knew that, for example, one of our producers suffered from a foreign producer's control in the same product range. For example, a foreign chain has its brand and then competes with our brand, its brand does not burden with costs, our burdens, I would never buy that brand, on purpose. So that public must be sensitive and informed about everything that's going on. And that's why never enough control and never enough transparency. I call here on the Ministry to carry out continuous actions like this, education is the best. It is not enough to say just to buy Croatian but to show how some unfairly our products push and burden at extra costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59509	Thank you. The answer of the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59510	Thank you very much. Well, yes, colleague Maras, I agree. Unfortunately, the unfair commercial bangs aren't since yesterday, and we said even some of our chains have come up with it, there's been various abuses, blackmails, costs seen, never seen where your shelves are going to be, whether they're at the level with eyes, not and all of them our producers have paid, some are still paying. Of course, it can't and shouldn't be like that. And as far as brands of the trade chains themselves are concerned, there is a story of a great variety, so some of their brands are bought as an unbranded product from Croatian producers then packed or even our manufacturers already packed them under their brand and then sold on their shelves. So that's where it's hard actually to know. I'll give you an example, the Osijek brewery at least as far as I know about some chains produced by their brand of beer. One company from Lower Miholjca produced chips in the same way, so it produced its chips, unfortunately not from Croatian potatoes because there are not enough quantities, but it produced chips under the brand of certain trade chains that were then placed under that brand on the market, although this company has its brand. So we should definitely work on demand for Croatian products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59511	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and a distinguished representative, Ivan Lovrinović, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59512	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would also like to say that the party Change Croatia will support the proposal of this law because we have waited a long time for it and I simply did not have a similar law. But we have proposed five amendments, and here it will simply be tested how much the motioner is willing to adopt opinions that are truly justified, and I would also like to say that no matter who proposes in this House some law from which parties, we change Croatia will always support it if it is in the interest of the citizens and if it has a head and tail and if it is good. Here in the 5th Amendment, we propose that the law is called this law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. Why did you just put food on? Disrespectful means this suggests that all other commercial scratches are fair except in the food trade. We have unfair commercial practices in all segments. So that's what you'll get in the amendment that we've shared today. In this context, the supply chain consists of manufacturers, purchasers, processors, traders of other service and consumers. On the Croatian market, it is necessary to protect us from unfair commercial practices other than producers and suppliers of agricultural products and food and all other manufacturers and suppliers. By rounding the market, traders become the strongest part of the supply chain so that they can be declared monopoly due to high concentration and domination, unfair trade practices occur between the entities in the supply chain. In such relations unfair commercial practices are mentioned, I will say in the EU only 2008, a forum for better functioning of the supply chain was established in 2010, and it is recommended that Member States regulate the problem themselves. The European Parliament has published a 2012 resolution on imbalances in the supply chain and is asking the European Commission to submit a proposal for measures. In its 2016 resolution, the European Parliament is asking the European Commission to create a framework at EU level in order to meet the same conditions for market relations in the EU. In the Republic of Croatia only 2016, unfair commercial practices are first mentioned in Parliament. Manufacturers and suppliers have indicated illegal and unfair commercial practices since 2005, especially in stronger supply chains. All contracts signed with traders are dictatorships of stronger weaknesses, so the conflicting Law on Mandatory Relations. The behaviour of the trade chains is especially increasingly strong foreign chains are blackmailing and often ultimative. If no additional rebate is granted each year, if all their costs are not covered by those producers, especially if the smaller and medium are simply thrown off the shelves. These are various payments for example. shelves, product casting, number of products, new products, stocking, goods leaks, opening of new facilities, marketing etc. for which all requests for additional rebate are exhausted by the small and medium-sized producer and supplier. In the middle of the contracted year, the retail chains are rarely remembered by the flat-rate burdens the supplier must pay under the blackmail of the termination of cooperation. And when the business year is finally over, the manufacturer hopes everything's okay, and then again, they ask him for additional conditions to lower by 5%, etc. It's often known, sometimes it happens that the supplier loses his margin, and then he has to stop cooperating. So monopoly trade chains were used by disabling competition, it's important to say here because your product was held in an inadequate position or placed an extremely larger margin than the same products in the same category. That's not the market, gentlemen. That's what I've been talking about all along in this House. They have clearly discriminated against those suppliers who have been expelled and replaced with their own imports, and have already charged those charges. The period from 2005 to today has greatly strengthened trade chains, we see it, and has weakened especially small and medium-sized producers. Many have disappeared, in bankruptcy or attempted pre-fashion settlements especially from 2009 to 2015. These are the years of reduction in hundreds of thousands of jobs and the fall in GDP. Now I want to point out what this law with good intensities could create problems. There is a great danger that because of this law you see large trade chains, especially foreign cuts in the purchase of products from domestic producers to bypass the regulatory measures of this law to simply say this is too complicated, what these Croats want, let's introduce it and we won't mess with them here. They are also open to the possibility of bypassing the positive effects of this law, introducing a significantly more discriminatory margin on domestic producers' products. In this way, there will be strong silent pressure on suppliers to further lower their purchase price due to competitiveness and thus cancel the elimination of additional burdens. Discrimination of business entities can easily prevent some producers from accessing retail, as the European Commission has also pointed out. Manufacturers may be denied an adequate position on the shelf as the other group of the same products. As the introduction of this law on the assessment of the situation states that 10 large and smaller trade chains are dominated on the market by their dominant and monopoly position and strength. The manufacturer is inadmissible to lose his job with one chain which could lose 10 to 30% of the market. Such strong positions, the trade chains are well aware and will continue to benefit from those acts of unfair commercial practice. The urgent steps must be taken, so it is good to move and courageously access the comprehensive regulation of the market and protect domestic production. Although I see here often spoken naively about the free movement of goods, capital, but one should apply those hard-sighted discriminatory measures, ecological etc., health care. And by the end of the day, to bring the end, this law won't be enough for him to work out what else is needed? It is necessary to adopt a Monopolies Act against Monopolies, to supplement the Law on the Protection of Competition, the Anti-discrimination Act, and to strengthen the laws of the other provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations. It is necessary to supplement the Food Act, you see, which will clearly define the same quality criteria as in countries where we come from market surpluses of suspicious quality, bad food. I was the first in this House to warn of imports of meat from Brazil and was later confirmed for 500 million kunas, not to poison us. A number of tax changes need to be made to strengthen family farms, micro and small, medium-sized entrepreneurs and help domestic production. This is what we need to do and need, that means tax relief to make, reduce VAT to re-promaterial to 3%, etc. That makes sense, then. And finally, so we want to act constructively, we'll see how much rulings are prepared of what is therefore justified to adopt and all in the common interest. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the most unfair trade practice in Croatia in the last 10 years, I took it out six months ago in this House is that no foreign and food chain in Croatia has paid any taxes on profits to this country. All the domestic sales chains paid, what, so much. Why? People were shocked when I put it out, they couldn't believe it. Then who are the previous governments and this government protecting? I repeat it again tonight here and no one to do anything about it. They initially accumulated huge losses, this, that, and here they don't pay our taxes. And not only that, but the loss from Croatia or in their home countries is recognised as a tax deduction. Those transfer prices I teach in college are a problem, but they can get in pretty good. And what else is there to say? So we all need to approach this business together seriously. And in this context, prevent the destruction of small producers in our country, suppliers, from protecting domestic production and everything in gloves as others do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59513	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. Let's start in a row, the first respected representative is Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59514	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lovrinović, you as an economist should set up a replica like this or refer to it. I believe that in the recent Croatian history of economics, when I talk about economic issues and categories, we can highlight two important things. One about Mr. Shuker who's here, and that's the introduction of the OIB since early 2010, is a very important thing. And the other thing is, all the legal preconditions and since 2013 it's been a long time and all the technological conditions to resuscitate the e-account. If we really want to protect suppliers, despite these intentions and this law on unfair commercial practice, if we really want to protect suppliers that their goods, services, be paid in time, this will be possible by reviving truly e-accounts. Today, according to some data, only 10% of business entities are barats with this or... with an e-account. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As of next year, I think 2018 is about public procurement, commitment. Because the e-account will enable us, so ultimately and improved, we are now talking here, we have brought multiple amendments to the executive law, it will allow us in that part of the help because the e-account is an e-account, it simply has its own legality and when it turns out it is almost very difficult to avoid paying and it is a key problem for all suppliers. When they deliver the goods and the big ones, the big ones don't pay them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59515	The answer of the respected Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59516	Dear colleague Žagar you asked an important question of payment, i.e., that we know when it developed, began to develop not a culture of payments or culture of not paying in Croatia as a way of personal development. In the debate in Croatia, a kind of credit is most often forgotten, the credits of banks, foreign loans, these, they, but the supplier's credit is not mentioned and we see in the example of Agrokor and other systems that it has in fact become the most extensive form of lending, i.e. through its depletion of suppliers, and for the personal, own development of its own company. I think the information that's working, you mentioned the OIB, why not use the OIB. Well, because then it would come to anything. But we see that political structures haven't wanted it since. Because some of them would probably knock on the door, that's the problem. That's why it's good to think on the same line right now. So I want this law to be as good as possible, more constructive. But it doesn't mean anything to us, it won't mean anything to any of these laws unless it's sanctioned in this case, the practice of non-payment. There were even before they made certain provisions, I don't know which was the Minister of Finance which is, so I think it was up to 60 days if I'm not mistaken there was a provision that had to be paid. But he ate a donkey wolf. The key problem of this country is in the judiciary, now that I'm not opening that topic. The laws are passed. We even have good laws, but the law, this law is not implemented, this one is not sanctioned, and that's where things get lost. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59517	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59518	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Lovrinović, here you have pointed out the risks that can arise during the application of this law and we are aware and should be warned. In fact, we are warning in a way that the application of the law will open up space, in fact by manipulating some new models that the legislator could not recognize at this time. And for that, here, and I was pointing out that we have to be ready to get something new that needs to be classified, it has to be point-blank. We cannot wait two years for an impact assessment, but as soon as a particular problem is seen, we need to react and integrate it into the law immediately and thus prevent them from coming into existence. If they see that we're going to prevent any form, then they're actually going to give up. And an even bigger problem that you well point to is the problem of transfer prices which, unfortunately here too, I do not see an honest real modality to prevent because we should then really have a stronger impact on the structures of the European Commission to recognise these problems. Because such small markets do not play a significant role in some large trade chains developed in the EU cannot be defended from the low prices they can transfer and thus manipulate. Of course, the fact that their country of origin allows them to use tax relief is another reason for them to do this intensively to us. All this leads to one day destroying domestic competition. Of course, these political conjectures, political conjectures, for example, such as in our system of Agrokora or Konzum, are still in their hands. Where they push, that's where manipulation comes in, and we're getting harder and harder and harder, actually, getting in a harder position. I hope here we will help these domestic chains that exist to resist, and these phenomenal forms of transfer pricing and consolidation affect the Commission as a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59519	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59520	Dear counterpart Panenic, transfer prices are one of the key problems of the modern world not only Croatia. They are widely used in the practice of multinational companies. I'll just be here maybe for someone who doesn't know it, we're not all economists say that they form according to the level of profit tax in a particular country. What's the logic? If in some country A and B, if in country A is a profit tax 10%, and in country B profit tax 15%, then for the same product the same company in country B will deliver the same product at a higher price. Why? To narrow down the so-called. the price difference as the basis of taxation and thus the trade chains practically record loss, imagine. But if someone doesn't realize that I'm a Croatian economic nationalist, even though my views are firm about the protection of the domestic economy, I want to commend here a foreign company that shows its income well, pays taxes. It's this drugstore brandt DM, so here's what I don't want to do for them, but there's something to commend. This second gentlemen once again I warn you, that is, the government and the authorities to do something about it. And my colleague Panenic, when you said that it was not, the European Commission will not be able to question the reality of the transfer prices. This has to be done by our IRS. The Japanese put such a headache on multinational companies to freak out of them. Therefore, our tax administration needs to train young people, it doesn't take too long to be like ants industrious, resilient, and believe that much will prove and force tax money, through government tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59521	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59522	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lovrinović, I think we agree and that you've detected the problem well. These problems of the European Union are just beginning, as you said, starting to be a topic. No harmonised regulatory access. We can guess why, there's probably some interests out there that don't want to. However, it is unacceptable for our citizens to be second-rate citizens of the European Union in the quality of the product we consume. The same products, therefore the same brands sold in Europe, have different ingredients, better quality ingredients than those sold in Croatia often at a higher price. That's what we've been warning you about. So we need to do not only us as Croatia and the European Union in general steps in this problem. Another thing, I find it amazing that in the Federal Republic, Germany is generally cheaper than in one Croatia. In Croatia, which first produces a lot of food products, so we have a relatively strong food industry, and the second one, Germany, which is more expensive in some other things than Croatia, is cheaper in food products. Unfortunately, some chains when they entered our market were working consciously... The price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, they generated losses, sold products at a price lower than the market's conscious doing so to destroy competition. Now that the competition is practically messed up, when it's gone, now I can do whatever they want. These and similar laws and our competition protection agency and the resolution ministry need to make additional efforts, so that they cannot dictate all market conditions, i.e. that they cannot actually take extra money from the monopoly and the agreed monopoly from our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59523	Thank you. The esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59524	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, we are focusing on why we are talking about the same product, which should be the same for rich EU countries, rich European families, poorer. Well, it's obviously an estimate that poor people have a better stomach, so it won't hurt them that much, and it'll be cheaper. So he'll forget some of the trouble. But as an economist, I know one thing for sure, and I'm told that the goods that are already there at the end, you have to destroy them somewhere, store them, do something, and that's often expensive. Then it's cheaper... give a chain in Croatia or a neighbouring country here, and that's why it comes to this phenomenon, that people watch, so how, so impossible, so we can't do it at that price. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, of course, if that, I'm sorry, I'll say the word trash, we can't produce quality healthy food, when we talk about food, the same product at that price. But what should we do? Already at the border, respected colleagues and colleagues, you remember that our veterinary inspection had little trucks that could do all the checking and immediately at the border allow entry. There's no more of that, no more of those trucks. So this lobby that's importing food, it's starting to run, and unfortunately, I see the Minister of Agriculture trying there, but you see neither is anyone punished, let alone detained for that matter. That's why I'm calling for law enforcement, which is why I told the Food Rightness Act to stop this competition at the borders, what? Once a rotten slave, a dumpling slave, and then it will be, then our healthy food producers will be really happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59525	Thank you. The next replica, the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've been through a lot, and I kind of agree, but I'd make things right. You mentioned that you should pass a monopoly law. Now what you've been talking about so far and what you've described as a monopoly is actually much closer to the cartels. So I guess you were thinking about the situation where you have several entrepreneurs agreeing on prices, etc. Now what I would point out is that we have a law called the Law on the Protection of Competitions, as well as the Law on Mandatory Relations, which already has many mechanisms, to prevent such things. It means not only that price agreements are prohibited, but that they are prohibited and harmonised actions, etc. They just need to be more accurate and better spent. What is the gain of this law in relation to the existing regulation is that it is now very detailedly prescribed infringements. So it's clear what kind of injury it is. So there are no more doubts about interpretations, interpretations, etc. Although a large part of this can be derived from existing laws. And I think it's extremely important for you to specify. Also this part concerning transfer prices. So transfer prices are a problem across the EU. But, which is why, because what is the fundamental problem is that some countries use lower income taxes, either at a lower rate or at a lower base, to achieve their comparative advantage, and then companies use it to transfer the activity to those countries, etc. It is very difficult to pass regulation at European level, as taxes are decided unanimously by the Council of Ministers, and some countries have been blocking the unification for years. So in that part, the countries are unfortunately still left at bay, i.e. they have to regulate themselves in some way, but these cross-border transports are in practice very difficult to regulate and should be mentioned. And in the end, food control means control and regularity. So that possibility exists and it's possible by European contracts, but what's important is that you explain very well where the danger is. So you find an example that from some country, there's a risk that there are worse standards there, etc. And then you can justify it. But you must have some excuse. You can't possibly say, we'll control everything there is danger of a court, all of them are less quality than we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59527	Thank you. The answer of the respected Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59528	Here's my dear colleague, I'm sorry, you're obviously new here, I've never seen you before. Or I don't see you often, but okay, sorry. It's not a matter of transfer prices to be prescribed by this law. Well, that's impossible to sign. It's a question of persuasion, it's a matter of expertise, knowledge, skills, tax inspections to do so. So there's no opposing opinion here, just to determine that tax methods exist, that with d I don't give a lecture on how to determine the reality of the purchase price from abroad. These are known techniques and methods, there's nothing foreign. It's just a question of how much our tax authorities know or don't know. And if they know, whether to apply or not. As far as food control is concerned, these are some invaluable things that affect whether something will come, and then disrupt prices on the domestic market. Well, it's impossible to control everything, it's completely blocked everything from then on. But I haven't, I repeat, in the last year, seen nowhere to be published except for a few of those when power changed, when she was one demonstration. Here, now we're gonna do something, and after that, I didn't see anything, and I'm worried about it. That's the problem. And when we talk about monopolies, cartels, so look at the telecoms, look, this is essentially what they are, they form a cartel monopoly price, and on the other hand you have products that are really individual retail chain monopolically holding, not all but individual products that. So I want to determine the next thing, we're going to support what's good, quality, adopt what's reasonable, smart to get out of this Parliament what's applicable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59529	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59530	Dear colleague Lovrinović. If we go back far into the past in the times of Confucius on a scale of social values, the trade was the lowest rank, so we understand each other. Unfortunately, this lowest-ranking activity today rules the world and this law certainly will not solve the problems of unfair trade, it may open up some cheeks and close some channels, but much will remain open. I wouldn't be surprised if I were you why they didn't show the profit chain because we let them have their own warehouses in our malls, especially those with technical goods. So please, get in those chains and see how many machines and tools there are. Well there are machines and tools for ten Croatian needs, but we are their warehouse and they will never do business here with profits, but there they have export for storage or placed trade in another country. And why would the EU want to regulate it very, very badly now? Well, it's not in her interest. Her trade chains beat up the competition. But let's not talk about our competition, neither Pevec has any tools, nor the technical goods of Croatian producers and he does the same, so the import lobby is at stake. I agree with you and I support this story that it is not only an unfair food trade but it is a much, much wider problem and I think that this amendment is very acceptable for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59531	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59532	Dear colleagues of Hrelja, here are examples of the warehouse, so let's say to the modern world of multinational companies they will use everything and what is not explicitly forbidden and it is simply so, they will use for their business all the resources and all the production factors in the way they conclude that they should. They have become global engineers, Japan has nothing of resources, and it produces many products superior to high value added. Why? Because he diversified the production, the acquisition of resources and profited from it. Where are we? So that's exactly what needs to be emphasized, let's first of all call it not only in food supply but generally in the supply of all products. If other suppliers of foreign chains were to be analyzed, then things wouldn't be right there. Let's not keep scratching, let's not do things partially, this is a good intensity to round up this law, let's already compose it, but not in a way this is proposed by Lovrinović or Hrelja, it can't be they're in opposition, right? If that's the way it's supposed to be, we'll never get to the green branch. So let's start thinking, we've got smart people, we've got the determination that no one's pulling us around anymore than some waist, knowledge and those people who are qualified tomorrow in the business of the IRS, etc. Let them pass the law, and let's do it right. And otherwise, when you mentioned ancient times and traders, they were banned from any public function or even coming, entering certain places, until we were talking about bankers etc. But it's for another occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59533	Thank you very much. And now she will finally speak to the esteemed State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Ms. Marija Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59534	Thank you very much. The esteemed ladies' MPs and gentlemen's representatives. I thank you all for the constructive discussion, the suggestions that were made especially in the first reading of which we have appreciated most of what you have presented today. In my closing statement, although there was a broader context here, I will concentrate on the Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, briefly repeat that, as no European country, we are precisely counting all unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, we are protecting suppliers, Croatian suppliers by defining mandatory contract and minimum elements of each contract and defining as that body that implements the procedure of the Agency for the Protection of Competition and Administrative Penal Measures, perhaps because of the shortcomings you mentioned, which they have or could have to do with the judiciary, just-punishing measures that are non-infringinging nature, which are infringements of sui generis and thus we think that the law will be implemented more effectively and faster and of course we intend to monitor how it is implemented and change something if there are needs. I also want to say, although it may not be serious that we have received amendments now, yet we will stick to the food supply chain, which we as the Ministry of Agriculture are dealing with, it includes primary agricultural products and the food industry. These are the disorders we're trying to reduce with this law because we're not going to solve it entirely. We'd solve all the problems, we'd have to raise the competitiveness of the structural funds, we'd be more efficient at spending direct support, we'd have to take care of everything that you've been talking about today. As far as the right to change the purchase price, I don't think anyone in this law has prevented the annex of any contract and that it cannot be unilaterally defined as the right to change the price. And as for the definition of suppliers if we leave out suppliers from abroad, then we cannot control all the prices throughout the supply chain and thus we will not achieve the basic purpose of this law. Here, although we will look at it more seriously and in more detail, but I wanted to explain it because all these provisions have been reviewed along the way in a very broad committee and we have been open to all the remarks regardless of who suggested them. I thank you all once again for the support you have shown this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59535	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59536	Dear Secretary of State, it's more of a supplement or a more precise saying than a replica. You said that in this law you counted all unfair or all cases of unfair trade in food supply last year. I would be more precise, so I would say we succeeded as a society or as competent institutions so far to detect and they are born daily new and new, of course, but we have to be a little bit more modest because surely we can't do everything because at least I didn't see that we publicly explained the patterns of unfair trade had in this context a public debate. Secondly, I would like to say from your final report that only when we were able to give or when my colleague Lovrinović could give amendments is about the second reading of the law to someone is always too late, but they are always welcome and even when you reject them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59537	Here, thank you. Now I'll conclude the debate on this point and we'll vote when you get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59538	Final proposal of the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, second reading, P.Z. 144. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Lovrinovic. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us we have respected Marija Vuckovic in State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. We're starting amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59539	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office, Amendment No 1 is not accepted and is related to the amendment of the name of the law, in accordance with the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, as a resolution body for agricultural and agricultural affairs. The aim and purpose of this law is to establish, ensure and protect fair commercial practices in the food supply chain, which has been significantly disrupted by large concentrations and vertical integrations in the last decade.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59540	Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59541	Here I am sorry that this proposal was not accepted because yesterday, in the late hours I said, I suggested that this law be called as follows the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the supply chain. What does that mean? So these other chains that don't deal with food, they have a fair trade, it's only unfair in the supply of food. But you just said that the initiator of this law is the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59542	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59543	So they're talking... MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59544	Well, that's almost quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59545	That's almost quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59546	I'm sure it's quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59547	If that's Mr. President's silence and you tolerate this kind of thing, this voting machine doesn't make sense for me to say I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59548	A colleague of Lovrinović's was quite tolerable in relation to the situations we have and I appeal constantly and beg the representatives and ask them again now to be collegiate and to have someone speak from colleagues and colleagues not to be really loud. But I can't repeat it from minute to minute, now I've estimated it was quite a good sound, so I haven't responded, but I wouldn't like you to give up the debate now, but I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to be quiet as others speak. Would you like a vote? ... Please join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I find that this amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so we move on to the second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59549	The second amendment is not accepted. By adopting the amendments to the provisions of this law, they would not refer to the monitoring of the business of traders with foreign suppliers and could therefore lead to a distortion of trade flows solely towards foreign suppliers, which would not be favourable to domestic suppliers. At the same time, Article 12 of point 14 as an unfair commercial practice is defined as selling below any purchase price in the whole supply chain, and thus is defined as a supplier including suppliers from abroad in order to monitor and purchase the price in an offshore account.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59550	Do you want to vote? Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. Neither did this amendment get a sufficient number of votes. We're going to Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59551	Amendment number three is not accepted. The price of the product is defined as the mandatory element of the contract in the final draft law, in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Relations, which regulates the buy-in contract. The price should be determined or determined or there should be a minimum number of data sufficient to clearly determine the price and thus the price is defined in this law as a mandatory element of the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59552	Do you want to be obvious?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59553	I don't want to, I'm not happy. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59554	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get enough votes. We're moving on to the Fourth Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59555	Amendment No 4 shall not be accepted for the same reason as Amendment 3. Therefore, the price has been established by this final proposal of the law as a mandatory element of the contract to be clearly defined or determined in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59556	The obvious?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59557	So now I want to say two sentences, I see that the auditorium on the left has calmed down, that it has not only come to vote, raise your hands but also hear something. It may offend one of you gentlemen, but that's what you are. After this point is over, you'll get out of here, won't you? I waited until I didn't want to comment on the past two points, and I'm sorry you didn't accept anything. This shows that as an opposition we really do change Croatia, see we are making constructive proposals, yesterday in my presentation I presented a whole series of constructive proposals, it is not clear why you refused everything, and how did you quickly discuss it from six to seven hours to today? Here we go, I'll continue to make proposals constructive. You see, I've submitted five amendments, I assume you won't accept this last one, and it's obviously only important for the amendment whether it comes from the opposition or from the ruling majority. If he comes out of opposition no matter how good he is, useful, he will be rejected. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59558	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59559	So in this case he'll be rejected, right? But it doesn't matter we'll be persistent, I'll be persistent in constructive proposals, I'll offer knowledge, expertise, suggestions. And believe me, I've consulted on this bill with manufacturers, small merchants, big, really great experts, and I'm sorry that none of this is respected, and that would certainly be helpful in the final law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59560	You're asking for a vote, I presume? Then let's vote on Amendment 4 which the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. Then let's go to the last 5th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59561	Amendment number 5 is not accepted. It proposed amending points 4, 5, 16, 22 of Article 12 which defines unfair commercial practices and adding a new four points under headings 25, 26, 27 and 28. In point 4, it is not accepted because the proportionate carrying out of any administrative costs in the conclusion of contracts that may or may not arise is not unfair commercial practice and we consider it fair to be borne by both parties in a proportionate relationship. The amendment shall not be accepted in so far as the provisions of this Act define the place of delivery as a mandatory element of the contract in Articles 5 and 6 and cannot be supplied outside the contracted place of delivery. In point 16 of the amendment is also not accepted because we consider it to be a normal and acceptable settlement between traders and suppliers, one that depends on the real and measurable effect of the trader and has a specific value for the supplier. In point 22 of the amendment is also not accepted because the terms of the contract are laid down in Articles 4 and 5. Final proposal of the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. This point includes the definition of unfair commercial practice which is in no way related to any form of termination of the contract. The new points 25, 26, 27 and 28 cannot be accepted because it is a proposal for practices which are very difficult to prove, and it is also partly a proposal for practices that can be interpreted as limiting the freedom of competition, particularly in that section relating to the determination of margins.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59562	Thank you. Time's up. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59563	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I shouldn't have been anything psychic to predict that even our last proposal would not be accepted. I'm just distracting while there's almost a full assembly here today. I said again, this is like the first law against unfair commercial practices. I will support it and our party, however, it is not good not to accept an amendment that will further improve. And why did we propose this? So be sure, here it will remain written, that it will begin especially large trade chains now more import goods from abroad is going to say this is all reregulated, and we've been working through these constructive proposals to do so that we don't. Therefore, unemployment will start to grow and production will be weakened by domestic producers especially small and medium-sized. This is why I regret that no amendment that is constructive, which is good of opposition cannot pass. And if by any chance I had supported this coalition, you know, it would have gone without a problem. Let's not work like this, let's not. Let's be, we're working in the interest of the citizens of my people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59564	I suppose you want to vote, so let's also vote on this fifth amendment that the government doesn't accept. I also find that this amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so I am voting on the final draft law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. Please, let's vote. I find that by a majority of the 116 votes, five abstentions have been passed by the Law on the ban on unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59565	The next item is: - Proposed candidates for the selection of Ombudsmans for children is Proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports on the basis of Article 24. It's a law about a child's attorney. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yes, the Honorable Vice-President of the Maria Puh Committee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59566	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the provisions of Article 24(2). The Law on the Ombudsman for Children at the 13th session of the Committee held on 18 October 2017, established a proposal for candidates for the selection of the Ombudsman for children and we propose the following candidates for the children: Tatjana Holjevac and Helenica Pirnat Dragicevic. In fact, the Croatian Parliament is based on the provision of Article 24(1). The Law on the Ombudsman for Children published a public call for the election of counsel for children. The public invitation was published on the Croatian Parliament's website on 1 September 2017 and in the National Journal 88/17 of 1 September 2017. The deadline for the application was 15 days from the day of publication in the National Journal, and the last day for the application was 16 September 2017. The calls came in in due time for applications from the next candidates. Tatjana Holjevac, Hrvoje Jukić, Zdravko Miocevic, Helena Pirnat Dragicevic and Vanja Slepčević Saftić. At the 10th session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports held on 29 September 2017, it was established that all 5 candidates arrived in a timely manner and that all 5 candidates met the conditions for the selection of guardians for children established by the Law on the Ombudsman for children. On 5 October 2017 and 12 October 2017, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports held a meeting of the 12th meeting of the Committee to which all candidates were invited for public talks. During the talks, members of the board asked candidates questions on the basis of which they gained the impression of candidates as professionals and persons. In view of the fact that the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport is based on the provision of Article 24(2). The Law on the Ombudsman for Children lays down the proposal of at least two candidates for the Ombudsman for children, at the 13th session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports held on 18 October 2017, a debate was held and a secret vote on the proposed candidates. After the debate was held and the secret vote on candidates for the Ombudsman for children, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports found that all the members present had submitted ballots and a proposal for candidates for the selection of the Ombudsmans for children had been established. When setting out the proposals for candidates, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports took into account the observed excellence highlighted in the résumé of a particular candidate and the public conversation impression. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Ombudsman for children, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports provides a proposal for candidates for the selection of children's defenders to the Croatian Assembly. As I have already stated, the candidates are Tatjana Holjevac and Helena Pirnat Dragicevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59567	Thank you. We have one replica of esteemed Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59568	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. "Learn foreign languages and run away with your head regardless, I could order this," former lawyer Ivana Milas-Klaric said on the parliamentary board, and I think everything is said why we changed it. It will probably be a debate on this subject, but I must say that this is one of the attorneys who has been appointed by the Kukuriku coalition, which has been well paid, she orders children to leave Croatia at the end of the term of office. So I am extremely pleased that we have come in a position to choose a new candidate, we have two great candidates, I am sure next Friday the Croatian Parliament will choose the best and we will not hear any more of these statements from the Ombudsman for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59569	The reply of the respected representative of Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59570	Dear colleague Zekanovic, today we are discussing the election of the Ombudsman for children and we have presented the candidates we have and who have proposed to us, who we ourselves voted on the board. I think it's neither the time nor the place to talk about people who had previously acted as guardians for children, I believe that they all acted as best as they could and knew. And I really wouldn't be going into any personal accounts right now because I think this point today has no basis and it's inadmissible to discuss it. As we had to pass a new law because of the Constitutional Court's decision, we had to make a public appeal to the Ombudsman for the children. Here today we have before us a proposal from the candidates and I and you and all the other colleagues and colleagues to discuss the Committee's proposal, not the past and the topic that is not really on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59571	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first one will be a respected representative, Zeljka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59572	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. From the vice president of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, we have heard what are the two candidates or candidates for a child counsel. As regards the HDZ Club, of course, we will support these two candidates and as a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, I took part in this public call or in a conversation with the candidates. What I can say as my own personal impression on this speaker is that we have quite few candidates who are interested in this very important and valuable function, but each of these candidates these five, whom the Vice-President of the Committee stated, were all in contact with children or worked with children during their work. These two candidates who have been elected, I believe that any one of them will serve as a child's attorney to carry out their job with responsibility and quality. I would only mention that both of them are lawyers for those you don't know. Mrs. Holjevac did one part, most of her work with foreign children or children without escorts. While the other candidate, Helena Pirnat Dragicevic, worked mostly at the State's Attorney's Office where she also met with children's problems. Mrs Dragicevic also participated in the development of the National Strategy for the Rights of Children in the Republic of Croatia and was a member until the beginning of 2016 and took part in or followed the issue of all forms of domestic violence, then among children violence against women. I will only mention one more time, except that this function is extremely important she deals with the rights and interests of the child and I think we should all be in the best interest to be guided by this very fact that we need to protect all rights and interests of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59573	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59574	Dear colleagues. I agree with you that there were few candidates, since the formal legal conditions were quite modest and all of us were amazed that there were few candidates, and I could just attribute it to a climate that was created right at the shift of the last attorney, but also to what I just said to her statements that she made online after she knew she would be resolved or after her report had not been adopted. Here you'd still be a little reference to a fellow Pooh who said it's neither the time nor the place. It's time and place, it's two things that are extremely connected, maybe somebody's not happy to hear it, but that's how it is. And no personal account, I Mrs. Milas Klaric saw for the first time a few weeks ago on the board, and after those statements she made and what little dilemma of whether to stay or not, I bet I should go. And as for the candidates who are coming to us, I think we have two candidates who, like you said, both have experience working with children. Ms. Helena Pirate Dragicevic comes from the State's Attorney's Office while Mrs. Tatjana Holjevac has been working very hard to provide legal assistance to children without escorting or foreign citizens. So whatever we choose, I don't think we're going to make a mistake and we're going to get a great lawyer for the kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59575	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59576	Thank you. Well, colleague Zekanovic, I will still look back on our current candidates, and I really believe that what we have chosen on the board that we have chosen well and that it will be quality in its work, or one of them. And as for Attorney General Milos Klaric, she did good things in her work and I wouldn't look back at what she said in the media, but here I am more for not throwing dust at everything that's been done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59577	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59578	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members Josic, you said in your statement that you have actually expressed in some way regret or disdain with a small number of candidates or candidates who have called for a new lawyer or a new prosecutor for children. Unfortunately, it does not surprise me at all, given the circumstances under which we have come to choose a new lawyer and that the term of office of the previous lawyer has not actually ended. It is not easy to make a public call where a function that is actually quite politicised in the meantime and where your mandate depends on the majority of parliament and where you will have to be quite obvious about what you will indicate, how you will talk about it so that you will not be punished, that I do not say replaced by what you will say or write in the reports and what will not be liked by the ruling majority. It took a lot of courage for people who have applied for a new lawyer, i.e. the Ombudsman, because they simply enter a job where the atmosphere is created that they are no longer an independent institution, such as the impression, but that they are in fact very much under the glass of politics and that at any moment this policy can tell them, thank them, say goodbye and send them home in the middle of the term as well as Mrs. Ivana Milos Klaric and choose someone else or third who will write something that will like the ruling majority more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59579	The answer of the respected representative Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59580	I can agree with you that at one point the Ombudsman's institution was truly politicized. But you and I know the same reasons that stand in the Law on the Ombudsman and from which one is being replaced with certain functions. And you also know why the law was passed in an emergency procedure. I agree that candidates who have reported that they have had to have great courage to report, but in my view, these functions are still those functions, i.e. the institutions of all defenders independent and cannot depend and depend neither on the political party nor on a particular majority. I am sorry that there is such an impression in the public that a certain majority changes the way they want someone but the law is very clear and as far as I am concerned, everyone who wanted it could have come forward regardless of the courage or not the courage, including Mrs. Milos Klaric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59581	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59582	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The SDP representative club was not involved, i.e. members and members of the SDP Representatives Club, who were members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports did not participate in the election process and then proposed these two candidates to the Croatian Assembly for New Advocates for Children. This does not mean that some of these candidates are not better quality and that they will not be able to behave with dignity and credibility as attorney for children. Our choice of not to participate in this process was a sign of a protest that we are actually choosing a new lawyer at the moment simply because a special law was passed to suspend the term of office in half of its term of office and it was politically changed. Making specific laws for political dealings with people who need to do work independently and taking care of such an important topic as protecting and improving children's rights is something we don't have to be proud of, which is what we should be ashamed of. And we won't be participating tomorrow unless there's a vote on the new Attorney General, or the D.A.'s office. This does not mean that we are against the people who will come to Ivana Milas Klaric, that means that we are against the atmosphere of fear and political pressure under which these people will undoubtedly be because everything that has been done these two months has actually been done with that intention to be a strong message that the work of independent institutions is no longer independent of politics but that you need to be careful about politics. And that is why here is unfortunately for the first time I think in the history of the Croatian Parliament and this process of election of defenders we are not ready to participate in this process. And I hope that this is the first and last case where independent institutions are treated like this and people who try to do their job independently in this kind of political, political way. And we want a lot of success and happiness in the work and a lot of courage to resist political pressures and not agree to the atmosphere of fear, political blackmail and political pressures, but to restore dignity to the institution of the Ombudsman for children and to work independently on improving the rights, rights of children, regardless of who is in most of the Croatian Parliament today and who will be it tomorrow. Only by criticising the institutions can we awaken them, point out mistakes or failures or insufficient engagements that work on the protection of children's rights, silence and fear of those who manage these institutions at that time can we do nothing good for the position of children, children in Croatia. That's why we want a new defender, or new lawyer, to have a lot of perseverance and courage. It will be elected here by a political majority but that only the interests of children are guided on this path, regardless of who makes the majority in the Croatian Parliament at that time. regardless of who makes the majority in the Croatian Parliament at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59583	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59584	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues and I warmly hope that the term of office of the future attorney will be full and that what happened to the last prosecutor will not happen, that her report will be accepted, or that she will be accepted by all as many as eight years as she will be who I hope will be elected tomorrow. You said the situation over the election of this attorney, or the shift last year, was politicized. So don't forget that politics has just set up the last D.A., so no one else but politics. So she actually made it back to that family through a whole series of her statements, through her work. I'm not going to say that she did everything wrong that Josic said, and I agree she did a lot of things and protected many children's rights through her work. And when I talk about independent functions, that's right, some functions have to be independent. But here the law is explicit. The report is accepted, not accepted. If the report is not accepted by the Advocate General, the term of office shall be lost. You will not participate in the vote, but you have participated in the defense of our former lawyer and quite actively, so I don't know what the non-participation in the vote is now. And the fear atmosphere I don't know who's producing it, and I don't think anyone on the board who voted for these proposed two candidates has anything to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59585	The answer of the esteemed representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59586	My colleague Zekanovic, I was not involved in the defence of the former lawyer. I took part in the defence of an independent lawyer institution, regardless of what he or she was called, I will continue to do so. This has nothing to do with the person Ivana Milas Klaric. In the report on her work, we discussed it. But I repeat, I have not defended Ivana Milas Klaric, I have defended and will defend the independence of the institutions. What you who are part of the ruling majority among others are dangerous and seriously questioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59587	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59588	Thank you, well-respected representative of the Voice. Well, it's interesting how the representatives of the HDZ line wonder that so few people appeared in the competition, namely two. It's a miracle those two picked up, too. Because it is interesting that Croatia has 180 000 unemployed, here it offers a salary of 30000 kuna gross and no one is interested in it. And how is that possible? We have so many educated people, I don't know tens of thousands of doctors, a magistrate, and no one wants to report to such an important function as you said. Now, that's not the only case. You have such competitions in Croatia as much as you want from national level to local level for one person to appear in the competition, and that one appears to be the one who corresponds to a particular political structure. And this shows in fact that public competitions in Croatia don't work at all, that people simply realized that only a fool can come to the competition because nothing is actually solved in any public competition, no professions, no references, but everything is settled at party meetings. And here's if you'd answered that contest, if I'd called anyway Mr. Hrelja, we'd know in advance, even if we didn't know what papers we didn't have, but not even 0.01% chance of being elected. And that's how it works, and people know it, and that's why they don't even answer anymore. But the sad thing is, you're right when you say it's how institutions crash. The saddest thing is that Prime Minister Plenkovic in his first address here, if you remember me, personally said that he would strengthen institutions, and here we see in practice that he is doing the opposite. So much for a credible HDZ policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59589	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59590	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, we have a lot of quality experts who could really take on the responsibilities of both the ombudsman and the ombudsman for Gender Equality, the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, the Ombudsman for children. However, I think we will face a smaller and smaller number of candidates and candidates who will report to these competitions. Look what the other night she had here, the veggie lawyer who was rejected here, but she can't be replaced because she's called that so-called roof attorney. Here she was lynched and called for her to stand down on her own. Now you see when people who have certain competences and could be candidates and candidates, quality candidates and candidates for Croatian defenders watch such debates in the Croatian Parliament, so they don't think of coming here, that someone throws mud at their profession first, their job, and ultimately human dignity. And that is what is the worst and saddest message that has been sent from this Croatian Parliament over the past year when we discussed the reports of all the defenders and culminated in the amendment of the Law on the Ombudsman, i.e. the Ombudsman for children. Fear is the devil and fear is not something that can, the atmosphere of fear is not something that can boost positive social values and positive people to contribute to any part of building a better Croatian society. Fear is only what quality people can answer, scare to take essential roles in this society, and thus loses the most society and the Republic, and the consequences of what is done today will only be seen unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59591	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maria Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59592	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague, Voter, I'd just like to remind you, not that I can't, because you pointed out that a special law has been passed because of the political budget. The law has not been passed at all because of the political budget, you know that it had to be passed a new law on the Ombudsman for children, for the reason that the Constitutional Court, the previous law, had made a decision, that no previous law had been passed with the procedure with which it was to be adopted. So it was not any law on the political budget, nor anything, but rather a law that must be passed on the Constitutional Court's order, up to the time limit set. And as for further depolitisation and independence, the institution of the Ombudsman for children, if you remember the club of the CNS, has given amendments, with which the election of lawyers is no longer proposed by the government's attorney for children to the Assembly. It's the Parliament itself who conducts the contest, the election and the debate. And here's why I have to say, I'm extremely sorry that you didn't participate in the interview of the candidates, because we really wanted to get to the best candidate by consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59593	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59594	Dear fellow Pooh. First, the Constitutional Court questioned the only and only way to vote the Law in the Croatian Parliament. Not his content. No one has forced you, the ruling majority, to put in a transitional and final provision to pass a new law, the term of office of the existing lawyer ceases. Point. Point. You didn't go with the same content as the appropriate majority. You were changing the contents, and you used the Constitutional Court as alibis to be able to deal with the Attorney General, that's first. Secondly, your amendment has led, that now, that her fate depends once a year on her report in the Croatian Parliament, as it has been so far. So, if once a year's debate in the Croatian Parliament, if they vote negatively, that it can be removed, you from the CNS have led to the fact that it can be replaced every month. Yes, the report, that your amendment, that the report can be requested to be submitted to the Croatian Assembly and more often than once a year, which opens the space, that its shift should follow more often than one year, as it has been so far. This law has been amended and, in a substantive sense, that provision has been amended. So give it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59595	Thank you very much. And the last replica, is the esteemed representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59596	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, in 2011, my colleague Glasovac, here was your Prime Minister, Zoran Milanović, and said when we asked as to why so many people had moved around 2830 people from the leading posts, from ministries, agencies, all institutions of state offices. Then he said, as far as I can remember, they came in with politics and politics when we leave, they'll leave. But he didn't, he changed the law after that and all those people stayed. So, what concerns me in your presentation, you're using one termology, which is not good. You know, political pressure, political fear. Tell me, other than this, because you passed this law in 2012 of course the Constitutional Court said this ended as such on August 1, 2017. The law must be adopted by an emergency procedure, and you yourself know that the Ombudsman knew that, unless the report is accepted, it would be removed, or it would be replaced itself. She was chosen by these conditions, the law you made, nothing special has changed. So absolutely nothing. The other thing is, let's just say, she's the lawyer herself, and you have to agree with that, and then she said, actually, what she said, she's talking about herself. And what you're saying, out of protest, you didn't want to vote, is actually talking about you. If you think that this lawyer is the only one qualified to be a child's attorney, then there's nothing good about you or us or the state itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59597	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59598	Dear counterpart Babic, state officials, comes and goes with politics. Okay. And no one's questioning it. Our ministerial assistants, our ministers, by conquering the hairs of the other option go home. And it's so natural. You have the right to appoint senior officials to conduct politics. But you've mixed pears and apples, you've mixed pears and apples. Which lawyer, lawyer or lawyer has SDP replaced as an independent institution before the end of the term of office? We want the prosecutor for the children, Mrs. Mili Jelavic, to complete her term of office, an eight-year term until the end. After that, he started a second procedure. This is the first time in the history of the election of attorneys, except for an extorted resignation of many years ago, it seems to me to be the first Ombudsman for children, this is the first time that the Ombudsman has been politically removed as a result of the mandate, in the middle of his term of office. And that's what we didn't tell you that was wrong, that's what the European Commissioner for Human Rights told you. For, among other things, the term of office of 8 years and guarantees inter alia the independence of the institution, because it is not dependent on a political four-year-old, let us call it the mandate of one government or one political option. So don't say exactly what doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59599	Thank you very much. An individual debate held by a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59600	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here, first a few colleagues of Bunjac, one small, did not listen well, so we will read to him again, so there were 5 candidates, no 2, Tatjana Holjevac, Hrvoje Jukić, Zdravko Miocevic, Helena Pirnat Dragicevic and Vanja Sljepčević Saftić, then two candidates were elected on the board, two of the best candidates, and these are Helena Pirnat Dragicevic and Tatjana Holjevac. Tomorrow, too, if God is to vote on them, we will choose the best, or better, than the two. As far as the shift is concerned, what counterpart Babic was saying, whether the policy had been set up or not. You forget, I'll do it, I've got a little prom, first of all, we'll know a little about who we're talking about when we talk about the former attorney general. Ivana Milas Klaric, I already said, was set up at the time of the coalition's corn and she received a large salary from it and eventually after she finished her work she told the children how to escape from Croatia. So that everything she built and created during her work, in fact at one last moment she was able to burn when she ordered, to those same children whose rights she defended from leaving their country. Let's go a little further, let's go back a little bit. The same person, Milas Klaric, rejected all 83 objections to the Family Law proposal, excuse me, all 83 objections to the Family Law proposal by Ms. Milas Klaric, rejected the meaning of the Constitutional Court because of the possible damages that would have caused her remarks. Let's move on, what else? Then she says at one point one association has an initiative not to touch children and the plan of the initiative was that parents are the ones who primarily decide to raise children. And then she's opposed and it's an association... He doesn't like it so he says, "Let the state do your homework and provide children with quality health care, you don't know what you're doing." [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Well, then later on, she didn't question enough, she called the city of Djakovo because she heard but didn't check because it wasn't true that the city of Djakovo was rewarding, for example. children who attended religious school with some free cards that was nonsensical, that was not normal. She called for example. Archbishop Barisic, because Archbishop Barisic at one point urged believers to baptize their children. And what should the archbishop do? He was supposed to invite the kids to come pick olives somewhere? Well, of course they'll invite the believers to baptize their children. So that's his job anyway, is it? With that, what's most important and I'm going to point out here means, it's set up at the time of the corn authorities and it's in each of hers, meaning engagement, work, action very much seen. So she was very well-coordinated with... who set it up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for that person's shift, you say political shift, it's perfectly legal and legitimate, it's in accordance with the law. Her report didn't accept this House here. She's automatically flying. So no more talking about it. So when you're talking about her being replaced by someone I have a feeling, someone who listens to this will say, so people someone illegally chased her away. But there's a law that's very clear if the report isn't accepted by the D.A. going bye-bye. So that Milas Klaric went bye-bye, and we have now, I will repeat Mr. Bunjac, 5 candidates, all great candidates, I would dare say that all for the spear are better than this person because there has been no sign of that policy that was very much burdensome for Mrs. Milas Klaric and that she will do her job in a very conscious manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59601	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59602	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zekanovic, that rhetoric you serve I don't know if it's the rhetoric of the street, the inn, saying that people fly from their functions, to wave at them bye-bye. So what are we in kindergarten to express ourselves like that? So what level is it to talk about people like that, institutions? I don't understand, give some seriousness, so you have some dictionary that's appropriate to this situation. Well, there's your Prime Minister, the one you worship, who said he'd regain trust in the institutions, and now you're sending us a message that everyone who doesn't suit you personally must simply leave your court of value because that's what you've decided. That's a very bad message. People have their mandates, and if you really want to trust institutions, build them, these mandates should be respected. And it's not a life sentence, it's limited to a certain time, and when that time goes by, then it can be replaced. And so you have not known the directors of the institution and what the directors are called and at the end of the parliamentary representatives and government. When the time comes then some new elections and new competitions are made and people are going. And this is obviously about your personal animosity, not to say revenge. You have, with a dictionary like this and with this low level of nonchalantness of speech to the Croatian Parliament, shown actually one thing, I would dare say a level of malice. This was pure malice. And so you're actually putting wind in the back of SDP agents who are accusing you that this was a political reckoning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59603	The answer of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59604	Dear Comrade Bunjac, if I'm not mistaken, you tried to change the entire government of the Republic of Croatia just a few days ago, right? And that was legitimate. So you only tried Minister Murganic, then Minister Maric, then Minister Barisic, before the time. And that wasn't your problem then. Here's where you get it... benefits from the same methods that you use that if someone doesn't respond to him, if he doesn't accept his report and by law it bothers you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there you have warned me about the vocabulary, is, I said it flies and so it is, I deliberately took advantage of the word and I said bye-bye on purpose, there's little to provoke you and obviously I succeeded. But I find it interesting here that you have called me a vocabulary, you and Mr. Pernar, your party that has such a beautiful one here, one performance is working for us, I would dare tell from us 151 MPs that you, or your colleague Pernar, are just the last because of the pulsism that you serve us daily, at one level that is ridiculous, at one infantile level to reprimand anyone for anything, especially the vocabulary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59605	The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59606	Comrade Zekanovic, you obviously do not understand the difference between an independent institution and a political game and it is saddening and it is saddening. And that's no wonder, because that's exactly why we're discussing what we're discussing today. And not only is it not enough for you that the attorney general for children has been temporarily replaced, by a special law lex specialis which was created only to be replaced by the law, which you said nothing was done against the law. Well, of course nothing illegal was done when you wrote a law special in a transitional and final provision that would shorten her mandate, all in accordance with the law. We've seen these things both in conversion and privatisation. Secondly, you're still liquefiing, so you just didn't write her a political indictment, now you're finally here on behalf of the ruling majority, I guess you said what all of her sins were about to be removed, but now you're even exulting. So she still doesn't give you peace, like you're dreaming of her and you won't stop doing it. But the truth does only one thing, when we talk about the Family Law because it's obviously the biggest crime of the D.A.'s office, tell us if the Constitutionals have made a decision to this day on what members of the family's law at the time are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia? I'll answer you no, so don't deceive the Croatian public. He just suspended the law until the moment the decision was made that the right of the Buddha was never made, so don't plant it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59607	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59608	Dear colleagues of the Voices, he did not say I agree that it was controversial, but since it was even 83 of the observations involved, it is clear to conclude that it was more or less controversial and that it was precisely the reason that the Constitutional Court stopped it. But you speak independently, and the problem is that she wasn't independent. I mentioned a few reasons before why I think she wasn't independent. She was supposed to be independent as an institution, unfortunately she wasn't, and she was very dependent on politics, and she knew very well who set her up, and she did well to return that policy to her being put where she was. As for liquefying, well you used the word liquefying, I'll say I'm glad, I'm glad we're able to choose a new lawyer, I'm glad that when a person is relieved she told the children of Croatia to leave the country it's not and I'm really glad about it. If you use the word liquefying then I'll be free to say I'm liking over it, let it be and to liquefy. I don't dream of Mrs. Miles, nor told anyone before that I first met her here on the board. But I don't understand that you can justify the person who ended up here in her last address to the Croatian children what she said. Now, I have to admit that I'm sorry, that I'm sorry that maybe at least in your replicas you could have said at some point you shouldn't have said that because that's the thing then point on and that's not maybe in some things you could justify, and she really said at some point I really deserve to take a shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59609	Thank you. We'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59610	Now, let's move on, then, to the proposal of the candidates for the election of the Ombudsman for children, the applicant is the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports. Comrade Bauk, you asked for a break. Tell me first what's the topic? We can't right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59611	The topic is the position on the election of a child's guardian candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59612	Well, would you like to speak right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59613	I'll do it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59614	Is anyone else picking up? Are you agreeing to leave without a break? You got it. Here you go. SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59615	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will not take part in the vote on this agenda item. Therefore, they will not participate in the selection of a new Ombudsman, i.e. the Ombudsman for children. We thus show resistance to the way in which the former Advocate General, a special law that was passed for her, was suspended in half of the term of office. We have nothing personal against candidates who are addressed as proposals from the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports to the Croatian Assembly, among which we will choose a lawyer, i.e. a new prosecutor for children, but we have very much against the atmosphere of fear and political pressure, in which the new lawyer will work. So, we would like to congratulate in advance the Ombudsman who will be elected today in the Croatian Parliament, but we do not wish to also say that she does not agree to arrive, that she does not agree to work in the atmosphere of fear and to retain the dignity, independent institutions of the Ombudsman for children and not to let what happened to the previous, her predecessors, which is one political shift, not to let her, how politics cheers and dresses and may change you at any time, when in your report you write something that does not like the ruling majority, in fact not to agree to such rules of the game, but to be guided by its function, as attorneys for children, an independent function. And that its only task is to take care of children's rights in Croatia, to work to improve children's rights in Croatia and to call on institutions that do not do their job well enough to protect and improve those rights. And to try, to improve the work of institutions, to actually achieve the same goal. This is me thinking for the first time that the SDP Club does not participate in the election of defenders, but it simply led us to this kind of resistance that something is happening in the Croatian Parliament and in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the fact that a very small number of new candidates appeared as a new lawyer, i.e. the Ombudsman for children. Although there are people who could, with honor, with dignity and quality, behave that duty, but I suppose, that their expertise and their human dignity, they don't want to put on such a political test, when we see how the environment was actually created. We strive to do so, and we will insist that all independent institutions remain that way and that political pressures are reduced, no matter who at this time today or who has acted tomorrow and has made the majority in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59616	Okay. It was the SDP Representatives' Club. We're going to the vote now. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament determines the rule of conduct of a secret vote in the case where the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number to be elected, that is, Article 260. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Article 260 to Article 267 shall apply. Madam and gentlemen, I would like to ask three MPs to help conduct the secret vote, namely Marko Sladolev, Zarko Tušek and Boris Milosevic. So they'll be right next to the boxes. You can download voting papers in the Great Hall, where the ballot boxes are, here we will vote, given that we have journalists in front of us, so we wouldn't be there, there's not enough room. Just a little further, just a little while longer, I remind the MPs that only one ballot can be voted on and only for the candidates listed on the ballot. A valid ballot is a ballot from which in a safe and unequivocal manner can be identified as a candidate for whom the MP voted. The MP votes by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name. We're voting 20 minutes and there'll be results afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the election vote for the Ombudsman's election for the children is over. I declare that of the 151 voters, 86 MPs received the ballot, 86 MPs voted, and the invalid ballots were 3. Candidates received the following number of votes: Tatjana Holjevac 0 votes, Helena Pirnat Dragicevic 83 votes. So I declare that helica Pirnat Dragicevic has been elected as attorney for the children and I congratulate her on behalf of parliamentary representatives and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59617	And we move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a law on the transfer of pension rights, second reading, P.Z.E. number 127. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System Mrs Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59618	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Reiner. Respected and respected representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So before us is the final proposal of the Law on the transfer of pension rights. In this respect, EU membership has opened up the possibility of hiring citizens of the Republic of Croatia in EU bodies, and thus the need to regulate the possibility of transposing pension rights to ensure the continuity of social security rights for those citizens, and since those persons are not subject to the provisions on the coordination of the social security system. Following this final proposal, the matter of the transfer of compulsory pension insurance pension rights to the Republic of Croatia prior to the employment of EU institutions in pension insurance applicable to EU officials and officials as well as the transfer of pension rights from EU pension insurance to the pension insurance of the Republic of Croatia following the termination of employment in EU bodies, and all to avoid losing their acquired rights. Employment and rights of the social security system of persons employed in EU bodies have been governed by Regulation 259/68 of the EU Council laying down rules for the employment of employees and officials who oblige Member States to compensate for the pension contributions paid before the employment of EU bodies to staff employed in those bodies. The very method of calculating pension rights transferred from the national system to the EU pension system has been left at the choice of the Member States while the method of calculating the pension rights transferred from the EU system to the national pension system has been laid down by the Staff Regulations and an integral part of that Regulation 259/68. The Republic of Croatia has applied the method of calculating the current value of future and possible pensions by reducing the amount taking into account early payment and the risk of death before expected time. Therefore, this legislative proposal also addresses the following issues. The status of insurance that passes from Croatian pension insurance to EU pension insurance based on employment in EU bodies, the status of members of compulsory pension funds that pass from Croatian capitalised pension insurance to EU pension insurance, the basis of employment in EU bodies and vice versa, from EU insurance to Croatian compulsory pension insurance, then the question of the method of calculation of the value of pension rights, the process of transfer of pension rights in the first and second stages, then the bodies and institutions participating in the process of transfer of pension rights, and the way in which pension rights are transferred from the EU system, and the calculation of the value of those rights in order to exercise rights and pension insurance in the Republic of Croatia. What should also be mentioned on this occasion is that this legislative proposal does not cover representatives in the European Parliament whose pension rights are governed by the statutes of legislators in the European Parliament. In the same way as officials and employees employed in EU bodies, Regulation 883/2004 and 987/2009 on the coordination of the social security system do not apply to representatives of the European Parliament, so that there is no legal instrument that would allow the collection of the pension standing. Finally, it is very important to mention that on the draft final draft law that all opinions of the resolution bodies whose proposals have been accepted have been incorporated into the text of the final draft law, as well as proposals and objections from the parliamentary committees and parliamentary representatives. The comments and proposals were mostly new technical in nature and also a correction was made in terms of better understanding and better accuracy of the final proposal of the Law on the transfer of pension rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59619	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I'm opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59620	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State and Assistant. So I think we're going to end this debate very quickly because it doesn't make too much sense to discuss the proposals of laws that are very good or precise, which defines one technical process to work in the EU institutions in such a way that someone carries their pension law as one of their own vouchers, regardless of whether it's compulsory insurance only in the first pillar or in the first and second pensions and because they're both compulsory pension insurance and on their way back to this country because we have to think in another way that it can be returned to any EU country, he's going to have what he's taken from the country and earned in the EU or return to Croatia or another European country, because it's a prescribed procedure for all, all the EU countries agreed with this approach, there are only variations because they don't have all countries two-stage pension systems, but only a system of generation solidarity, so we have that we have this couple of options. Technically, this law is impeccable to me, I've been stuck reading these provisions a few times, but in the end, when you study it a little bit better, you see that they're quite precise formulations, that they don't leave much dilemma. The only thing I had as well as my first reading and now a dilemma is that I have no doubt that what it says here can be implemented through the state budget without any problems. However, I do not think that we still have in the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds and the Pension Insurance Companies Act, so in modes, we still have these kinds of exits from mandatory pension funds, or that this does not go through fashion. As far as I recall, in 2014, this was not yet current, so I suggest, there will be no technical difficulties for the implementation of this law, it is clear to me because it comes out of the budget and returns to the budget, and then it is transferred and you have both money and bonds and everything as the state operates with mandatory pension funds and, of course, the fashion user so that all of this can be transferred and technically implemented but it would also want to be amended sooner or later by the Pension Insurance Companies Act or compulsory pension funds to contain such small changes, not necessarily immediately, but when some other amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds or pension insurance companies are made. And not to be too long, I said, I promised here at the chair table that I'd be shorter than three minutes, but I've already stepped on it, but I just want to say in the end that the GLAS and HSU club will support this bill with pleasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59621	Thank you very much. A respected representative, Mladen Karlic, will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59622	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary, assistant minister, distinguished colleagues. Here I promise you I'll be shorter than three minutes, to fix this, here's to all of you. We have before us the final proposal for a law on the transfer of pension rights. Here is what a proposal has already been said that has actually passed a debate where it is not practical or much of a need for observations, because it is really quality and well prepared, in line with the acquis, with EU rules. So I think that without any problems, of course, with all this debate that we have already had and, of course, we can make it possible for everyone who will exercise their rights from the pension system of Croatia, who has moved to work in the EU, means as officials or officials that they can have one pension, a quality pension actually in the area in which they are in the EU country. This means the regulation that the Council has prepared for the first time for sixty-eight years, made the rules. It was later coordinated in 2008 and at the end of the last time in October 2013, so that several times already meant taking care of those officials, officials working in the EU, to have this possibility of retirement actually in one... complete no matter where they worked, whether they were in the state, going back and back to their country of origin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This, indeed, this bill solves all the issues that are being addressed here, which actually enables all the institutions involved, so I think that this is because I say it is in line and with all the EU gains that this bill will be adopted by the HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59623	Thank you very much. And now the final thing will be said by Ms. Majda Buric, the Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59624	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for your commendable terms regarding the Final Proposal for a Law on the Transfer of Pension Rights and just a brief answer. Mr. Hrelja mentioned the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, the Pension Society Act. It therefore states in the law of Article 19 that the transfer process of total capitalised contributions to pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings from the personal account of a member of the compulsory pension fund to the EU and the transfer procedure itself to pension insurance of the Republic of Croatia is based on an individual capitalised savings part of the total actuarial equivalent of pension rights acquired in the EU system and will be prescribed by the Minister of Finance in cooperation with the Minister responsible for the pension system. And then, teachingly, Article 24 of the Rules of Procedure of the 19th Act, the Minister of Finance, will deliver within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law. That's all I needed to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59625	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59626	Thank you, Secretary of State. By the time I said yes, I'm sure there won't be any problem with the editing of this legal procedure. If you analyze it, you can have a plastic experience of how it all goes together, because all of it can be realized through the budget. That's what I said if it's going to be solved through the Secretary of Finance's rulebook or without the regulations, it's all the same and I'm glad it's written. However, the fact is that the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds says when the money of the user can be withdrawn, and that is not the case. These cases do not appear in the Mandatory Pension Funds Act, so it will sooner or later need to define that not only by obtaining conditions for retirement of any kind, but also in such cases, money will be able to be raised from compulsory pension funds, and that is not urgent, it is not urgent. There is, therefore, plenty of time, it can be done in some of the first changes and additions to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, i.e. pension insurance companies. So I don't think there's a point of dispute between us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59627	That's always nice when there's no point of dissent, so I'm closing the argument. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And we'll start, we'll continue work tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. with the point Final Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Compensation Fund, second reading, P.Z. No. 123. I wish you all good night! Session interrupted at 19.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-16-0.u59628	Final draft law on the transfer of pension rights, second reading, P.Z. No. 127. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on the transfer of pension rights. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 113 for, 3 abstentions are passed the Law on the transfer of pension rights.
