ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47319	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a 10-minute break to talk about Agrokor and the Agrokor Investigation Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47320	Thank you. A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47321	Thank you very much. I am also asking for a break on behalf of the SDP club to talk about some within political and economic matters in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47322	Thank you. Is there anyone else? A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47323	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I am looking for a break to discuss the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47324	Thank you. A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47325	On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a 10 minute break on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47326	Okay. That's four. Dodig, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47327	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47328	Same, good. That's five, okay. Thank you. I'm taking a break until 9:00 and 50 minutes. [[It's 9:00.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] We are continuing our work and I would like to ask my esteemed colleague, Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club to address us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47330	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Fellow Members and colleagues, today is the 5.10.2017 historic day for the Republic of Croatia, it is a historic day for our society, the state, for our country, I would like to take this break, to highlight the importance of this day, and to say something about the Agrokor Investigation Commission, which I hope will be established as soon as possible. We should all take a deep breath and wonder if today will be a turning point. I think it's going to be a turning point. Today we'll find out what kind of thief Todorovic was, so to speak, we'll find out what was going on all these years, but it'll only be the beginning of the story. Those who insist on avoiding our society are facing the truth, not just around Agrokor, around any company, our main weapon is a delay. We won't solve the problem now, we'll postpone it in a year, two, until it gets critical, so as it goes, it goes. And no more running. Today we will face the truth, that is, a large part of the truth about Agrokor. And that's good. Problems need to be solved, no matter how difficult they are to escape. It may be embarrassing to face problems now, but the sooner we face them, the easier it will be to solve them. The interests we've been hearing in the last few days in the media are huge. Ivica Todorovic, spam, troll, would be said in an online dictionary on the daily basis on her blog, the media space of Croatia, that's always breaking news. Foreign banks, funds, want to take everything that's worth in Agror, a domestic tycoon, whose property is the same suspicious origin, and report that they would take some of that property. It's better to be in Croatian hands than to be taken by strangers, whatever. Better to give people like that than strangers, they say. That fog, that confusion that's created, it's got to be cleared up. She needs to be cleared up in all ways. We must come to responsibility and criminal justice, but also political, above all, political responsibility. Agrokor is not something that lasts, a month, a year, it lasts 30 years. Therefore, all these parties, SDP, HDZ, around them, have been involved with the story in Agrokor for the past 30 years, or, out of independence, in one way or another. And it's actually one of the main weaknesses of the commission that will be established, but that must be established. Mana is that the cadiya will sue you, and the cadiya will judge you. Your people were sitting in the Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in Postanska Banka, in the ministries, in the State Attorney's Council, in the State Judicial Council and in many other bodies, if you want the Committee on Presentations and Appeals that received the information, which they had to know something about. This is too small a country, too little company to know. Something had to be known. You could have reacted before, for a number of irregularities, which I've counted so many times from this pay phone, the reaction is missing. You've been putting off, running away from dealing with these problems. You'll probably try to do it now. No, it's time to face it, to clear up the situation, to sanction the responsible and in real time. No capitalist, a criminal in Croatia has been killed, to the gentleman the diameter of the former Sanader, which is a national disgrace to all of his governments who are judging one or the other. Nor do we have any concrete judgments, let alone that something was taken from them. Therefore, we want justice in real time. As far as the commission itself was concerned, so far there were 10 commissions, 10 were the ones for the Immunological Institute of Independent Croatia. A '96 law. For years, no change has been made. Maybe we should have improved it before we went to this committee. I will personally propose 10 amendments to that law, which I repeat has not been changed since '96. A year. Because I've seen a number of faults standing in it. I also expect the Croatian public to expect the commission to work intensively. I expect that it will not be politicised, because many previous commissions have served exclusively for planting, by opposition to the one who is in power, or vice versa. I didn't run the Immunology Bureau that way, I announced to the Parliament that I wouldn't run it that way, I got a mandate not to run it that way. If you're going to come to this board of Agrokor as you've come to this for the Immunology that I ran, then you'd better not start it. Therefore, responsibility is expected, committed work from morning till tomorrow, with the world, only 6 months of intensive work, many papers of eyewitnesses, but the problem has to be solved. Now and now, without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47331	Thank you. We move on to the second round of MPs, it's SDP and respected colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47332	Thank you very much. I'll surprise you a little bit, I don't think at this point that the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia, Agrokor, so I won't talk about Agrokor, although probably colleagues from HDZ expect it. I will talk about what is the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia and how the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, refers to the problem, as the HZD refers to the problem, what is the mentality of solving this problem present today in those who decide. Over a hundred thousand people have left Croatia over the past year. I don't hear debates here in the Croatian Parliament about it. I can't hear HDZ bothering him too much. I don't hear Mr Plenkovic coming here to give a report on the government's work, to say what he did in a year that our people are leaving Croatia. That's the problem we need to talk about here. That's the problem, the biggest that the Republic of Croatia has at the moment. What on the other hand we get from the government and HDZ. What is bold, arrogant, as our people experience, local arrests partylike this gentleman in Split, a stable Budish who told all of you on behalf of HDZ said that on behalf of the Mayor of Opara, none of it was fenced. If he were a member of the SDP tomorrow, he would no longer be a member of the SDP or would be doing the job paid for by those citizens he insulted. A man says this way who doesn't like his door open, go outside and see how much you're worth. Go out and see what you're worth, go out, not get paid by the citizens you spit in your face like this. But he spits in their faces and every HDZ guy who supports it. Why didn't Andrej Plenkovic fence himself? I expect Mr. Bačić behind me who speaks here now, or Mr. Kleman, to see that it has changed, to fence yourself from Mr. Budisha. Say don't share that opinion and say he doesn't work on behalf of HDZ. Mr. Budisha, who is on the payroll of these citizens, is driving citizens from the Republic of Croatia. Or another example, in Vukovar, Mr. Penava abolished the transportation of subsidisation to students and students from Vukovar this year, which is worth a million kuna in the city budget, while at the same time in the same city administration in the Department of Social Activities, increased salaries by two million kuna. What kind of message is that? To the students of young people in whom Croatia swears, who needs Vukovar to build, Slavonia builds a downloaded subsidy, removes that money, and the ones to be employed in the city administration are raised by two million kunas. You fence yourself up and say that, Mr. Kleman, it's not okay, say, send a message here because our citizens don't deserve it. They don't deserve such irresponsible authority, they don't deserve the insensitive HDZ power that doesn't matter if and how many people from Croatia leave. It is important to remain only those they hold on to their apanasy on their own public money. That's what we have to fight against. We are not satisfied with that, and we will speak in this House every day. This is the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia, and these problems caused by the HDZ in the 1990s created by Todorovic will solve the same, but the biggest problem is people leaving Croatia. Andrej Plenkovic for a year results from 100,000 people outside Croatia, 100 thousand people too, 100 thousand fate, 100 thousand families, and HDZ fucks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47333	Third debate of the HDZ Representatives Club Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Otherwise, let me just say that your president and then the Prime Minister said that they're going head-to-head and belly after bread and you were in that government. Your Honor, Mr. President. Here I had the need to react to Mr. Stazic's scandalous statement yesterday, and indeed in this high house, we have seen and heard a lot of things lately from various sides of the political spectrum. It is unnecessary to mention individual performances in the last year, we all know what is more or less about. But it seems to me that until yesterday we haven't heard from the representatives of the Croatian Parliament an invitation to destroy the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday we heard it from fellow Stazic who invited the Istrians to a referendum like Catalan, practically to the secession of Istria from the Republic of Croatia. This is really too much when it comes from fellow Stazic. Yes, it is true to my fellow Stazić that we Istrians feel special, but nothing more special than the Dalmatians, Zagoracs, Međimuracs, Slavonians, Primors, Licans and nothing less is felt by Croats than anyone mentioned before. We show our Croatianism in our own way, peacefully, loyally, with dignity. We feel that we make the most of our country and our homelands if we work hard, pay our commitments, create new values, develop our end, value ourselves and our neighbours. And we like to say in Istria, mind our own business. We articulate our goals through civil society and political parties that work through the institutions of the Croatian State Parliament, county, cities, municipalities and through them we fight for better Istria and better Croatia. Because, sir, I'll run what's good for Istria, it's good for Croatia and what's good for Croatia is also good for Istria. I remind you that Istria has made a great contribution in the Homeland War that in the battle of Istrian defenders throughout our beautiful country, Istria has also had the highest percentage of responses to mobilization in the Republic of Croatia, but it has also received large exiles and avoids war destruction from which no number in Istria has found a new home. With almost 90% of Istria's citizens quoted above, they voted in favour of RS independence. All of these Istrians have made it clear where they want to live, Mr. Stazic, and with all the difficulties of democracy and the maturation of the state, they have expressed where they are seen and where Istria is seen in the future. They saw it then, and now they see it as a prosperous and advanced region in the Republic of Croatia and the EU. To the Istrians, Croatia is not hateful, Mr. Stazić, so in our Istrian ceremony song or as we like to say to the anthem, says the poet "The beautiful land of Istria dear to the home of the Croatian family". That's what you can't understand that kissing Istria is kissing our beautiful one. That's what those verses that we Istrians embrace as a sacred place say. And your problem is that you have no good intentions towards this country, and when you call any referendums in Istria, then you have no good intentions towards Istria. But it is fortunate that we in Istria do not experience you. And finally, on 25.9., as the representative of this high house, I was at a ceremony marking 70 years of the Paris Peace Accords and the Day of the Istrian County. In a speech among other merits of the Istrian-Catholic clergy, and especially Monsignor God Milanovic, I joined Istria to the mother country and Croatia, I experienced the whistles of a small number of guests, members of associations who call themselves antifascists. The same scenario was experienced by the President of the Republic. But it's more or less known from the media these days. All this time, I've been wondering, no matter who these people are who are so maliciously whistled at the memory of the Istrian giants who at the crucial moments of history have contributed to Istra joining the Homeland on the wings of the anti-fascist struggle. Yesterday I sort of got an answer to this question. These are people like you, Mr. Stazic, people who don't like this Croatia, people who don't like Istria, people who don't have heritage values that the heritage of the Istrians. Mr. Stazic, I ask you not to give instructions to the Istrians in the future what we do. So you'll spare us the reaction as well as your party so it doesn't have to blush further this time from the discomfort of your statements. And what the Istrians would say, sir, is that this will not fit you, or I will translate you into a language that you know better than a paseran.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47335	Thank you. Next debate of the club of representatives of the Independent Lists Miro Bulj. My colleague Maras had no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I can tell you right away at the beginning because you wanted to react to something Kleman said. ... Okay, you're giving yourself the opportunity to get a warning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47336	I'm willing to take that risk. Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Kleman inappropriately accused one of not loving Croatia. To me, it's one of the most serious insults and accusations anyone could ever give me. And regardless of your subflation and disdain, that is an insult to which you, Mr. President, have had to react because Mr. Kleman does not have the right to insult other MPs in this way. And the Istrians would probably have chosen him last to represent what they think in view of the results of HDZ in Istria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47337	Dude, just a little bit, just a little bit. ... Comrade Maras, just a little please, I expected you to fence yourself from your fellow Stazic, you did not do so, and now you have injured the Rules of Procedure and for this reason I am giving you a warning because you did not speak of injury to the Rules of Procedure but you have used this as a replica. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47338	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the shadow of the very important topics and blogs of Ivica Todorovic and Agrokor, one huge problem was forgotten nothing less than Agrokor which is in the project Vis Viva, a project that appeared, one of the projects, we forgot about it and that is the Peruca thermal power plant. Well, you remember, not so long ago, at the beginning of the session of the meeting of this Assembly, i.e. I did not receive an answer from Prime Minister Plenkovic, i.e. I received a reply from the prime minister, obviously in this case Ms. Martine Dalic because the prime minister remained silent where I asked him if he was standing openly, who is behind this project of a harmful and environmentally and economically and strategic thermal power plant which is a private project he is pushing, meaning who owns the husband of one of the ministers. Deputy Prime Minister. A reaction that was made by Ms. Martina Dalic that we were holding back the development of the Cetina landscape and the whole area, that her grandfather was there. However, I must once again send a message to both the public and Martini Dalic and Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mrs Buric and her wife that 20 thousand Cetinjans have already signed a petition, of which 17 were sent via e-mail via the internet directly to answer this question. Both the people of the Cetin region and Dalmatia oppose the destruction of the largest drinking water resource that is harmful and economical and ecological, as our Croatian scientists have also proven, which threatens the largest pool of drinking water. We have no answer, in fact we received it from Martina Dalic, who roared here uninvited for the first time in Parliament that someone from the Government reacted in that way and was neither questioned nor mentioned, who responded and supported this project that would cause great damage to the area. Yes, we need investments in the Cetina region but no harm will come to all the projects and cause great damage that entrepreneurs already have. So only two entrepreneurs will lose 250 jobs from the EU funds. It's only in the Croatian municipality. We won't talk about the OPGs, we won't talk about the Sinj field, and first of all we won't talk about and compare the value of the water, the clean, drinking river Cetina with their monster from the Peruch thermal power plant. We're not going to talk about 700 kilos of exhaust gas going into the air and 2% is harmful, that's what scientists have proven. Central Dalmatia has Cetina and the whole of Dalmatia will eventually have to connect to Cetina, Jadro loses clean and drinkable, analyses show that a little over time will no longer be drinking mainly now that they have imposed into the karst and Lečevica. That is why I call once again on Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Buric, Martin Dalic and Prime Minister Plenkovic to respond to the public, which is why the people of Dalmatia are not stopping a harmful project against which the scientific public and the people of Dalmatia are against. Why are they pushing private interests ahead of public interest? Why are they threatening a strategically clean, drinking pool of water? We need investment, investment, we need a fast road connected to the highway and Vrgorac and Imotski and Sinjska krajina and Drnska krajina, but in no way what is at the beginning and spoken, this project is a continuation of the threat to the work, the eviction of that work. Certainly their policies have led to a situation where we have an empty Dalmatian Zagora and this project is just an exploitation in someone else's pocket. As I said, I will repeat again, the prime minister in this case was not Andrej Plenkovic but Martina Dalic. I ask Martin Dalic again why you're protecting your foreign minister's private interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47339	Thank you. And the latest discussion of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, distinguished counterpart Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47340	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Every time I report for this break, what's going on before, change my plan for what I'm talking about. That's why I have to be here, there's no colleague of Sincic who said a sentence that there was confusion in society about Agrokor. The question arises why did this confusion occur? Confusion has been created because we have been involved as, almost as a street in solving this problem from our unknowing interests we are talking about. To talk about it, an expert in the area, I get it. I'm listening to the radio this morning, and what does this audit we're all expecting mean? Experts say that nothing will happen to this revision because there are several methodologies that it is working on, that it is difficult to conclude what actually happened and what we need to conclude from that. Let's let the business talk about things. Comrade Maras, I respect your interest in the problem of eviction from Croatia, 100 thousand young people, absolutely respect, I believe you're saying this from the most noble initiatives, but when you accuse the current government of it, then it really doesn't make sense. The problem of eviction has evicted 500 thousand people from England. From rich England. Doctors in England are on strike. Doctors of family medicine strike for small wages, our parents go to England. It's a very subtle story when it comes to eviction. The internal movement of the population within Croatia is as big a problem as the emigration from Croatia. We concentrate in 3, 4 large cities, which is a disaster, the entire areas remain empty. So I'd be begging you not to create that confusion. My colleague Bulj said, I am against this power plant, I say publicly, but for God's sake, we can't use such serious problems from this pay phone in which Croatian society is located for petty political purposes. This is politics we do. We know exactly who will talk about and how to present the problem and try to ask people about the meaning of the talks, the meaning of the energy strategy in Croatia, the meaning of the education strategy, the meaning of the eviction strategy, or the stopping of eviction, there is no answer. So we can't solve these problems in a way that we can come to the Parliament and use five minutes for personal promotion. It's all true, it's all problems, but in this way we can't solve them, we're creating only the confusion that Sincic was talking about, which he's involved in. And therefore, my dear friends, let us respect the profession, respect human rights, respect the knowledge, respect the facts, and be sent out of this House to a people who simply imitate what we say. A huge amount of negative energy is spreading from this House. So for God's sake, let's start thinking like the people we're here for to solve something, not get complicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47341	I thank my colleague, Dodig. The name we came to the end of the debate after the break and now we return to the agenda as I have announced
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47342	Here you go, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47343	Thank you, Vice President. On behalf of the HSS Club, I request a 10 minute break to discuss the status of teachers and reflection on the state of education in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47344	Thank you. Anyone else? Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47345	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes, on behalf of the MOST Club, on the condition of Agrodor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47346	Thank you. Dear fellow Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47347	Your Honor, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, I'm looking for a break to discuss non-compliance with collective contracts for public service employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47348	I thank Mr. Bunjec. Anyone else? I'm setting up a break. We'll continue at 17 and 45 minutes. It's a 17.35 o'clock meeting. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.45 HOURS]] Stanko was requested by the HSS Representatives' Club, a respected colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47350	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Today is the World Teacher’s Day, declared by UNESCO in 1994 to highlight the importance and role of teachers and teachers in society. Here, therefore, on behalf of HSS and on behalf of myself, I congratulate all breeders, educators, teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers and all those who participate in the process of education of children and young people on their day and, of course, thank them for their efforts, engagement, generation education and contribution to the development of the Republic of Croatia. To the teachers of science and education, Mrs Blaženka Divjak also invited them to a more quality approach to education and to give maximum of themselves. She said that as teachers, blood flow is a necessary change. Yes, we agree that Croatia needs changes, needs quality education reform and a teacher must have his place there. She said your place is crucial in every student and student's life because every day you have the pleasure of building their future with them but also taking responsibility to equip them with the necessary knowledge, skills, tools to be competitive on the labour market. And what about teachers and their status and how much do we really single out in science and education in the Republic of Croatia? According to the statistics and data I have been able to collect it is clear that teachers are marginalized, that their role in society is not what they deserve and in a material sense they are being paid. Teachers on average work for a six thousand kuna salary. We invest about 3.5% of Croatia's GDP in education, which is 3X less than the European average. The salary of a beginner's teacher is 4972 kuna. 1,000 kuna below the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. At the age of 10, the teacher has 5899 kuna. Can he live qualityly, build his family, and be ambitious, hearty, and motivated to work with children, to convey knowledge and skills to them? Well, the fact that with this kind of approach, it certainly isn't. And I urge the minister to consider what she said about them being a blood stream that requires change. Yeah, the bloodstream needs, the blood stream needs to flow with the vessels, but it needs a strong pump and it needs to be cared for by that pump. And this is the role of the ministry and the government of the Republic of Croatia and greater separations for science and education and higher salaries to professors and teachers. It is necessary to support the demand for trade unions that require an increase in wages by 15.2%, not an increase, but a return to that level from 2008 before the economic crisis broke out. And the result of such work is best argued by the data on the success of learning that the PISA test, the international knowledge assessment program and the skills of students have said what kind of school and knowledge we have. The student's ability to apply the adopted skills they will need for personal development and their place and role in the development of society because without education there is no development of economies and then a total investment in society. The fact that our education system does not meet the task of expectations, we are politically bickering about reform, about who will lead it and how it will be implemented and on the other hand we do not care about students and all of us are full of mouths that children must acquire knowledge and skills and spend only 4800 to 680 hours at school while in advanced Denmark it is 1000 to 1200 hours certainly not as in Croatia 55, 56% of students must seek instruction and additional training to master skills, skills and could enroll those universities and get a job at those services where they want. In other words, we urgently need to give up these beautiful messages rather than specify the separations for education and science, put the teacher, the professor in the right place to have the will, the energy, teach the children and thus give the children a chance to be employed on the labour market and to stay alive in Croatia. That's a message, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47351	I thank my colleague Vlaovic. Next break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47352	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here in front of the club MOST Independent Lists would also congratulate teachers and teachers their day and, of course, the state should take much more care of that segment and this is the most important segment of education. But I asked for this break, and here we have today's review report for companies in the Agrokor concert. However, I would return and I promised to return, every week that I would warn about what I asked the question, and this is the question of Minister Maric who was sitting here last week in the assembly, and he was also responsible to us parliamentary representatives, were he at the 26.2. in the government when Todorovic and the other members who admitted to being and said that he was also and was the exclusive Minister Maric at the command of Andrej Plenkovic on his own in a meeting with Ivica Todorovic? So far, we have not received any answer as to what it means that Minister Maric is avoiding the answer, so we should ask Prime Minister Plenkovic, who defended him here in, so in the Parliament, when asked for Minister Maric's shift, that he responds to these questions. Why he protects in this case, the exceptional minister Maric, who was not the exception because he did not disprove the claim that he was not at a meeting with Todorovic in the government where the other members were. Yes, the fact is that the Prime Minister Plenkovic did not want to answer either, that you were misleading the Croatian public when you said that Minister Maric was not involved, that he was the exception that he had washed his hands, that's a lie. The direct was in a meeting, he decided, listened, proposed and met, on his own with Ivica Todorovic. Well, he would ask again, the diameter of Plenkovic, did Minister Maric meet with Ivica Todorovic by his orders? And was he at the 26.2. meeting in the Government of Minister Maric, when Agrokor was the topic? So the non-exempt Minister Maric did not want to answer these questions a few days ago. He hasn't run from the media yet, he's running from journalists, and of course, that's the key person of this whole story that has been excused in the most difficult moments of the Croatian economy, and in fact he's been involved in the whole process in the case of Agrokor. All the time, now after the report, he knew everything all along. Because it certainly wouldn't have been at meetings at the ministry, that is, in the government where key people were involved at the time on the Agrokor issue. The fact is, and we're proud of it, and this would never come out. They would still be patching up from HBOR and other grants to Agrokor and pumping tires, as well as until now political elites from left and right, if not for God Petrov's request that meeting and that no criminal charges were raised. They'd never be able to run those processes, but they'd be squirming more, in debt, and they'd still be serving the boss money. Yes, it would be obvious the role of Minister Maric as his predecessors who I last asked here, from Minister Lalovac, who sits here to Minister Shuker and all the other ministers who have passed the finance, who have passed through the government. I'm sorry they're not here right now so they're answering, which is why the tax administration didn't have any inspections inside and some prescribed legal transactions within that concert that took hold of the entire country's throat. And he was choking her and he was choking her, and I'm sure we'll fight again... That it doesn't happen, but it's the fact that it happened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a pity it just had to come out right now. If there had been a group of people in this House 10 years ago, as a bridge, this certainly wouldn't have happened. I ask again, in the case of Plenkovic, Minister Maric escapes, cowardly, in front of parliamentary deputies and refuses to answer, flees the media, did Minister, the exceptional Minister Maric 26.2., attends a meeting in Croatia with the government and does he, by order of you, refer to Plenkovic for a meeting with Todorovic 3.3? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47353	I thank my colleague, Mir Bull. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, a respected colleague, Branimir Bunjac, asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47354	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I want to join my colleagues who congratulated the world’s teacher’s day, congratulating him on my behalf and on behalf of the Living Wall. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the continuing trend of reducing investment in education and, in general, to the worse and worse perception of teachers that they have in society. As we have already heard, investment in education in Croatia is about 3.5%, but in fact it is even less, because there is a tendency to decrease. In EU countries, this same investment amounts to about 5% to 6% of the budget, of course, which is far more than ours, and in some countries and by 7.8%, to those we like to compare with, therefore, investments are dramatically higher. By not investing in education, and reminding me that Croatia has been a country of knowledge in its own time, it does not invest in the future of its own country and is also not investing in national identity. Because national identity, first of all, should be built through education, science and culture. Today we read devastating statistics on some of the tests conducted in Croatia, or in the rank of Croatian universities that are less placed than universities in Central Africa. We hear that children in schools have no money to pay school meals, that no textbooks are resolved, that the issue of transportation is not resolved, that school buildings are in very poor condition, that many schools still today do not have sports halls, that is, gym classes are improvised. I would especially like to warn you that teachers have not received a salary raise in 11 years. Although the government signed a public service pay base agreement in 2006, on 23.11. that it would increase, 3 years in a row of 6%, that the same agreement would then put a moratorium on it, and promised that wages would rise at the time, when over 2 quarters, so 2 times 3 months of GDP would increase more than 2%. The conditions for this increase were acquired in March 2016 and according to the contract, wages had to be increased by automation, I repeat, automation. So there's no negotiations about it. The government didn't honor that contract. It has now been 18 months and the government now claims after 18 months that the agreement should be negotiated, it is now demanding that negotiations be restarted. I find such disrespect for your own words, your own signatures simply embarrassing. On the other hand, the same government tells citizens that they have to pay their loans and all their obligations because they put their signatures on paper, and the same signatures when they're put up by ministers and the government are not worth the same signatures. So is this restoring confidence in the institution that Prime Minister Plenkovic told us about here during his reports on the EU? Is this the way to run a credible policy? For 18 months, the signed contract is not respected, teachers have not received salary increases for 11 years. The government is not congratulating the teachers of World Teachers Day. Where can we hear today that anything has been done about it? The same criticism goes to HNS that took over the education portfolio, allegedly very advanced ones, we don't see any shifts, no activity, and it's really embarrassing what my colleague Vlaovic said that teachers work under 5,000 kunas, educate us and our children and all those generations that will have to come. For this reason, I call on the Government to respect its own signatures, to respect what it has agreed and to raise salaries or pay bases for the agreement signed in 2006, without delay, of course, that same raise should apply to all the public services involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u47355	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51670	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, we continue our work. Just before, I see that some are already reporting for a break, just one notice. So tomorrow, we will begin with the point of the Proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, the Proposer of the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports, instead of the Report on the effects of the implementation of the Law on Islands in 2014 and 2015. So there will be a replacement of these two points for technical reasons. Today, we'll start with a report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2016, but before I see who's calling for a break. This is what we came to an end with discussions after the break and now we return to the agenda as I announced, first item: - The report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2016 The applicant for the act is the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities on the basis of Article 17. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. The government delivered an opinion. I would now like to ask the Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities, Anka Slonjšak, to further explain the report. It is also the most beautiful welcome here in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51672	Thank you. Dear President of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives, respected persons with disabilities and representatives of the associations that you are here with us today, thank you for having the opportunity to present this report for 2016. In accordance with the section of the work prescribed by the Law on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities, the work of the Ombudsman on the protection, monitoring and promotion of rights and the interest of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia has been demonstrated. In 2016 the institution addressed 1394 citizens. As in previous years, the largest number of complaints were in primary areas for persons with disabilities, which were social protection, labour and employment, pension insurance, access to goods and services, health and education, and when we talk about the most frequent violations of rights, they were then referring to the violation of the law of the Constitution, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and other international documents, and most often in the area of social protection. When we talk about the length of the proceedings, it was the most in retirement insurance, and when we talk about the suspicion of discrimination, it was most often in the field of employment and work, and it was by denying reasonable adjustment. In the 2016 report, we presented statistics, our views, conduct and activities in the country and abroad, regulations, proposals, recommendations that we made to various state bodies, proposals to improve the situation of people with disabilities, as well as the general situation of people with disabilities and life situations they face on a daily basis. The basic problem that I would like to highlight through this year's report is segregation, and the separation of people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities continues to be specific institutions, whether it is social care institutions or particularly educational institutions. In welfare institutions, it is completely excluded from society, today lives several thousand people with disabilities, different types of disability, although they are the most numerous with psycho-social intellectual difficulties. This is due to the guidance, financial resources in the maintenance of institutions, instead of the development of services in the community that would allow people who need support to live in their environments. The situation in which people with disabilities are placed in institutions only because, for example, they need supervision when taking medicines regularly is still a rule, not an exception. That's exactly what international human rights organisations in Croatia have written about, called once entering an institution, never coming out of it. There is no awareness of how large and serious a violation of the right, such concern for persons with disabilities, where their freedom of movement is limited, their life course according to the home schedule in which every day is the same, without any privacy and in interaction only with the staff of the institution, which is not enough to provide support for participation in activities in the community, and even for their rehabilitation in the right sense of that word. The only thing that's possible under such conditions is keeping them safe. In such a way that concerns that are more like the maintenance of prison sentences are condemned because the state has not developed a sufficiently rehab system in the community, we do not have enough to base a team that would support people with disabilities and their families. There is insufficient development of organised housing programs, and not all persons who really need it can get a personal assistant. And especially not to the extent that this service is needed. We do not have enough service providers to cover patronage, care services, medical resources and physical therapists on the ground, who would care for more difficult mobile and immobilised persons, and younger people in a wheelchair, in which case should not be placed in a home, just because they have older or powerless parents. We receive a significant number of submissions from concerned persons who move in wheelchairs, who are just fearing for their future when they are not parents. When the family is disintegrated, under pressure to place members with disabilities in an institution, extremely large state funds have been allocated, and even a small part of that amount has not been provided for services and support to these families in their homes. Although the competent ministry has found that numerous social care institutions are overcrowded and overcrowded, there are no measures to ensure a man's decent life there. When you place 200 people in one building with 3 to 4 persons in one room, without space for loneliness and privacy, without sufficient meaningful activities and with very limited contacts with the outside world, because there are not enough personnel to enable, not only to engage in life, but also to get out of the yard, and when you take away their ability to decide, take away their business ability, it is difficult to do some cosmetic procedures, to improve that situation. The swing of the process, the transformation of the institutions and the ability of persons with disabilities, to realize the rights to life in the community, which we have witnessed in the past periods, did not continue in the area... and the development of services in the community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's been no progress. Services are still unreachable, and waiting lists are still long and longer in homes. Only the number of foster families is growing, and we believe that this form of care for people with disabilities is not only marked by the institution, but also by the most risky form of care in terms of the exposure of persons with disabilities, violations of their rights. And why is that? Because it is the nature of a form of concern that does not involve experts, because of undeveloped support for fosterers and because of insufficient personnel to carry out the surveillance issue. Maintaining this state, not by taking further measures to intensify the process of deinstitutionalisation and the reasons for services in the community, we are concerned that instead of respecting the human rights of persons with disabilities, Croatia has been identified for their discrimination, through segregation in the establishment of social care and other forms of permanent accommodation. When we talk about education and education, we are still faced with segregation according to data and complaints from parents, which starts from working age with their separation and continues to be particularly educational institutions, again because the system has not provided adequate support to an adequate extent in the regular system. As parents testify, their involvement in the regular system happens more despite the system they have to fight at every step than thanks to it. Enough to say, that... on teaching assistants, he's been bringing in since 2008. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it has not yet been adopted, although it has been directed at all expectations that the assistant will continue to address all problems in the system burdened with problems including the necessary education of teachers for growth with children with developmental difficulties and change of curricula as well as other changes necessary for the entire education system. This draws attention to other shortcomings in the primary education system, which significantly makes it difficult to involve children with difficulties. Lack of education of teaching staff, lack of professional associates and experts, other profiles such as custodians, medical staff, co-workers in follow-up. Of the 2,119 primary schools, only 7% are fully adjusted, and 26% of the facilities are partially adjusted. A survey in which we randomly selected 100 secondary schools that we had conducted showed that at 78 schools in these 100 they provided answers that they lack 55 rehabilitators experts, and all schools expressed an extremely high need for teacher education. Although vocational education should be a pillar of the economy, its role should be to train the student to be competent in practice in future, we continue to support education programmes that are not necessary for the market and economy, which has a direct impact on employment opportunities. When we adapt every person with disabilities to ways of acquiring knowledge and skills, as well as performing work tasks in them, we can also expect them to be more involved and employed. Although we have prescribed employment quotas for people with disabilities, we do not have enough persons with the disability of adequate education precisely for the professions required on the labour market. Students with difficulties who would like to be educated for them have no insurance transportation. The state seems to be making up for free transportation of students with disabilities, making up for only one course, when a child is driving to school or returning it. Here these days, one parent will leave his 14-year-old child at home because there is no gas for the other two directions, and his school is 50km away, which is 100km a day and it is not in the home budget. In the Croatian society, families of children with developmental difficulties still cannot count to enough on systematic support from the earliest days of their child's life. We accept complaints about insufficient diagnostics, lack of treatment for the child, needed rehabilitation experts, logopedes, physiotherapy. According to the social care centre in the county headquarters, only 40% of children with the most difficult disability are covered by some services between 0 and 7 years of age and mainly services provided by just the associations, which reaffirms the lack of systematic support. When we accept that children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities are part of our society and that they belong among us, then disability will not be a reason for segregation and separation into some special institutions and special schools. Without this crucial change in our consciousness, there is no active relationship and concrete actions in creating an accessible and inclusive environment in all social areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51673	Now we're going to the replicas, there's a total of 6. First came from a respected colleague, Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51674	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. You mentioned the eternal issue of institutionalisation, I would say that over the past few years there have been a lot of shifts in institutionalisation, but also deinstitutionalisation, but also should be kept in mind that institutions should be needed in certain situations when it comes to particularly difficult cases. I would also mention one of the problems of accommodation of persons with mental disorders, as well as other people with disabilities from large cities in smaller environments. They come, for example, after 40 years of life in Zagreb in Vrbovecka Dubrava and there are huge problems. As one of the bright examples I would like to mention the Department of Organized Housing, which was launched in the House of Turnic, director Martin Bajoko who has made excellent projects related to the problem of deinstitutionalisation, but this is in some way related to people with mental disorders with the development of psychiatry in the community, which unfortunately is still in transition in the Republic of Croatia. After a high-quality psychiatry is established in the community, then certainly the number of people who require institutional accommodation will certainly be lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51675	Thank you. Would you like to respond to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51676	Well, here's what I'd like to say is that the Republic of Croatia has defined itself as the whole of Europe for deinstitutionalisation, and in fact every person with disabilities has the right to choose, the right to support, and in that part, with that support, it is necessary to ensure her life in the community as well as everyone else. Of course that's what it takes... to develop services in a community that, as I said in our country, is still not sufficiently developed, so I think we're on the same track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51677	Thank you. We're going to another replica, it's a respected colleague, Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51678	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'd like to ask the D.A.'s attorney, given the last measure of how people born with Down syndrome would consider 100% disabled to be to what extent would your office be responsible for such a measure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51679	You mean about the art that was talked about? Well, the system of art is since the Law on a single part of the artisan was passed, so since the end of 2014, as we know, the artisan system has changed. There is a Regulation on art methodologies and it is in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In that part, every person with disabilities when warlocks are seen except for its primary damage, is seen also its functional remaining abilities as well as the support needed in its environment. In that part, we cannot identify that each person is exactly the same, in which case no person with cerebral palsy is the same person or person with Down syndrome, each of them has some of their own individual specificities that primarily go out of damage, and then further depending on its or its functional remaining abilities. We in that part have given our opinion, it is publicly published on our website and in that part we support the social model, the social model involving people with disabilities with support and with adequate as I have told the remaining abilities. And in that part, we must, as a society, step away from the medical model and simply say that not every person is the same and cannot be viewed exclusively as a diagnosis or damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51680	Thank you. Third replica, respected colleague Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51681	Thank you. This is what I read as a manifestation of our social consent either with respect or with respect for human rights. From this report, you said that the Republic of Croatia has decided to segregate, marginalize, discrimination against people with disabilities. I believe that this report also shows that we have not made enough efforts to develop the deinstitutionalisation process to involve people with disabilities in the work processes of enabling them to acquire skills and knowledge. And I believe that this report should be viewed as what exists in our society and that is problematic. Today we have heard that the biggest problem of Croatian society in emigration, no, it is a manifestation, one of the more drastic manifestations of our social and political economic problems, but I also see this report as a manifestation and a drastic manifestation of those internal problems in which we come to the very edge of disrespect for human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51682	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51683	I can say that in all its documents, the Republic has strategically defined itself to respect human rights and in that part when we look from the legislative framework, when we look at the signing of international documents like the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, absolutely in that segment goes. However, when we look at the application of these regulations, we can really ask ourselves whether we as a society really have what we have, whether we ourselves respect those regulations that we have and in what way we act and apply them throughout the Republic. What can be read and what is one of the major problems that I also stress is that in all areas of children with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities, the issue of lack of human capacity is raised. We don't have an expert in sufficient numbers dealing with any segment of the issue of persons with disabilities. From community services when we talk about nurse issues, covering people living in their own homes, from home medical staff, social care institutions, from hospital issues when we talk about covering certain subspecies for certain damages and consequences of certain diseases, to rehabilitation experts, logos. We constantly come to tours wherever we go, our important segment of work and visit and go to the field and wherever we come out of Zagreb and also to Zagreb, means in other counties, we see a lack of experts that are very important for children with developmental difficulties, in early intervention services but also as I have stated, in primary and secondary schools where experts are missing to be teaching staff and children, what is most important, available as parents as support.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51684	Thank you. The fourth replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51685	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anka Slonjšak, here's to your exposure I can react to this part that I am somehow concerned about and it's about education or adapting the education system to children with disabilities and what you said about detachment of transport is inadmissible and scandalous for me. I was saying something earlier about it, at the level of one city in the Republic of Croatia, Vukovar, but this is an even bigger problem because this is about that the state can and should subsidise transport not in one direction, but in both directions and that money is never too small because if we want to solve the problems that you are dealing with, then we need to start from the earliest period. And I would also point out something that I noticed in your report, that the services offered by social care centres, for example throughout Croatia, are concentrated most in Zagreb. So if we look to children, if we look at children up to 7 years old, the current report says that from 2300, 400 services offered during that year 2016, 1300 or 57% are in the city of Zagreb. So that's disproportionate. In the city of Zagreb, 57% of the population, and 57% of the children who need to get some support from the state, and we must say, disproportionately remove, means that all of our citizens have equal access to services that the state should offer and not in this way that someone who lives in Zagreb is easier for him, and someone who lives in Vukovar or I don't know in Knin, it's harder for him. And here I want to give you full support to fight for it in future work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51686	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51687	So here I would just like to say that what is an extremely big problem is that in many areas, the associations of persons with disabilities and associations are the only ones who are very often concerned with providing services of primary importance for people with disabilities and children with disabilities in development, and very often because of the lack of some additional resources such as transport as experts and the like, associations are the only ones who in many areas are actually of primary importance and I think that we need to and ask ourselves clearly whether and how we should co-finance and finance the work of associations where they really are in some environments the only ones that provide the primary needs of children with development difficulties and people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51688	Fifth Replicated Honorable Representative Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51689	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Attorney, Madam Secretary of State. He'd just refer to this part of the education system. As we know, the problems of the education system are very deep, structural and unfortunately the education system has just suffered a very heavy burden during the economic crisis. Here's the whole vertical I'm going to give an example that from 2012 to 2015 no new doctorate has, say, entered the higher education system and that's largely one of the reasons for some of these problems you listed. But I'm glad you mentioned that the reform of the education system is much wider than the curricula itself and the educational programme, that it includes a whole set of measures that need to be addressed system problems such as the position of teachers, assistants in the teaching process, etc. And I believe and I know that this government and this ministry are doing their best to start solving these very problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51690	You want an answer? No, I don't. Then we move on to the sixth line. It's a respected colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51691	Dear Mr. President, I particularly welcome the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, and I would like to point out that the strength and health and the civilizational level of a society is measured by how he treats groups who are disabled, which are primarily persons with disabilities, how he treats them, how much he helps them. I've listened carefully to your exposure and you've also found in this report that it feels this one exclusion of segregation which personally affects me as a human. While I was dean of the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb from 2002 to 2006 we did everything we could and adapted that people with disabilities could move around the building unhindered. So, taking part in the course, and I must honestly say that only then did I meet a significant part of the problem they face. Well, in that sense, I have a feeling for all those people's problems. However, what can you do? So when Pope Francis talks about a society like that, he doesn't want to and sends a message, don't exclude people from the group, from society. Let's not go either. I see a great chance for people with disabilities in the field of education, and that is why I propose to you, and I offer our help to change Croatia, that in the curriculative reform you advocate exactly the adjustment of the programme. This is a time that goes hand in hand to persons with disabilities, because this development of the Internet and telecommunications gives as never before the possibility of learning remotely especially means new occupations so that they can participate actively in life tomorrow. Well, here's my question to the extent that you're involved now, if anyone's contacted you and if you have adequate help with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51692	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51693	Well, here's my thanks for asking. Yes, when it started to talk about it during 2016, given the period when I was in the lawyer's seat, you know for yourself that your House was at the time discussing, or there were five, almost five months without a lawyer of the institutions. So in that part when it was at the beginning I and which associates were involved and we made some suggestions. So we did, and we contacted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51694	Thank you. We're moving on now. Is anyone interested in the committee's reports? Here comes my colleague Sincic, president of the Committee on Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51695	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. At its 15th session, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the Ombudsman’s report for people with disabilities. I'm going to point out in this presentation a short dozen things that we think are important and were the subject of debate. The report itself contains, as Attorney General Slonjšak said 362 pages of a very extensive report. It is worth mentioning that in this report, we know that in the Republic of Croatia there are 203,000 women with disabilities. So, 203,000 women with disabilities are the highest age between 60 and 64. So one relatively older population than two hundred people. However, of the 82 thousand women with disabilities in their working age, only about 6000 are. So we're talking about 6,000 employees. The main concern is that it is a low degree of education for women with disabilities. Namely, more than 76% of the total number of women with disabilities is without primary school, has no primary school or has completed only primary school. So that's the primary problem with employment education. So we have an older population largely less educated, which is unfortunately excluded. Women with disabilities in the realization of the fundamental human right to parenting face obstacles and prejudices of society, but institutions and professions. So it should be mentioned that in the entire Republic there are only 262 gynaecological tables adapted to women with physical disabilities. It is worth pointing out that hate crimes against people with disabilities are not recognized as such. Our committee also held a special session recently called women with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. One of the key things that was mentioned on that committee is therefore a lack of statistics. In order for you to be able to make policies, in order to even know which direction to solve the problem you must first all dimensions, so all locations of this problem define, learn about it. However, since our research is insufficient, inadequate, to a small extent we do not know exactly how much of the problem it is and how to solve it. That's our chronic problem. The Advocate General also pointed out that the state should determine whether it considers organisations dealing with the problem of persons with disabilities to advocates of rights or those who provide essential life needs. All in all, it is pointed out that positive shifts have been made. Trends of improving rights and status exist but far too slow. With 10 votes, the board accepted the Attorney General's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51696	Thank you. Now it is up to a respected colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić, chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51697	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, and I would like to welcome Mrs. Attorney General with my associates, State Secretary and MPs. Just briefly we discussed this report this summer, June 28, 2017, because it refers to the past year. On the Committee and I will also point out only the most important that we are discussing on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, which is that in 2016, the Ombudsman recorded and reacted to various events unfavourable for people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities, which is primarily to the announced reduction of budgets in positions for people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities, the difficulties in financing services provided to persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities by associations that remain unsecured, means financial resources in a systematic and sustainable manner and difficulties in the functioning of the skills system. As in previous years, the largest number of complaints to the Ombudsman about persons with disabilities were in the fields of social protection, labour and employment, pension insurance, accessibility of goods and services of health and education. She pointed out a particularly difficult violation of the rights of children with developmental difficulties as a result of the lack of systematic insurance of child labour intervention, which continues continuously from year to year. Appeals were received over insufficient diagnostics, rehabilitation experts, logos, physiotherapists. All 40% of children with the most severe disability are covered by some services aged 0-7 years and mostly by services provided by associations that are closer to larger cities. Appeals of persons with disabilities and parents of children with developmental difficulties continue to point out their exclusion from regular education. The complaints in the field of health are relevant to the availability and quality of care in the house, physical therapy and medical rehabilitation and indicate the need to review the criteria in order to increase the number of service providers and their availability. In the discussion of board members, board members believe that the position of disabled persons has been improved in the long term, although in most areas there is still room and we need improvements. They consider this to have contributed to the confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is mostly respected and the opinion stressed that the report has been broadly and qualityd. The Vice-President of the Committee also raised the problems of persons with mental disorders, particularly related to autism and the need for cross-sectoral cooperation, and also praised the work of NGOs and achieved co-operation with UNICEF. It expressed satisfaction with the fact that in 2016 positive trends in the employment of people with disabilities were recorded, although fewer ministries employ the required number, minimum persons with disabilities than the year before, which is still not good. At least our ministries should respect the law within their ranks. Among other things, this means increasing the number of employees, including the result of the adoption of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and Implementing Regulations and the extension of the quota system with the provision of incentives for employers. The members of the committee support the Ombudsman's recommendation to abolish the property and income censorship for the achievement of a personal disability and to recognise this right to persons with severe sensory difficulties, blind, deaf and deaf persons. It is noted that the amount of personal disability, aid and care benefits as well as other social benefits has not increased in the last 10 years, which is actually the biggest problem. The comments and suggestions made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia were requested in relation to the 2016 Ombudsman's report on the work of persons with disabilities and to be corrected in due course. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the conclusion that a report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2016 is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51698	And the third committee is the one for work, pension system and social partnership and respected colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51699	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mrs. Sloanjšak, State Secretary. At the 20th meeting held on 22 September, the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2016 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 31 March 2017. That report was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 179(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The Committee held the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on that act. In the opening statement, the presidents of the proposal met the Committee with the conduct of the office in 2016, noting that, as in previous years, the most complaints related to social protection, which points to an extremely difficult material situation, sometimes a person with disabilities. As in earlier years, there is a growing number of complaints in the area of pension insurance that most often relate to the recognition of pension insurance rights and the long-term resolution process. The number of items received and not solved on 21 December 2016 amounted to 40,000 items, 835 items, of which 25 thousand 14 refers to the pension insurance system while 14572 items are from the welfare system. In the field of labour and employment, 211 complaints were received which most frequently referred to respecting the right of advantage in employment, the short-term adjustment and the non-compliance with the obligation of quota employment or the fulfilment of the obligation by paying cash compensation instead of employment. The debate noted that despite the increased employment of people with disabilities, a large number of employers still have prejudice to employment and therefore further education of employers is needed. The opinion is given by which the proposed amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities will improve the overall system of professional rehabilitation. After the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously with 9 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion, which is that a report on the work of the Advocates for Persons with Disabilities for 2016 is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51700	Thank you. I would now like to ask the State Secretary from the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy Margaret Mađeric to give an opinion on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51701	Dear Mr. President, MPs and MPs, the Honorable Madam Attorney, representatives of the Association of Persons with Disabilities. The Croatian Parliament sent an opinion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2016 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities since 31 March 2017. That report shall show the activities and work of the Advocate's Office for Persons with Disabilities and shall give an overview of the data on the reported infringements of the rights of persons with disabilities during the past year. The competent authorities submitted an indication of the report in question. On the basis of an indication of the competent authorities that have given reasons relating to individual reports, the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, the Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. A joint proposal was drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was delivered to the Croatian Parliament. The government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to accept the Attorney General's Report for persons with disabilities with the notes mentioned in the government's opinion. I would also take this opportunity to thank the Ombudsman for those with disabilities at work so far, and I am sure that we will work together well in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51702	Thank you. After this, I'm opening a club debate. The first is on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, two first colleagues, Sinčić, and then a colleague of Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51703	Thank you again, President of the Parliament. This report well detected the condition of persons with disabilities in Croatian society. I think it can be concluded that it is mostly about relatively older people, less educated, who are mostly discriminated against in Croatian society. Such a situation has existed for years, with a snail step moving forward and I don't think the institutions of the state have done enough. We have to ask ourselves, as individuals, if we've done enough. I have already read the information specifically about gender equality or women with disabilities. One of the things I want to point out here and that I have seen especially since I am president of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, so it is not enough research, we do not know enough about the problem of persons with disabilities, no one is doing research, we cannot get numbers, we can get statistics, how many subgroups, what their needs are. If we don't know the condition says in my profession, in order to manage the system we need to first get to know it, we need to measure it first. We haven't measured the situation properly, so of course we can't solve the problem because we don't even know what we're dealing with and what's waiting for us. I remember the situation on the board when Mrs. Slonjak said that instead of the state institutions of the ministry, courts, units of local self-government, etc. submits information to the Advocate's Office on the contrary, they expect the Ombudsman to provide them with data from the area of persons with disabilities. I will remind you that there is a law on gender equality in Chapter 8 in the first paragraph of the article in that chapter of the provision that statistics must be separated, divided by sex. I kept a large number of boards of various institutions from HAMAG BICRO I don't know the DORH came to report, not all adhere to that law. So even in this branch that he said I would by my court in social development more developed than a branch of people with disabilities is not respected by the law. I can imagine what's just going on in the area of people with disabilities. Why is there no such provision that, immediately, when they work with citizens, they immediately collect that information at year level that we have an accurate insight into the situation, it does not exist or largely does not exist. So we have one study by the Rod Association about motherhood and pregnancy and people with disabilities that I'm going to talk about a little bit later, that's another big problem, the state has failed and in the care of those persons with disabilities, much has been transferred to associations, so citizens themselves have arranged to meet the basic needs of life and some normal decent life for people with disabilities. That's another one of the things that rocked me in the D.A.'s report. This must not happen, and when associations have already taken this great job, we treat these associations the same. Every honour and sports associations, every honor and cultural association and national minorities, and how we like to tell the birds of singers, however, we must distinguish some associations from entertainment, that they are founded as primary activity and some are dealing with basic life needs. The State should also distinguish such associations and their activities. It wasn't the same that allowed some basic movement of a person with disabilities or dealing with, I don't know, watching movies, and I think we need to figure it out legally and as far as funding is concerned, and that's the problem that exists so far. So if people have already organized themselves to help each other because it's a state, it doesn't even know what the problem is, let's not make it harder on this part, let's let them do what they do very well. The situation is improving, I repeat again, but too slow since we signed the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Declaratively, we often talk about society of equal opportunities, breaking barriers, including but often these calls are declarative, especially in pregnant women and mothers with disabilities. All 17 of the 300 public authorities are accessible and inaccessible courts, HZZOs, HZMOs, social care centres and other institutions that should be the main state institutions to help disabled people. Although money can now be withdrawn from these European funds to manage accessibility infrastructure, this has largely not been done, I repeat the number 17 of the 300 that have been researched. Attorney-General Slonjak always has a large number of objections to all irregularities, but they are respected in only 30% of cases. One of the main excuses for adapting access is that it is a monument of culture, an old building, and that further makes it difficult to access the institution on which they are located in such buildings. As regards motherhood and persons with disabilities, this is about multiple discrimination, except unfortunately in the Croatian society women are discriminated against by men to a certain extent if you still have a female person with disabilities, it is about further discrimination that has shown the situation and, if it is more about the case of mother, or pregnancy, we are talking about multiple discrimination. It should be said that about 330 people with different forms of disability are born in Croatia annually. The Rod Association also noted that one of the main daunting and major problems facing persons with disabilities is especially mothers and pregnant women, which should be the greatest advantage, so we live in a period of great development of information, computer, internet and should be able to find everything online. However, the content in Croatian is extremely limited while the situation is much better in English. However, since we know that a large number of people with disabilities are poorer education status, it is an additional obstacle that creates restrictions on them and discourages them. The study was conducted on the cause of 100 women from 18 to 50 years old and only 15% of them have a personal assistant. Many do not even apply for an assistant for the simple reason that they know that long waits and know that the assistants do not have enough. They're thinking that if I even sign up, I'll wait a long time, not to get through that process, so I won't even sign up. And so it stands, or it can be read from this research. As for information on rights, even 70% of respondents are not well informed about their rights. It's also a devastating condition. I mentioned earlier how few gynaecological tables are adapted to people with disabilities, mothers and pregnant women. Therefore, this is about multiple discrimination. It's not enough that you're single-discriminatory in society, but all the troubles must fall on you. But this research is commendable, it's one of the few that's entered matter, it's entered all corners of society, and it's brought some results that have been defeated, but it's good to know, we don't know much. That's why I'm pushing for more funds to be allocated first into the detection to get to know the whole problem and all its dimensions and then to solve the problem. I don't know if it was singled out in the D.A.'s report, the committee mentioned that there is actually no clear plan to be with people with disabilities after 2020, and I hope that today's debate will also go that way. So much for me, the Live Wall and Power Club will support the Attorney General's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51704	Thank you very much, dearly honored guests, colleagues and colleagues. During this debate, I would like to warn of one right that has not been exercised for people with disabilities for whom they are actually permanently suspended if we compare ourselves with other countries, which is the right to so-called. An inclusive supplement that is so disabled in all neighbouring countries is 80 euros in Albania, in BiH and Serbia at 175 euros in more developed countries and up to 700m 800 euros. This right that is very interesting is conceived as money support for disabled persons to create conditions for equalising their inclusion in everyday life and the right to the same has a person with long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory damage. It is very interesting that this right is provided even for the 2011 Social Care Act. However, it is never involuntarily. He also wrote the Constitutional 2008 to quote, the multi-annual non-registration of special rules on the rights of persons with disabilities is not constitutionally legally acceptable. Some announcements were during the formation of the new government that this right would finally be realised, but no clear deadline was set when this should happen even though it is not clear what obstacles it is, in order for this right to be achieved. It is important to note, therefore, that this right should not be tied to the so-called ‘inclusive supplement’. property censorship, i.e. that this right should be exercised by all persons with disabilities. And that right should also not be confused with other rights, because some have essentially said that those rights should then be "united" or that this right should not be granted the right. Given that indeed many disabled people in Croatia need help and that they have very low money from the state, I think that achieving this right at this point would be primary, of primary importance. And I therefore call on the legislators to have the right known throughout Europe as soon as possible by Croatian people with disabilities. I would also like to call on persons with disabilities, i.e. their associations, to provide funds for work, at local and national level. And I would also like to call on legislators to include these same associations in writing laws, in writing regulations, and in implementing the laws themselves, means that disabled people are involved in the process of creating these laws. So, which, unfortunately, has not often been the case so far. So far, it has been known that some law regarding disabled people, that disabled people, were not directly involved in the final proposals. There's so much about me. I hear these days that certain associations are passed laws in a short procedure, that they must be financed in this percentage or that percentage at local level, so here I think it would be very nice to treat persons with disabilities in the same way, perhaps not at the same level, but certainly as an obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51705	We have 3 replicas on the presentation of the Live Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives. The first is the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic and his replica goes to counterpart Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51706	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When you say we lack research, we lack data, that we can agree on something, but what I can tell you from my own experience, from working at school, but also as a citizen from everyday life, we don't need research to know that we miss everything. From basic things like access to persons with difficulty in moving or persons with disabilities, public buildings, so, public buildings first of all, to everything else. In particular, children, children with developmental difficulties, are particularly affected by these young people whose education is not stimulated and we actually, from our insatiability, our insufficient efforts as a system, we of these people are actually making and creating people who are closing in themselves, who prefer to stay at home and who are ultimately non-productive members of society who live in life of very poor quality. And we're supposed to be doing the opposite. These people can certainly contribute to social development and as employees, as workers, are being violated by the employment law, when people with disabilities have the advantage in any case and in any almost segment, there is a system that has missed what they should have done. And it's actually a pity that the attorney general has to warn her about it year after year with the same problems. I don't know who my report is anymore, we talk about the same problems all the time, and I don't see any progress at all. Every year, the same complaints, always the same problems. And in the end, I'd just say, our relationship with the defense institutions and the attorney general and the disabled isn't good. It seems to me that our institutions as well as our citizens once do not know what the Ombudsman is doing and why and why this communication towards the institution is bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51707	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51708	Thank you, fellow Highdukovic, for your remarks. I agree with everything you've said and I'll just point out that the relationship between us and a disabled person may be best obvious in the fact that for a few months, we haven't had a lawyer for people with disabilities at all. Mrs. Slonjšak was recently appointed to her second eight-year term. Only the condition, that it's bad, when we see it, is only 15% of the person has a personal assistant, when we see in every problem mothers and pregnant women who have disabilities face each other. When I see that we don't even know what the condition is or who should be running the statistics, I'm afraid we're already in the bandages. From year to year reports are very similar. Progress is very slow and insufficient. I don't see why it's such a problem to separate funds to correct the problem. Once you make two or three meters of access, it costs 100 years. You don't have to work new in that place every year. So these are the problems that can and should be solved, and I hope that here is the effort that will help us all achieve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51709	The second replica is a respected colleague of Milanka Opacic, also a colleague of Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51710	Dear colleague Sincic, you spoke about how when the system fails then the associations are those who jump in and they do a good part of the job. It is true, but it should also be said that associations actually do not just jump in where the system does not work but are more flexible than the system itself, so much faster coming to them for the service, that is what parents or users are, so adults with disabilities are very important. What's the problem is funding these associations, they're being financed now in two ways. One is from the lottery funds and the other is through social bargaining. Social bargaining is on the budget, there's never enough money to spread that kind of social bargaining, it's much better for associations because it gives them one financial stability and they're calm, so they don't have to go to programs every 3 years and write to get some kind of funding. Therefore, with the increase in budgets, it would be good to extend this social bargaining to those associations that have been there for almost 15 years, 15 years almost even more, finance and invest in their experts, educate and therefore, they should possibly need to expand that circle of those entering that kind of social bargaining. So the problem, of course, is that they are not in some environments and that should be done, but we are all facing a lack of experts. They are not primarily due to the fact that small enrolment quotas are at the Educational Rehabilitation Faculty, 5 years should be done by the time you get an expert out, so first they will have to work to raise registration quotas on the enrollment of a number of students, there are interested students, but that education system must do its best to get as many experts as possible, because both of them simply and when you want to hire them, there is simply no.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51711	My colleague Sincic has no answer, so let's move on to the third line that goes this time to my colleague Bunjc that is the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51712	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Sincic, I can conclude from your presentation that you don't have enough information about both the inclusive supplement and many other things. Namely, Croatia does not have an inclusive supplement law, it is still missing, but this government has committed to bringing it in. He's gone, and you need to know that because at one point, people with disabilities didn't want him alone and they didn't accept him for what I have to say, justifiable reasons. Those amounts that you have listed here have nothing to do with an inclusive addition, these are amounts I suppose you were thinking of an aid and care allowance and I must say that, and at this point this government is making every effort to increase the personal disability and care allowance in the coming year for people with disabilities as much as possible. As for the financing of persons with disabilities associations, there they can agree with you, there is a need to find systematic funding. This government has equally committed itself and everyone knows it, it has been said publicly, that as soon as the opportunity arises, but it is necessary to agree with associations, it is not quite that simple, to pass a law on the financing of persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51714	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lukacic, I think I have enough knowledge of the problems of people with disabilities. I don't want to convince my life now. Maybe someday you'll find out about it. He thinks we agreed that the law on inclusive add-on is a priority. And as I said already, in 2011, a certain legal framework was set for the introduction of this supplement, you yourself last year, on the occasion of the International Day of Disabilities, announced that this law would be passed and you also announced that in that period until it was waiting for it to be passed, that you would do everything to increase personal disability and increase funds for other people's care and assistance, that it would be in the budget by 2017, so here I missed it, that in 2017, did the funds you announced really come true or that it would only then be in this budget for 2018, and what would happen if, in fact, even if in that budget, that right did not come true? I would therefore like your words to have weight, I know that they do not depend solely on you, I know that it depends primarily on the ministers and the prime minister, but here, I believe that you can achieve this influence because you are a representative of the ruling coalition, that these problems are indeed being dealt with in concrete terms. I believe that if that inclusive supplement were realized that very, very many problems that plague our disabled would be removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51715	Thank you. Now she prayed for the word of Honorable Anka Slonjšak, attorney for people with disabilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51716	Thank you. Well, here's what I'd like to say about the inclusive supplement. In fact, an inclusive supplement should be, meaning the financial resources that will actually be to compensate the costs resulting from a disabled person. It should be taken into account that this right, or one day when it comes to life, we hope that as soon as you point out, it's been going on for years, it's not a matter since 2011, it's a question that's actually been going on before because from the very beginning since I got here, it's actually been talking about how people with visual impairment need to be increased. So it's not a question from now on but really from a long, long time ago and from an earlier period and I'd like to say that an inclusive supplement is actually the right that should be and that must be seen from all areas. It is not a question of social care, but it is also a question of the ministry which will relate to work and employment both in the area of pension and health, education, etc. Because actually these costs stemming from disability are those that make the difference between a person with and without disability. One person who works and who is in a working relationship, who is disabled, has far greater costs than she is a person who is without disabilities, as well as one who is educated and one who is placed in an institution of social care or some other form of residence, education and the like. The greater the activity of persons with disabilities, the greater their cost of living, but not just the cost of living as all other persons are concerned, but indeed the issue of disability itself. And in that part it's going to be one we can say and it's an extremely big procedure and that's why it's going on. From the very beginning, I was involved in this part and for various reasons, and I have to say that when it came to when it was being considered and when it was almost adoption and there was an analysis of the different rights just at the initiative of our attorney's office we were the first ones to block the follow-up in general that it was working in this way because it was planned to unite all the rights of the social care system and then draw and see how much funds they were, etc. I think it should be noted that a lot of current rights are incurring in different areas, which are not properly and the financial resources that are not properly allocated or justly distributed. There are some people who think they should all have equal rights. can't all have equal rights in all systems because the damages are different, the consequences are different, the remaining abilities are different, and when you look at two children with difficulties or two adults with disabilities, and that they have the same damage, it doesn't have the same remaining abilities and should look at each individual's right towards its individual needs. As long as we don't look through the system that way, we're going to have a pretty big mess because it's going to be said that a person with a disability spends so much and so much money, and when you do an essential analysis and what Mr. Sincic said, while we don't have a quality research and a quality basis for some law and he keeps talking about that financial efficiency, or an assessment of the costs that will result, so far there won't be any good laws, and then neither will his application. The law on an inclusive supplement is extremely important, it is important to adopt the Law on Assistants, regardless of whether it will be called a law on assistance, assistants or any other form because we must ensure adequate support and settlement of costs arising from disability for each person but depending on its individual need and its right as an individual. I would just like to say before the end of this replica that it is important that you use people with disabilities in terminology, children with developmental difficulties because I see that it is still forgotten, that in fact the Sheraton Declaration since 2003 has been adopted that such names are used by both academics and by persons with disabilities, so please respect these two terms for further communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51717	We have one replica of this exhibit, it's a respected colleague, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51718	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed Attorney General, Mrs. Slonjak. In fact, we often talked about this particularly about the Law on Inclusive Adjectives, and then the proposal for an inclusive Appendix for Persons with Disabilities was completely contrary to the intended purpose of that right. It was supposed to unite all rights and you just said that in this replica, and I think that's good, and it needs to be stressed over and over and over again. It is also thought of the fees and services that people with disabilities achieve in different systems, and that is important to say by different systems, which would mean uniting all financial resources that are in different positions in the state budget for individual ministries and state bodies. Why am I saying that? You may have finally said that a person with the same degree or percentage of disability in this case can paint it so, you have quadriplegia, my colleague has a paraplegia of a person with 100% disability, but not with the same degree of care. So then we talked about it, I think that part should be arranged in the Republic of Croatia, that's one thing. And secondly, you know the fact that at this point in the Republic of Croatia there are registered about 507.432 people with disabilities. I think that this is about 12% of the total population of the Croatian population, and I think that this number is too large and that, with the help of your attorneys, for persons with disabilities with civil society and also for the rest of the ministry, now demographics, families, young and social policies should be seriously discussed in order to provide the assistance provided, and we heard from Mrs Opačić for the reason that there is always little resources for social bargaining for those who need it, or for those who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51719	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51720	So here I would just like to say that 12% of the population of the Republic of Croatia has certain damages and are exercising certain rights from different systems, but when we talk about individual regulations, individual laws, and what I have pointed out, not all 500 thousand people are also not having the same damages, nor do they have the same consequences, so they also do not have and do not have all the same rights. And in that segment when you do some analysis we can't then say this law will not cost so much and so much, and it will apply to 500 thousand people. No, it will not apply to 500 thousand will refer to a particular group within that 500 thousand, and depending on the needs of individual assessments of those persons or regulations. What is very important to emphasize is that all persons with disabilities are not poor, and so is a large number of those who are poor. In that part, too, social benefits from disability-based benefits should be distinguished because the Social Care Act must have a clear distinction in that section between whether the personal disability is a social benefit or whether it is a compensation for the costs to be included in the community until we bring an inclusive supplement. I think in that segment we need to make that clear. Poverty can also be attached to a person with disabilities and without family, etc., but we cannot constantly go to that segment that persons with disabilities are all those in the welfare system although we know that most unfortunately because of certain and non-compliance, among other laws, but at the same time we need to make clear that disability is not equal to poverty, i.e. social compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51721	Thank you. We now move to the second club of representatives, it is MOST Independent Lists and a respected representative of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51722	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed attorneys with their associates and once again on behalf of the club. A very extensive Ombudsman's report for disabled persons to 362 once again pointed to a whole series of violations of the rights of disabled people who continue to take place on a continuous basis in our country, is a serious material that the superiors need to read well and perform emergency chodograms of activities to address the shortcomings that apparently continue from year to year. The cancer wound I think is still a unique body of art which, despite already here on the 3rd year of the draft on 31.12.2016. there are 40 thousand 835 items on the table. It remains the biggest problem of practice for one person to call for checks for the purpose of articulating as many times as the rights required in certain systems, which generates justifiable dissatisfaction between those persons, their parents and associations, since the intention to avoid multiple skills was also the reason for the establishment of a single body of art. The promise of one finding and the opinion of different rights in different systems so far has not been reached, too much time has passed and is therefore not possible without amending the Regulation. And I expect the competent ministry to eventually adapt that regulation. What's this about? We also had a recent thematic session of the Committee on Health and Social Policy on Persons with Disabilities and their employment opportunities where there was also a director who admitted that there are still problems and that they are being eliminated. But procedures and skills that last for a year and a half and a half days seriously violate the rights of persons with disabilities and do not resolve the requirements for recognition of rights within a reasonable period is absolutely unacceptable. It is therefore necessary to urgently improve the work of the Unity Body of Skilling, in particular, inequality within Croatia, which creates even greater confusion. In particular, it has been observed in Slavonia or Osijek, and it is said, it is promised that the working group will go and will work on education and witches and will try to change certain practices that are continuously present there, and that is what even more confuses itself means people with disabilities that in Rijeka absolutely for one diagnosis they will get one finding and in Osijek they will not get it or will always get a rejection for some rehabilitation and or just 2 weeks special people with multiple sclerosis get only 2 weeks of rehabilitation until it is common for 3 weeks, before we had what these persons due to continuity and maintenance of their condition takes at least two times a year. Therefore, it is especially necessary to raise professional competences of witches and, finally, no matter what we do not have a doctor, it can be strengthened, with permanent education, there are persons who are not qualified for all segments of skill but can do so to all those in the health care system and who can in some way help to reach a certain level of education and finally need to remove organisational difficulties. So the intention was good but still that system might be the most affected one. I would only take on one segment that is quite close to me in this report which has very extensively looked back and that is the accommodation of people in family homes and foster care. Because as a neurologist, for years, I've been faced with the situation that people who need permanent accommodation eventually move out of the community and move out of our sight and, in some ways, become persons who maybe what happens to them can't even direct their cry or say how they are treated and we don't even know how they should be helped. We know now because the research is done, but here I'm just going to read a few sentences as they describe it. Their meals are scarce and their tails can't get so they often starve, shower once a week if the master is in good faith. If they want to go to the bathroom, they have to ask for permission. Most often they keep them locked up so they don't mind, they're banned from cell phones, Internet and television, it's not rare to be physically violent against them if they disobeyed orders, they have no one to complain about or go anywhere. It's a testimony from a family home where people with disabilities and people with mental problems are housed. So all I've said is not the atmosphere of some notorious prison or work camp, all of this is a reality that is experienced every day by one part of these people that the state needs to care about through a system of foster families and family homes. They're people who are family because of their condition, who couldn't take care of them, and some don't even have a family of their own. Some 2.5 thousand are located in foster families, slightly less in private homes. These conditions in which they live so far have not been known much and probably would not have been known to have been made except for the controversial descriptions when they happen in these homes and some significant failures, so the police have to intervene as well. But it would probably not have been known if she hadn't taken the initiative of the three professors from the Faculty of Social Labour at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb decided to conduct the first Croatian survey with the topic. I was at the presentation of those books and the results were devastating. And they show that hundreds of people suffer verbal and physical violence on a daily basis. The most common thing is people with mental and intellectual difficulties who cannot fight for themselves and the state for their accommodation is from 1600 to 2300 kuna per person, and that money goes to the foster parents. What's the problem? The problem is that each county will be able to enter such family homes and see if it fits the technical conditions, but it will not be able to carry out surveillance. Oversight should be carried out by the ministry. The Ministry has what, I think two or three teams that should be visited by 500 locations. So I can't go around, they don't practically visit anyone. And these people are out of sight there and they're going through all of this. So, as long as the services in the community are not available to people with disabilities, they will still stay away from our eyes in institutions, social care homes and hospitals, foster families and family homes. So the service in the community is crucial, but one part will have to be located in such institutions. But there is our obligation, our obligations and our ministries and the obligations of those who have to write good regulations and good laws that supervision of these institutions must be absolutely implemented. What we see now is for us as a society of defeating. Not all homes are like that, but unfortunately most of them are. So the focus on social integration and the independent life of people with disabilities that we have defined in recent years has led to a strong development of deinstitutionalisation but is not. All that was to be followed by this deinstitutionalization didn't develop enough. And today we simply have a situation that lack means housing and professional support we have solved this way. But after that, we got family homes where we have people who suffer today. And this was well-analyzed by the Ombudsman in this report and pointed to certain segments. I saw that, in its own opening part, she actually talked about it, and that is primarily what it means is that they have limited freedom of movement and active free time. Some have a complete practice of limiting movement outside the home by justifying their tendency to consume alcohol, etc. Most of the time, in some homes, there is a complete ban on contact with their families, or families have to make a good announcement before they arrive. They are not allowed to use a cell phone with an explanation that otherwise they will harass their families, etc. It is then noted that persons, means individual availability of means of personal need, is also limited as is strictly determined when they go to sleep, how many times and when they can bathe. As far as property rights are concerned, such persons are also systematically underhandled and are simply in a situation that they cannot adequately dispose of their property. And I hope that these new legal solutions will also make it impossible, in fact, for someone who will be their custodian to dispose of them, because there has been a lot of abuse. Then conditions of accommodation and professional staff. You need, in addition to nurses and carers, to have professionals who will actually be able to perform and rehabilitate such persons. In most cases, it doesn't happen. And therefore, accommodation in a family home for this category of users should monitor what I consider primarily welfare centres that will assess whether such accommodation is necessary only if it is the last choice. But also follow up on everything that happens next with that user to have the right to full surveillance. Today, family homes can actually be very easy to set up and that's basically a problem, because I think that's why they're also professionally absolutely sub-optimated. So they are, family homes are institutions that care between 5 and 20 people, because those who care for up to 4 people are considered foster parents. In order to establish a home, it is necessary for the institution's representative to be an unemployed person, to have a high school, to have a health certificate and to be a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. It is not necessary to have your own real estate to do this job but only a lease contract, so many choose to rent houses and place their customers there. 20 users must be employed by one nurse and 1 nurse, while before the rule was stricter and asked for 20 users of 3 carers. You can imagine if you're dealing with people with mental problems. The opening process is very simple and it is only necessary to submit the documentation to the management department of the ministry and then to appoint a committee to come forward, etc. So, homes of course need to be a solution in certain cases, but homes that will be well controlled by this country. The same problem is with foster care. So, experts themselves state that fostering is the most undesirable form of accommodation for adults with disabilities because because of their structure and disorder makes it impossible for many human rights to be realised by people with disabilities. There are no standards of quality of foster care. The foster parent can be practically anyone, and sometimes it is about people who have really serious health problems, and the domestics themselves have actually made it clear that their rights are not respected, primarily the right to choose a foster family and to choose a place of residence. Imagine a person who is forced to be placed in such an institution who has lived in one area of Rijeka his whole life because of the fact that in Rijeka and the surrounding area, the practice of foster parents is not quite developed, then from where he had friends, people with whom he worked for a further family, a community where he lived for a certain number of years, he knows mentality, and you move that person to some Slavonic village, where he knows neither who received him, nor those with whom he would share that small room, and there he will welcome the end of his life. It's terrifying, and it's everyday, so it's all clearly said in this publication, and I'm glad it was made and I absolutely agree with Mr. Sincic that far too little we have research that must result in some changes in relation to people with disabilities. So the bridge club of independent lists will support this report. I would like to thank the lawyer, who has explained very deeply this year the situation with regard to persons with disabilities. This report shows what kind of country we are, how important our most vulnerable members of our society are and what we need to be reminded that we absolutely need to improve our care, and for those who need to improve that concern definitely what we should sit and make decisions about and start changing such a bang. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51723	I thank the representatives of STRENJI-Linić. The replica was first reported by representative Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51724	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of Stranja-Linić. You were part of the government in 2016 when then Minister Šikic wanted to close down the Institute of Art, Professional Rehabilitation and that time when the institute itself began to rise because it was founded by zero was a lost valuable time to raise the level of art in the institution itself. What's good is that this institution continues to work, which is good that we've finally raised the experts to the level to which they should be, so it's a special profession that requires further development, and we'll probably have a special specialty somewhere in the future for those who deal with art because they're now engaged in the skills of colleagues of different specialities, but it's a special profession that's extremely important. And what's good is that we finally have a body where we get a unique opinion that can then be used in all parts of the system. What's not good, that we still have differences in disability, depending on whether you're in defense status or you're in disability, without being a defender, because a lost hand is the same no matter where and when it happens, a lost leg is the same as a disability no matter where it happened. And I hope that in the future and this institution will contribute to correcting your inequality and making us all equal before the law. The D.A. has repeatedly warned, and I am glad that she has now warned that the institution needs to raise to another majority and what's good is that we finally have a unique body of art. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51725	Thank you. Reply to the replica of the representative Stranja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51726	Thank you, Mr. Mrsic. I was already very early after I came to this House and talked to you and it was quite clear to me that the difficulties we encountered about the unique body of art and I think it was a good idea. But I also think that the flow of time was too long to start now with the active education of the witches. Let's not take the defenders into the mouth again, the defenders will have within that centre special experts who will artificially all that is needed to speed up this process, but the process should be equal for all and I also consider it. But it can't happen that one child who has Down syndrome in Rijeka gets permanent disability and has to go to Osijek every year or in one Zagreb, it's absolutely unacceptable. It is unacceptable that for each one of its rights, it must be individually re-entered there. There are enough doctors who don't work for a single body of art, I'm also a court expert, there's a lot of doctors who can contribute to the education of those who work there and that could have been used by now. And we are now in a situation that after a year, two problems with Osijek, now moving into the education of those witches who have repeatedly violated certain rights of persons with disabilities. That's what I was gonna say. So the intention was good, but for three years waiting is absolutely unacceptable to try to change now, educate those who work there. It was quite logical that someone who had made certain assessments of disability for older people would be unsuitable to make an assessment of a baby born as a child with certain disabilities and difficulties, but for that they could take external witches. They're only doing it now, I hope they do it in quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51727	Representatives Strenja-Linić timed out. Thank you. Representative Lukačić responded for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51728	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleagues, in your presentation, you mentioned an already well-known unique body of art. It is true, I agree with you that there have been major problems with him from his own draft within the Office of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. But I'd love to, and that's why I have to say here that it's known what was the first and basic reason why the single body couldn't function. The lack of experts, the lack of people who did not want to go to work at the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and the law of the basics at that time did not allow the institution to hire experts on the contract of action. When the law changed and the situation began to change. Here I am happy to say today that the number of unsolved items has fallen below 40,000 somewhere around 36,000 and since here it has been in the last two, three months extremely much progress in solving the number of cases. I believe that we will finally solve all cases and that the articulation in all segments, therefore, of children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities after the adoption and this new law that is now in the amendments, changes and additions that we will finally give the institution the opportunity to determine disability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51729	Thank you. Replica response, representative Strena-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51730	Dear MPs, that's what I was actually going to say, so on 31.12.2016. there were 40,000 items now we are in the 10th month. 4000 less this year. So it's still far too many people who until they get that solution can't exercise their rights. It was meant to go a long way early to change the law and settle it in a way that they would team up with court warlocks and all those witches that could be used that exist within the health system. Because even those who were warlocks inside that center were not excavated and professional enough to perform any kind of damage that had suddenly come. Because we put it all in one place, but then it should have gone into reorganization a long time ago, so it would have done that. I think no matter how much they work, I think this speed will lead to it, that we will, because new items arrive by the new year, we will have 40,000 again, and then we will reduce them next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51731	Representative Opačić reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, colleagues of Strenja Linić, when you spoke about this unique body of art, I think you should continue to use your position through the parent board to put pressure on that body, to really do what it was established to do, which is that they have a unique methodology and assessment of the degree of disability and that they really have an equal solution for each injury, regardless of where the person was in Varazdin, Osijek or any other place. And when it comes to the accommodation of people in foster care, I think that the best accommodation in living communities, where people live in normal conditions, where they cook themselves, wash themselves, clean themselves, go to the movies, so they live a completely normal life, with the help of assistants, for that now they can get funds from European funds, because the EU supports this kind of home transformation. So, at the time of our government, about 500 people from our homes were moved into residential communities, 3 homes closed, I think the team should just move on. As far as foster and private homes are concerned, I agree with you, there is too little surveillance because there are not enough people in the inspection. This number of people who work simply doesn't arrive all in a system that has over 7,000 employees and I don't know how many 10,000 people who are located in certain institutions and homes. So we can't stop that kind of accommodation, but it needs to be strengthened by surveillance. And we, for example, are. They closed the Giakovica Fleet, one of the private homes where people lived far worse than what you've listed here and unfortunately in very inhumane conditions. Such likely conditions in much smaller homes are present, but there is a reaction and the inspection can only react after a tip, because unfortunately, there are not enough of them to do systematic control.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51733	Thank you. Replicate response, representative of Stranja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51734	Thank you for this comment. Dear MPs, I think it is definitely a solution to decentralisation of supervision and that we need to bring it down to one level, that as I say, the county will not be competent just to think about the minimum technical conditions, so that the home can be open and it can work, but also to monitor what is actually provided within that home, because if the accommodation of people who are suffering or after a stroke, after some kind of trauma, or persons with disabilities or with intellectual difficulties there needs a good professional medical supervision to see what conditions these persons are in. Believe me very often we would pull a patient out of the needle's ears after a severe stroke, after perhaps a month of lying at the clinic, that after maybe a few days, especially if high temperatures, such a patient returned to a impaired state of consciousness... And we would have realized, in fact, that we had just delivered him to some home, where he came, where he had no adequate care, where actually, his family had no access to see what was going on, until that patient, until they finally took the ambulance and brought him back to the hospital. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's something that we can't allow if we want to be a civilized society that takes care of its most vulnerable members, which is persons with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties and all those who can't really say loud enough and say how hard it is for me, how much help I need, we're the ones who need to take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51735	Thank you. Representative Babic, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51736	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, Strenja Linić, you spoke of a unique body of art and in fact what your previous colleague Opačić said, I would agree with that and the way it was imagined, I think it was well imagined, but what was left? There were no thorough analysis, there were no preparation of witches who could not actually classify all kinds of art and a large number of objects occurred. When we talk about these items, we're talking about such a flat-rate 40,000, 50,000 was 100,000, but that's 100,000 human fates. And it wasn't good, if it had been prepared more thoroughly, I think it would have been okay. Then you reached out in your debate about foster care and housing in family homes. I'm glad you talked about it, you said one example from Rijeka that it looks like someone from one level is being transferred to another environment. But the problem of deinstitutionalisation, i.e., the concept of deinstitutionalisation itself seems noble to the eye. He's got to be good too. But it was supposed to be very careful. We are then started with deinstitutionalization projects, but I'm just going to give you one example because of the shortness of time. You're a doctor. You know what it means to people with disabilities who need to know the fourth or fifth degree of care, or 24-hour care. For example in Center Stančić to move into some residential communities. That means they don't have any worries, so that means that that care is bad, that means it's not good. Some of the civil society associations in our society took advantage of it through opens society and... certain means so we can work on these things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That turned out to be very bad. Unfortunately, we're going to have to take over these people. We're not going to have enough resources, and we're shutting down the kind of centers that are necessary. and needed to be strengthened. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] I apologize for the weather, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51737	Thank you. Reply to the replica of Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51738	Mr. Babic, I'm glad you said that because I'm very familiar with that and you're absolutely right. So, we went to a quick deinstitutionalisation of persons who, for years as persons with disabilities, functioned within some of the institutions in some of the apartments where they believed me, every honour of every person with a minimum secondary school, so hairdressers, salesgirls had some kind of short education and were inserted into apartments where five people with intellectual difficulties were completely moved away without someone who would take care of their activities, without someone who could really follow because some of them have epileptic seizures and other severe chronic illnesses. And then you get into a situation where Soroshe's foundation pays for such an apartment and when those money disappears, for example, the city of Rijeka has to take care and find such an apartment and start financing. And the facility where they still had their friends, the people they hung out with, some sort of continuous activity and the facility shut down. It's a problem, and then we have that kind of deinstitutionalization, and then we have the institutionalization of children without parental care, and then we can boast that we have a huge number of children's homes where we move children into children's homes and have more children's homes than, 10 times more children's homes per capita than in one Germany, and we put children in homes instead of going absolutely straight into foster care. And the older people we deinstitutionalize that really much better care especially with a severe disability had inside one such institution. We've completely started what is actually needed and that's what, on that trail I'm actually going to fight and stand up for in my further work. So absolutely children deinstitutionalize but well consider which persons are older people for deinstitutionalisation. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51739	Thank you. Representative Celic called for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51740	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Strenja Linic and during these replicas there is much to be said what I thought. Right at the beginning, so not people with mental problems, but people with mental disorders. So it's a term we recommend to be used since the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation. In recent years, much has been done to amend the Household Act of 2011 and 2012, deinstitutionalisation is certainly necessary, but deinstitutionalisation does not necessarily mean the abolition of institutions. Unfortunately, we have particularly difficult cases that require institutional care. Of course it's necessary with us if we withdraw analogy, say, with psychiatric hospitals, it carries it to a reduction in the number of beds. So, at this point in the psych ward, if 200 beds are lifted, nothing significant will happen to the protection of people with mental disorders. So, the Institute of Excessive Business Capability at this point is very, very rare that it will be a complete seizure of business ability. These are all shifts for the better that should be emphasized. Also related to foster families. I've been working 15 years a day with foster families and I can tell you that the vast majority cares for quality. Now, what your colleague Opačić said, the matter of inspection, the issue of supervision, the licenses for foster care are given for 5 years. The centre may withdraw that license, but it is also a matter of supervisory mechanisms by the ministry, and it may be within the General State Inspectorate. That's something, so you in the law, the current Household Act, don't have any control in this way by the competent ministry. So, as it is said about the professionalization of foster care, and again the question is, so the foster home to what extent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51741	Thank you. The next club of representatives who applied for participation in the debate is the SDP Representatives' Club. In theirs, I apologize. The rapporteur took five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51742	Here's a thank you. Well, here's the shortest I'd like to say that it's not really up to any of us to decide what's best for the person we're setting up. I think we should ask that person and every one of us for all of that. I think we all want to be asked where we will live, how we will live, and how we will live. What Mrs. Strenja Linic said in one segment that many people living today in institutions are not asked where they want to live and whether their choice is to live in the facility. And even when they show an initiative to want to get out of that facility, we have a situation where we don't have a service in the community or where it came from, and not in any way to satisfy this particular need, desire, will and the like, let alone that they would be rehabilitated in that community or that they might be able to engage in certain activities. We must say that institutions are not only located in older people, but it is indeed a significant number of people who are in a very active, working age so that different damages and not only talk about people with mental disorders or psychosocial disability, but also about people with physical disabilities, but also about people with intellectual difficulties of different aspects. So again I return to the right of the individual, to the right of choice, the Republic of Croatia has signed the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, has set out for the accommodation of forms in the manner according to the right to choose the right of the individual and I ask that we determine in this section, that these persons should be questioned about what is happening with them and their future determines. What I emphasized in my introduction, many of them today survive in these institutions, and they are actually being guarded rather than actually living a full life. As for the inspection work, we had meetings, etc., after this publication when it was published and adopted, and I have to say that what you yourself said, the Ministry, social care centres, they actually have no way or kind of control of the inspection such that they are actually controlling infringements of the rights of those persons and how and how they live, but indeed these technical conditions and some other segments related to finance, irregularities, etc. It is an extremely small number of people who are involved in the inspection, what Mrs. Strenja-Linić said at the Ministry of Demography, it is some 2, 3 teams, it is about 15 people who really can't cover all the problems and all that comes from different forms of concern. In this segment, I am going back to the beginning and I say that there is a lack of personnel capacity, although we are talking about a ban on employment, I think that the possibility of staffing should be opened in this segment because we simply do not have adequate supervision or an indication of sanctions and the implementation of those sanctions so that persons with disabilities are indeed the most qualified and best placed according to their own choices. In order to live an entirely independent life in the community, we must also prepare a community for such a thing, we must prepare services, so that the development of different directions and the development of networks of services in the community rather than in one direction alone should be parallel. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51743	Representative Babic called in a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51744	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This is a respected attorney, and it's very important that you finally said that although you're at the beginning, I have to say that I didn't understand how a person with disabilities would choose between a foster family and the rest of the institution, I understand that, but you have those who can't, who can't determine that. And last you said, it's important to get through the local self-government units and in the deinstitutionalisation project, no one asks or consults those people at all. That's not good. And the recommendation may be to you. And it would be useful and useful for all disabled people, it might be good if we all thought today in our society that people with disabilities get their commissioner at all levels of public authority. Perhaps then we could do this sort of thing that happens to you in society, and about improving the status of people with disabilities, much easier and better solved because then we would have information that would then go from down to up and certainly help us. And something else maybe that wasn't about your replica, but I forgot to say it in that first replica, and I know it, and I talked to people with disabilities then, and that's that maybe we should try to create this successor fund that would be one great security especially for people with disabilities who are left without both parents, and I know that it hurts them very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51745	The next replica was from MP Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51746	Well, I'm glad you're talking about this foster home transformation. You're a partner to every ministry, so you've been a partner to us at a time when, I'd say, we've accelerated that home transformation, and the fact is that in every home of transformation, there have been expert teams, that no one from the home has left without the consent of the expert team. An expert team who lived with these people in an institution and assessed who could live in a residential community, who couldn't, with the consent of both guardians and users to go to a residential community. Those who could not manage in the residential community could return to the institution. And the institutions that are closed, you just need to know that, colleagues and colleagues, are in such a state, you can ask that to your colleague Marić, the minister of property, are in such a state that none of us would hold a dog in such conditions and let alone people. Therefore, living communities were simply a new discovery for them. A better and better life. Some people in the housing communities after six months took off from the therapy they had because it was some minor difficulties that kind of calmed down the moment that they kind of settled down the moment they came into a more stable environment than it was in the institution. People who were definitely able to live in residential communities were moved out, and she'd like to say one more time. No one's been forced, everyone's been moved in with a conversation. And of course, the institutions remain all those departments that have to take care of those who need 24-hour care, as well as Stancic, are all those departments that have to take care of people who are on catheters, who are much more for medicine, for a hospital than they are for some kind of welfare facility.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51747	A SDP representative club has applied for participation in the debate, MP Romana Jerkovic will speak on their behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51748	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with Associates, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will, of course, support the Ombudsman's 2016 report on the work of persons with disabilities. As usual, we believe that the report is of great quality, that it is detailed and comprehensive and talks about the different aspects of the lives of people with disabilities who in the Republic of Croatia are definitely neither simple nor carefree nor deprived of problems. This report is always a story of real life problems and life difficulties faced by persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia and addressed by the Ombudsman. Whoever has any knowledge of your work, Madam Attorney knows that you are doing it very professionally and committed to protecting and promoting the interests and rights of persons with disabilities. All these years you have promoted and promoted in a very recognizable way, and not only that, you have achieved excellent quality cooperation with all associations and institutions that act in the interest of persons with disabilities. True, it took more than 5.6 months for the government last year to appoint you again after the term of office. That way the office was left without a leader which is not good but it certainly doesn't talk about you, it says more about the failure of state institutions in the past year. It is likely that no one in the state administration is particularly concerned that people with disabilities were dissatisfied and disappointed with the fact that the office without a leader is so long and that it has also been reflected in the reduction of the institution’s address to the Ombudsman by as much as 20%. What does this report tell us? This report tells us that persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia in the 21st century are poorly educated, mostly unemployed and the poorest group in society, and that immediately, automation makes them a highly disadvantaged and socially endangered part of the community. We must in no way forget that we are talking about 11% of the total population, which means that practically every 9th person in the Republic of Croatia is a person with disabilities. And what do you say after this? Perhaps you should say that politics must finally undergo a serious transformation according to this part of the population. But the question is, can we think that only an extremely wealthy state can give that part of the population what they need? And when I say what they need, then I think about what we consider basic human needs, all of us and others. The need to educate ourselves, the need to have health care, the need to have freedom of movement, the need for social life. Do we really think that the financial wealth of the state is a key prerequisite for transforming our policies towards people with disabilities so that they can finally exercise the rights that belong to them? If we think that, then we're definitely wrong because in that case, it's going to take 30, 40, 50 years, maybe, and nobody actually has that kind of time at their disposal. I have a report in my hand. Excuse me. It's not a report. It's the government's opinion of the Attorney General's report. So 12 pages of bureaucratic text that has been deprived would say a minimum of decency and understanding of the issue. It's obvious they're angry, so the author is mad at the attorney's report and they're writing about what it's all been done in the past. I'd say it's completely irrelevant at this point what's been done, that it's much more important that it's not done and what should be changed and what else should be done. And I wonder what if the government or maybe not the government, perhaps the ministries, or perhaps not the ministries, might be the state administration, instead of spending too much time writing too long opinions on the report of lawyers who have been informed of an independent body that we have appointed the Croatian Parliament, in which they are polluting with the attorney to think about what to do to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, how to enable them to work, how to provide them with access to education at all levels, how to create conditions for every child with developmental difficulties to achieve the right to health, inclusive education, rehabilitation in the area where they live, for those same children to provide diagnostics, provide treatments, experts, logos, rehab, physiothers, etc. Is it not unacceptable that only 40% of children with the most severe disability should be covered by certain services of 7 years of age and mostly by services provided by associations. Let's just imagine what a burden it is for parents, to imagine what a burden it is for their working ability, for the whole family. Why government, for example? Not interested in the fact that in the 21st century there are architectural barriers that prevent people with disabilities from moving freely? Imagine the absurdity that the Ombudsman received 127 complaints last year concerning infringements of the right of access to public services carried out in non-accessible buildings of public use such as the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, such as the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, such as social care centres. And you'll admit it's really devastating data. For example. HZMO, do you know how many there are? 114. Do you know how accessible they are? Not a single building, not a single building. HZO, do you know how many are fully accessible from 132 buildings? It's only nine. Welfare centers, out of 110, do you know how many are fully accessible? It's only eight. And we come up with a figure that out of 356 of these institutions only 17 are fully accessible. What are we talking about? And we have a law that regulates it since 2007. So out of the total number of public spaces, only 4.7% are available, so that the matter is even clearer. But the government notices with brilliant acuity in the report, for example. on page 4 that the lawyer uses the wrong expressions of higher education and not high school education. So who cares? Is that so important? Does that have to be in the report and fill the pages? In my view, this is a completely unnecessary article because after such a view of the government, we are neither smarter nor more people with disabilities feel better and even less benefit from it. Or, for example, on page 5 you get you get the attorney general's lesson about what's high or higher professional cook, again using the wrong expressions. To which absurdity we brought all together. On page 6 the government gives a brilliant reference to accessibility and mobility problems for people with disabilities. So, note HZMO, Health Insurance and Centres, the Government proposes to add the following sentence in the report: "Croatian Pension Insurance Institute within the framework of available financial resources, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable regulations, ensure accessibility for persons with disabilities". Well, it's not enough. Not in 2017, it's not enough because it won't increase mobility by exponential speed, it certainly won't. I won't even mention that by justifying myself with this part in accordance with the provisions of the applicable regulations, you're actually saying that it's okay and it's not right. It's not okay, it's all wrong because while taxi drivers refuse to translate a blind person, while disabled children have no access to kindergartens, while people with disabilities have no access to education, public services, while they are hard to hire, while there are so many architectural barriers, while there is no system of requalification that would allow people with disabilities to work, while so many are without personal assistants, while the social situation of people with disabilities is becoming increasingly difficult and the work of the state reduces financial resources, the government deals with linguistic forms and spelling. So let's get this over with. There's absolutely no use in this. Because this raises an extremely important question as to why we have defenders, what are reports that fill hundreds of pages each year? What is it, llar pour lar? Then is that what we need? To remind the Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, we have appointed her to suit us, not the Government or the Ministry. Why are we forgetting that? Because the report doesn't say the attorney general, the report writes the lives and fates of people with disabilities, desperate people who don't know what they'd do anymore and who they'd turn to and who they'd turn to at the Attorney General. And when she talks about their problems then she wants to point out that politics, government and ministries and all of us together can and must do more. And it's up to us just to admit that's the way it is and try to reach out. Because sometimes it just takes a little bit, sometimes only a small effort of the state is enough, and for them it can mean a huge impact. This report serves to see what people with disabilities are facing, which prevents them from meeting their basic and human needs that are the key problems of this population, which will make their daily lives easier and easier, simpler and better. And when are we finally going to start seeing the defenders as partners on a common road and with a common goal? Because if our goal and our common path aren't, if they're not our common goal and our path, then someone's gone astray and they're too far gone. No matter who's in charge. I know the replica will be enough and you will ask me and what the SDP did, what we did but it has to stop because those who are watching us and especially people with disabilities absolutely don't care who's in power now. They're just interested in being, to allow them to meet their basic needs of life. They don't ask for more than that, they don't ask for more than we do. The office has therefore made a number of recommendations to state authorities, local and regional self-government units, as well as to some other and physical and legal persons in order to remove prejudice, change attitudes and opinions on the abilities and opportunities of disabled persons, with the Ombudsman always offering concrete suggestions on how to improve their quality of life. Let's hope for a better time when politics will truly serve as attorneys and consider you a true partner. I would like to conclude the debate on the report on behalf of the SDP club by saying that politics in the Republic of Croatia towards people with disabilities in the last 10 years has changed, that it has improved, that 10 years have passed since we ratified the Convention, extremely important, and that certain positive trends and abandonment are seen, I would say exclusively the state policy medical model towards human rights policy. It's important and it's very good. In this direction there is also a need to continue and progress in the visibility of people with disabilities. That's where you get the credit, Madam Attorney General. And finally, regardless of the invisible financial situation in which we are in this problem, it is indeed necessary to approach systematically and interdisciplinaryally, with greater respect for the efforts and opinions of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51749	Thank you. Representative Dark Taritash has come forward for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51750	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Jerkovic, in your presentation, you have actually touched the basic topics of importance of the defender, the importance of the report, the relations of the Parliament and the executive authority. Not so long ago this spring, we were participants in the adoption of a law, where we gave up counsel, or guardian for children. Equally such a meaning report is not only that it gets one attention during the time when the report is but also not that the government is behind it talking about the report as it is, but that it moves forward and that this report really says from the last time we did it and we'll do the following. But I'm afraid we don't deal with content, we don't deal with what the reports say no matter what, so we try to be better through the executive power. But if the report doesn't suit us, or if we don't respond to what it says, then we give up that lawyer, or we make a law, and that law says that the lawyers will be different. Which is exactly what you've listed through your exposure, and what I want to suggest. After what we had a chance to see late this spring. Today is the day and the debate of five candidates has appeared to the Ombudsman and we will talk to them and this House will propose who will be the guardian for the children. My question all the time is when and who's the next attorney, which report we won't be satisfied with, and that's the report from the field, what you see in a moment. And the dissatisfaction isn't because we did something so we were better than the last report, but because we didn't want to do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51751	Replicate response, MP Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51752	Thank you very much. If only we could at least respect the lawyer in the way that it should be done. After all, we named them, not for no reason. We appointed them to help with their expertise, their knowledge, their human qualities, to solve major social problems, to point to these problems. To speak openly of them, to call for their solution, to offer a solution, all that our lawyers do. What are we doing? Permission granted. The Croatian Parliament allows the government to take note of the lawyer's report we have appointed, which we have appointed. What is this relationship between the Government and the Croatian Parliament? Then the majority of the parliament, as ordered by the government, is voting on the lawyer's report, i.e. the prosecutor's office. Isn't that wrong? Not to use any other expression. Instead of listening, we see what those reports say. I'm sure that by any chance we've listened to the critic's instructions, the counsel's remarks so far, we've solved a lot of problems in society, and without much money. Is it a matter of political brains or what, I don't know. But some things have to change if as a society we want to be better and go in a better direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51753	Replica was reported by MP Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51754	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Minister Jerkovic, I think you have very well underlined the fact that by not respecting the Ombudsman's institution, we do not really respect ourselves, because we have appointed them and they should be our eyes and ears as legislators who will help us bring solutions in this House Parliament, legal solutions above all that will help our citizens, in this case citizens with disabilities. When we talk about people with disabilities, when we talk about reports from any of our attorneys, we don't just talk about, especially when we talk about people with disabilities, we don't just talk about human rights, we talk about basic human dignity. You were talking about the fact that most of our public institutions, again I will say publicly, are not difficult for mobile persons or immobilized persons. I'll give you just one example, the Social Services Center in one Slavonic town on the 4th floor. It leads to over 150 steps, it is impossible to overcome a difficult mobile person, a person with disabilities, who is the centre’s user and who must come to the center. You were talking about transforming into a policy towards this population, and I'd like to underline something that's more of a matter of good organisation and goodwill than of the very new means. Because I think education and integration of people with disabilities in their peer society, so, first of all, I'm talking about children is extremely important. And that's where we get the assistant project in class. Adversaries in teaching to help teachers, therefore, concentrate on students who may need more help, but those students go to regular classes, to associate with their peers, and such an example of such socialization can only contribute to the fact that when they grow up they will first be motivated to school, to go to school, and eventually to be productive members of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51755	Replicate response, MP Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51756	Thank you very much. Here's a chance for me to say something positive and nice to mention a good example, an example of a city I come from. In fact, you mentioned helpers in the course, about a month ago there was a signing and contract delivery ceremony within the project called for grants and Rijeka withdrew 8.3 million kuna from the European Social Fund which is extremely important and an example of how units of local self-government, cities and municipalities can do very much and not wait for state aid because the implementation of this project is two benefits. On the one hand, it is support for children who will be helped to carry out their school duties, so in every sense and on the other hand, employability is increasing. This is the fourth year in a row for Rijeka to withdraw funds even though the project started eight years ago. So 8 years ago, she invested about 3 and a half million assets, her own resources, thus in some way being defined for inclusive education. Here's a good example, an example of the river, which I think we should follow other units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51757	Representative Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51758	Speaking of respected colleagues, about the needs of disabled people, you talked about other needs. The need for education, the need for health care, the need for a job, which is all about money. But there's one need that's not conditioned by money. That's the need for equality. And with us disabled people are not equal. So it's not a question of money, it's a question of morality, it's a question of humanity, it's a question of empathy, it's a question of heart, it's a question of mind and intelligence. We have two types of people with disabilities. Wartime men with disabilities and civilian disabilities. Their disability in Croatia is not equally valued. The degree of disability is not equally valuable. It's like a human eye isn't an eye, like a human hand isn't a hand, like a human leg isn't a leg. Well, someone's eye is worth more than someone's. Someone's arm's worth more, someone's less. And disability pensions are different. It's a question of society's righteousness, it's a question of all of us, whether we want to be just people or not. Then it's about the D.A., and then I think it's the job and the lawyer, the lawyer, anyone, to take this inequality away because that inequality is an insult to the disabled, the disabled, and the insult to all of us, is an insult to the entire people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51759	Reply to the replica of representative Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51760	There is no good society without social justice, and this is difficult and should be added to anything. We should all show a lot more sensitivity to our fellow citizens' problems together. The more the solution to a number of problems takes just a little effort and sometimes a little money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51761	The replica was reported by Commissioner Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51762	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Jerkovic, I see you spoke with a lot of empathy about this report and then you caught the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but you should know that the Ombudsman for people with disabilities or the public defender is the authority of the Croatian Parliament and that he is mostly referencing to the bodies of the public authorities all those incapacitations put before persons with disabilities and responsibilities of the Government to be seen about it. The fact that we can talk now about whether there were some linguistic escapades that might not have been in this report as little as possible, but as a scientist, you know that according to that "volant script manent", you must leave it written for yourself to know that the government has shown itself to be the prosecutor's report for children. But after that, we started with replicas, and then we started talking about the Ombudsman for the children, and we said we wouldn't talk about the SDP and HDZ governments. And to all of you who have replicated it, another for the sake of correcting the false quote. A child lawyer was elected under the law passed by the SDP. And according to that same law, it was resolved because it was the law. So you solved it. When you talk about the Ombudsman for children and her report, is it not enough for you to say that she ultimately recommends that children in Croatia learn foreign languages and that they leave this country as soon as possible? So where are the more embarrassing statements about a child counsel? I don't think that's a good thing, that we've chosen one wrong person and we have to be very careful who the attorneys are in our homeland, those who should be dealing with certain rights, in this case for children's rights. When you talk about the fact that the Ombudsman may not have been appointed for four months, I would like to say one more sentence that you have Mrs. Pekic here, with her eye, watching everything necessary for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51763	Thank you. Reply to the replica of representative Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51764	Comrade Babic, speaking of correcting false allegations, then I must reach for it and correct you in my replica. Namely, I'll remind you that the child's attorney has somehow been replaced, not in some way, by a new law that you've passed by your majority. So it's not exactly what you said. It's sad that every four years like I said, we're making a political problem out of it again. And not to see how professional someone is, how good someone does their job, but something else we shouldn't. Yeah, there's something else I wanted to tell you, that about the report, there's no one against the government giving its opinion but that opinion is now on pages 12, 20, 30, all longer and longer. And the government actually spends its energy and justice to explain, justifying why something didn't work out, and instead of spending energy on making quality steps and changing things for the better. It's wrong in the government's opinion. What does the Government have to note? Well, it's not for the government to take note, so we're the ones who can, we take note and evaluate the report and the work of the attorney. It's up to the government to work, to work, not anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51765	Representative Lukačić reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51766	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Jerkovic, I must admit, honestly, that your debate was very impressive. And I believe that many people with disabilities who watched this will say that, that's the way to speak. And perhaps I would believe in that too if you didn't remember the reduction in the rights of disabled persons just at the time your party was in power. Even today I didn't mean to talk about it, but I just have to say, when those most vulnerable groups of people with disabilities were taken 500 kunas with which they could pay for the directorship and only 200 kunas were given, so the voucher for electricity, 300 kunas were taken from them. A lot of people told me it was scary for them. And if we didn't have such cases from your party's rule, we might be able to solve some problems today. Remember, from the first time, that this government has since day one, Minister Murganić, with the resolution of personal assistants, etc., etc., so far, we have solved many problems, many of them still visible from the prosecutor's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51767	Reply to the replica of representative Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51768	My colleagues greatly appreciate your contribution and everything you do at all levels to help make the problems that objectively exist and which you yourself are more and better aware of than the rest of us. So I really appreciate all your efforts and I don't want to be rude but there is no luck in this country, there is no luck for Croatia as long as we talk this way. If I had never been a minister, I would never have touched the right person with disabilities, I would never have done that. However, I would have increased them. But what good would it be to discuss it in a way like this that was 2, 3 or 6 years ago? As long as we look back, our future is vague and cloudy. And it can't ultimately be an excuse for those who are in power right now, it can't be an alibi for inaction, it can't be an alibi for not making changes for the better because, I mean, we want to talk about Ustashas and Partisans again or what? Maybe it's Hansel Racan's fault or, well, that doesn't make sense. That really doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51769	The replica was reported by the representative of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51770	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jerkovic, I didn't mean to answer for the replica, but I just had to. I agree with your final statement on behalf of the SDP club, and that's where you put the SDP club's position, and that's where you put the SPD's position and basically supported the prosecutor's report. A man who was looking somewhere on the side and wasn't directed enough maybe into matter would've really thought that you were talking about the attorney general's report for people with disabilities. But it was evident that you had shed a lot of bile by saying and thinking about each other's report, of another attorney. I've come to you for this very reason, you've said so nicely about people with disabilities, so much for people with disabilities, so do people with disabilities deserve to be on behalf of one party's club when it comes to the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities that you're actually thinking about another report and one other attorney. Do people with disabilities deserve that? And you know exactly what you're talking about and you know what I'm talking about right now. And I really don't need to go back but I'm really asking you, you can't speak for yourself here, you spoke for the club, you spoke for the party you represent here in the Parliament today, you can't comment on what was done before. Have you read the opinions given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities for 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015? Did you read that? Was this report similar to or was it similar to this present one or was it something different? Did they give any concrete solutions? It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51771	Reply to the replica of representative Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51772	I didn't understand anything, but really, will someone help me? I don't even understand what you're talking about, yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51773	A representative of Putica called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51774	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Jerkovic, you said in your debate that it is necessary to change the policy of which Croatia should actually go to the future. I believe primarily that you were referring to employment policy, health system policy, but certainly also to educated policy, because about how Croatia today and especially in the future will treat people with disabilities, depends on our system of education and on how we will educate our youngest to treat people with disabilities. She would like to say something about children with disabilities and children with special needs. I would like to underline and remind myself of the part of yesterday's debate with the parliamentary committees on which we discussed it with the Ombudsman herself and said that we must determine the direction in which Croatia wants to go in politics towards associations. Unfortunately, I must tell you that in the competition of the Ministry of Science and Education for children with disabilities and children with special needs, related to assistants in the follow-up, there is a major mess going on. There is a disturbance of a flood of associations which unfortunately, neither human nor professional capacities, are sufficiently equipped to provide services to children with special needs, to have assistants in the follow-up, but it is only the secondary activity of these associations, and in fact, they just want to withdraw financial resources from the Croatian budget. I'm not saying it's a rule, it's exceptions, but we have to keep an eye on, that we have real associations in competitions and that we can provide children with adequate assistance in the education system. You were also talking about local self-government units. I also come from Dubrovnik, which is seen as a richer city, a city with a large budget, but budgets are not always the ones who determine the policy of the local self-government unit. They are determined by the priorities that these units of local self-government give themselves, so I can say that in Dubrovnik you have a new strategy that can bring all units to 2020 and more One million kuna that stands out on a strategy for people with disabilities. [[Invader Petrov: Thank you, time is up for MPs.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51775	Thank you. Replicate response, MP Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51776	Thank you very much, colleague Putica, for bringing us back to the scale of things, thank you from your heart. You've touched several very important topics. The truth is, in fact, the state must have a clear policy and a clear strategy on more important social issues. If she had one and the country did, a lot of things would get rid of it a lot and easier. You have touched and the problem of hiring persons with disabilities is indeed a big problem. Not only because people with disabilities are harder to hire, but because those who are employed are very often employed in business and jobs that are absolutely not adequate for their education, so to their professional preparation and their abilities and capacities, etc. As far as local self-government units are concerned, it's a matter of priority, but also sensitivity. You know if you have a sensitivity, then it helps you get something important into the priority. Because I can say that in the case of my city, here I come back to it, we've hired 12 people with disabilities at City Hall, we've hired one blind person in elementary school and one person in cerebral palsy, in a group of people with central paralysis. So it can be done when sensitivity becomes a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51777	Representative Strenja Linic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51778	Well, I'd actually like to read it, because obviously people with disabilities are closely following this debate of ours today. The message I received from the parents of children who are in the education center Vinko Bek, which is not to be worse, let's keep at least what we've had in recent years, let's not get any worse. And their message this year is that we didn't get assistants, and it's about blind kids with extra problems in primary school, and it's really hard for them to move all the ministries to each other, and children suffer. Since this school year, we have run out of assistants that we need because we are in inadequate conditions, in the premises of Filipović, 22 which are not adapted for children with multiple damages. In the last two years, we've been assigned one year four, and next year seven assistants. We didn't get any assistants this year. Here they are educated and rehabilitated, children, younger and adults with visual impairment. Some of them also have additional influential difficulties such as reduced intellectual functioning of autism, ADHD attention disorders, speech difficulties, undeveloped speech, motor interference. There are very few students in primary school who have only visual impairment. There are 3 to 5 students in each class or group. One professor of educational rehabilitation works with them. We already have the need for an assistant in the work in groups, since children and students with multiple damages that they need to continue and isolate. Without assistants, it's not possible, because in that case we'd be alone in a room, which is given their health and mental difficulties. There is also a big problem with going on trips, walking, going to the theatre and cinema and the rule and profession, and saying that it is then accompanied by one person with impaired vision, one person who helps him. We therefore need assistants in our daily activities. This year we didn't get any assistants, and our students don't go for walks, they don't go to the park, they can't get alone, because there's no one to be with. For the last two years, our children have had a better quality of life, both inside the school and including themselves in everyday life outside of school. It's a message from the parents of the children from this school.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51779	Excuse me. Time's up. Representative Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51780	My colleagues, Strenja Linic, that's what I was talking about, is how many units of local self-government can do. It might be good to organise a thematic session of the Health and Social Policy Committee, to which you will invite the leaders of local self-government units to show examples of good practice and help others also engage in this regard and withdraw funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51781	Representative Celic called for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51782	Thank you, Vice President. The distinguished MPs from your performance are clear to read that you are an opposition politician and I welcome no matter how much I disagree with you, I welcome the way you put it. However, I am surprised that the government could not give its opinion. If you look at everything, reports from all agencies, let's say a report from the Financial Agency, a report from HAMAG, a report from the State's Attorney's Office. For all reports, the government of the Republic of Croatia is giving its opinions and we are all commended. I think it's commendable to the D.A.'s report on persons with disabilities who are rightly critical of certain issues towards certain ministries. And I don't see any reason why the government of the Republic of Croatia couldn't show itself on the D.A.'s report to people with disabilities. You have made one first-class political issue that definitely has certain implications for each other's defences and then comes to all this by a politician Mr. Stazic who then questions the difference between wartime and civilian people with disabilities. Well, it exists everywhere. If he didn't know it, I don't know why he didn't question martial law during Yugoslavia, but he suddenly found himself smart about something like that. So, I wish you'd talked a lot more about content itself, that you'd praised all your efforts a lot more, although they weren't excluded by the Attorney General's Office for people with disabilities who work very hard. But I don't see any reason why the government of the Republic of Croatia couldn't possibly do it any longer, but I say look at the State's Attorney's Office report. And it has several pages where the government gives its opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51783	Reply to the replica of representative Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51784	Thank you very much. Well, I'm not against the government's opinion. I'm just against the government's opinion. So the difference is big. It's okay and it's good for the government to read the D.A.'s report and show us that she's read and understood. But I don't agree with the D.A.'s office teaching her senses. And I do not like it on page 4. to say, "The government of the Republic of Croatia notes that the title of a whole should be higher education, not higher school education." On page 143, instead of "high school" the term "high education" should stand. Are you kidding? Shall we move on? Page 5. On page 159, it is stated: “Stakeholders who have high or higher professional equipment. On page 296, it is stated: “Police officers are more or less qualified” but that is not good, it is not good. Because the law says that other expressions must be used, so I guess nobody understands this, so neither does the lawyer understand anything. So, buddy, come on, please. I'm not against the government's opinion, but this. What is this? And you'll one day be an opposition representative, you know, so I'm wondering if you'll change your mind about the government's opinion. What do I care?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51785	Representative Vučetic answered the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51786	Dear colleagues, I would just like to warn you that this report is not an invitation to a political discussion between two parties or two political options that have shown one impotence and insufficient action in relation to the needs of people with disabilities. This report is a report of our social and political impotence and inability to meet the needs of our citizens who have a disability problem. We respect the D.A. when we respect people with disabilities. Not when we correctly opposition it from the executive and legislative authority. It's clear to me that you couldn't develop nostalgia at first from either political platform because you couldn't find anything but the need to reconsider your own decisions. And that's why, in these discussions, you've succumbed to complicating your own inaction with the inaction of others. That's what the left and right sides do in this assembly. And what we really need here, which is to develop a sense of social justice, to develop a sense of respect for people with disabilities when we develop mechanisms of active care, when we do some work that will help them, when we involve them in society, and not when we turn them into viewers of our infertile debates, which we are doing right now. People with disabilities are citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have problems and have problems partly because we produced them. I agree with you that what the government has done is that it's one attempt to lecture on black and it doesn't fit. But we still don't solve the problems of this population. Thank you. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51787	Replicate response, MP Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51788	My dear colleague, you're young, but aside from years, it seems to me as far as your political standing is concerned, so I won't blame you for what you've said. In my debate on behalf of the club there was no bile, as my colleague Hrg said, there were no calls for provocation and the story of Ustashas and Partisans. In my debate on behalf of the club, I talked about something very important, but not quite openly, and this is the relationship between the Parliament and the Government and the inferior, subordinated roles and positions of this Parliament in relation to the Government. And that government demonstrates it to us all the time. It's what the government is constantly showing us and making fun of us. And he's mocking us all the time he's giving his opinions on the defense attorney's reports. And my message was that it should stop, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51789	For participation in the debate, the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club will be registered on their behalf by representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51790	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Attorney, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. And this debate shows exactly what kind of hypocrites we are, in the political categories of left and right, talk about the problems of people we don't generally understand. We pretend to have compassion, and the last thing they need in their lives is ours or anyone else's condolences. So a minimum of decency would be to show understanding, and if we already understand what it is that when we come in a position to make decisions, we make decisions that involve them and solve their problems. Because people with disabilities did not become this because they were members of one or other political parties, different ways of gaining disability, and the state persistently and constantly mocking them, humiliates them because it estimates not their disability but the way they acquired it. And so not only does segregation and discrimination between those who are not persons with disabilities and those who are, but it's very actively carefully thought out and it's done it on purpose for a long time to discrimination and division within the entire population of people with disabilities, naively believing that it's going to fight them, that if it gives one more and the other less have some on its side, and it's actually a very bad policy. None of the 14 governments of the Republic of Croatia have the right to come to the Croatian Parliament and to say that they have done something colossal good for people with disabilities, none, which does not mean that many of them have tried. But the effort wasn't enough, but in many ways there was also perpetuating evil. So let's say one detail, let's say that in front of the unique body of art, we had 40,000 requests, and here we were able to get four in eight months, and now there's only 36,000. By the end of the year there might be 35.5. Well, that's great news, it's only going to take 14 years to resolve the requirements received, and until then, people who are looking for a relevant document and evidence on the basis of which they can exercise their rights, as far as states are concerned, are free to die. According to that ancient Egypt, “it is up to you to die, and all that is left is upon us. ” The government's task is to use transparent and quality public funds to provide basic services to citizens. The mission of the state is to try to level all people in their chances. They're not by nature things, but it's the state's duty to give them the conditions by which they will equalize their chances. So no Government of the Republic of Croatia has the right to publish this report by quality but only possibly inform the Croatian Assembly if something in this report is not correct and why it is considered responsible. And secondly, it would be smarter for her, regardless of who was her prime minister, whoever was 12th or who is now 14th to report each year to the Croatian Parliament what the government has done as a top, as the crown of the executive government, as those who have the money to be followed by recommendations and conclusions, let's say the Ombudsman for people with disabilities she gave last year. Not to be after that Dalmatian "Speak it or load of revs". A brief report read by most parliamentary representatives, I hope so, unfortunately does not contain conclusions and recommendations. They're in that 300-story extension and some pages, and the conclusions and recommendations themselves are defeating. There's nothing to understand about the colossal new, there were both last year and the throats and years ago, but everyone's deafening. Let's say this detail, that the key institutions that people with disabilities are managed to solve their administrative problems are actually inaccessible, so HZZO, HZMO, welfare centres are designed so that people with disabilities can't come there. And if they do not come, they will not ask a thing, and whoever asks nothing or gets nothing. It is the logic of bureaucracy that is most important to be on the 4th or 5th floor, and less important to it that it cannot be reached if you are with the helpers, if you are in a wheelchair and if there is no natural elevator. It is extremely important for Croatia to acquire 7.8.9 fighter aircraft and pay 7.8 billion kuna for it, this will solve all the problems of people with disabilities including that they will only be able to imagine that there are elevators in public buildings. So why didn't we buy two? And for those two, three or four that are left to buy elevators and install into key state institutions. For example, the lawyer says, and it has been repeating for years that the narrow throat of the body of public skill actually humiliates people. Imagine how parents of a child with special needs who need to be evaluated by a single body in order for their child to have the right to go to kindergarten or the right to a personal assistant or the right to any other. And that's what they've been waiting for for a year. In the meantime, they have to work, they have to take care of that child, isn't it defeating that only 40% of children with the most severe forms of disability and age up to 7 years of age have professional help? How's it gonna be when they're 20 or 50? If there's no sense of need to help the most vulnerable, to those who can't take care of themselves yet, no way. Secondly, the attorney-in-law rightly warns that this violation of human rights or in this particular case, civil law when a person judges and sentences you to know why, therefore, you have the right to have an argument that our courts are regularly destroying and declaring opinions or solutions to the pension body, or this body of art, as illegal because they are not justified. The ministry, the government says it sees nothing controversial. So the ministry says it's no problem that someone breaks the law. Well, she's a poor government, poor and this Parliament that puts up with it. So I can turn you down and they don't have to tell you why they did it. When we talk about teamwork, we can keep crying and moaning, and next year we'll also say no educators, logos, different experts from medical professions, no one who would sit in a unique body of art, we don't have enough people for assistants, we don't have this, we don't have that. So she said that she made pancakes to have a pan, like no oil, and that they would certainly be good to have milk like no flour. How many countries have approved a scholarship for the education of experts who will work as experts in these systems in 3, 4, 5 or 6, 8 years? Is that what we talked about? Why don't we channel a part of the budget to educate the people we say aren't there today? If we continue to whine, then they will not be, because the system that rests on moaning and moaning is certainly not the one who attracts professional people. They'll go somewhere else like they're leaving now. They're desperate parents of children who have disorders for autistic spectrum. There aren't enough professional people to help them. The state doesn't care about their problems at all. The way they would have obtained the right to have their children enter their kindergarten is extremely complicated. They've been waiting eight to ten months. Well, clearly, it's not a simple problem, but the state does not show the will to address the basic needs of parents of children with autistic spectrum disorder. And then what happens to us? Charlatans, thieves come, and offer them, beware, offer them prayer communities rehabilitation for autistic spectrum disorder. I hope that during this year and year, you will already be inspecting the famous City of Angels that the media wrote about, which is developing with the direct assistance of the Croatian Salesian community. I'm just hoping that in the pharmacy, we won't be given prayers when we get the disease medications that we've been diagnosed with. And finally, I'm going to repeat something I said about this pay phone five times, and I'm going to be very happy to say it again, let the whole world know and let us know. Five people with the same disability. A person who lost a leg in a car accident. The person who was born without a leg. The person who lost her leg at work. The person who lost a leg in the war as a member of the Armed Forces and a civilian disabled war. None of those five people have the same extremities. And they have the same disability. If you knew the difference between one and the fifth, you'd be sick. And then you'd just see how hypocritical, unfair and insolent this country is. And while some have the right to a wheelchair with the same disability every five years, others have the right to car every seven years. I'm not sure the Croatian defenders fought for unfair society. And I'm not sure you tell any of them if you're willing to have a child who has the same disability as you, be five times less glad to this country and have less chances. Of course he's going to say he's not, and all people will gladly give up what belongs to them in favor of the one who's weaker. But in this House, we voted in the first reading of a law by which only on the basis of pension rights until 2025, a figure that will be alimony from the state budget because there is no accumulation in the funds of others, an additional 3 billion and 700 million kuna. How are we going to explain this to parents of children with the same disability? What do we teach them about the righteousness of this society? Has our heart stopped on TV the other day, where the mother of a child with severe atrophy, who can't even breathe on her own, says she's moving to Germany because the health system there will immediately recognize her difficulties, the difficulty of her child and do everything to make life easier for that child. I was embarrassed. Our country won't recognize that. Do you remember a few months ago when a public debate was being held about whether the state should provide funds for medicines to severe children whose only chance to survive, so the Ministry of Health was thinking for weeks thinking about whether these diagnosiss were difficult enough to let these children die or help them. This is the general attitude of the entire administration. If we were to decide here that the next few years will be the care of people with disabilities, that we will approach everyone by equalising our chances, that the state will first take care of them because they have no equal chance, and that this is their basic task, and that on the tail of their needs and priorities they will have consumption, raising bureaucracy, hiring bureaucrats in those resolutions of which there is no benefit and shift, that they will rise to the back of their feet to withdraw as much funding from European funds as possible for social cohesion projects and that we will believe those who are building social capital would then be well. As far as the GLAS and HSU clubs are concerned, we'll support the Attorney General's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51791	Thank you. Representative Lukačić responded for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, I can only say one thing, much agree, but I'm really sorry that when you could, and you were in a position to do something you didn't do anything. I'll just say that for a unique body of art, if you'd put it on its right feet then, we wouldn't have problems like this today, that's the problem. and let us finally acknowledge that the problem lies in the Law on the Single Body of Art and the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which took effect in 2014. There's a real problem here. Today we have to fix it. And you've already had to do some repairs, and we're fixing mistakes today, and I believe we'll correct them in an adequate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51793	The answer to the replica by Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51794	Comrade Lukacic, if you think I'm going to catch up with that grandmother of yours and argue with you about such ground and primitive things as you suggest, I won't. I'll just say that people with disabilities have existed since the human race, not since 2014, and also in Croatia. You know, we're no exception to that. Persons with disabilities have their problems from the moment their disability occurs, not since 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51795	Representative Celic called for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51796	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor. Have you ever heard of the notion of positive discrimination? Did you hear there's a law that defines when there's some work-related injury and there's no work-related injury? I agree with you that whoever is without a leg that needs a prosthetic as well is left without a leg in the war or in peace, I agree with that, but everywhere in the world there is a difference in Croatia and there are certain advantages, they are benefits and they are defence rights. Everyone in Croatian society would be happy if all persons with disabilities had equal rights regardless of how they gained that disability, but unfortunately that is not the case. I would, however, look more at what you mentioned about the disturbances with people from the autistic spectrum, it is scandalous that there is no diagnostic centre in Croatia, there is no. By 1996, Jankomir Psychiatric Hospital, there are now some indications according to the information I received from the Ministry of Health in cooperation with UNICEF from the draft centre in Osijek and then in the other three regional centres of Rijeka, Zagreb and Split, and I think we should speak much more today. So people with autistic spectrum disorders are life-threatening because they're not diagnosed in time, they don't have timely intervention and treatment, and then there's the kerephes as you mentioned. And just for a little while, do not encourage religious intolerance. The story with the City of Angels was the lease of Castle Diosh owned by the Salesians, the Salesians had nothing to do with it, so it had nothing to do with each other. So that's the one association that asked for a lease and then they gave it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51797	The answer to the replica by Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51798	I'm very glad you're familiar with this case as soon as you know it, so I'm sure you'll do something about it as part of the ruling majority to untangle it. As for the first one, you know it's very humiliating when you tell one man that his leg is worth 1,200 kunas that he doesn't have, and the other you say it's worth 3,800, so it's no honor to someone who has earned the status of a Croatian defender with honor. It's the humiliation of this society, it's done the other way. So the disability compensation must not be different, what can be different is the honor society has given to especially worthy citizens who gave for the sake of this country, exposed their lives, their health and everything else they could, some and knowledge. But that's the second pair of sleeves. But if you tell a man who has the same problem that his problem isn't worth so much and that he can't come up with basic living conditions because he wasn't in the war and he wasn't in the war because he's a disabled person. If he wanted to, he couldn't. Then you humiliate him, and that's not a good message. It's not a message from a healthy civil society, it's a message from a society that wants to segregate its citizens, distract them to better manipulate them. If we want to build a fairer society, then we need to understand these basic things, and the other thing is when you can give someone more because they deserve more, and here we're not talking about merits. We're talking about recognition of needs here. And that's all wisdom. Governments have announced that they will create a catalogue of damage to the body, that the whole matter will actually stand up and stop through procedures. No one's done anything, no one's done anything. I am not proud of any minister of social care and health in Croatia since '92. To this day.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51799	Thank you. Representative Glasovac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, you mentioned children with disabilities who are certainly the most vulnerable group when we talk about people with disabilities. There have been some attempts here to politicize this sensitive topic. I don't think he's here, not here, but otherwise it shouldn't be his time or place on such a sensitive subject. I think the fact is that many of the problems facing people with disabilities are especially children with developmental difficulties. The fact is, some of our luck and happiness have moved from a dead end. Here is the fourth year in a row we are working as a state, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, i.e. now only the Ministry of Science and Education with the help of the European Social Fund to provide every child with difficulties in developing assistants in the debate and expert communication mediator, which is actually a great support to every child in the education and education system. It was also known to happen, and I hope that these scenes will be as little as possible to be late with payments to assistants, which raises the question of their existence, i.e. further work. Unfortunately, parents and children with developmental difficulties still have problems at the beginning of the school year and with the provision of transport, because there is a very vague competence actually between the state and the units of local or regional self-government. It's the same thing that we should try to make it right so that it doesn't happen anymore. And the last thing we haven't been able to do in our term, I believe this government will succeed, and that's the abolition of income property censorship for people with disabilities. This is not only in line with the UN Convention's recommendations but would in some way encourage the employment of persons with disabilities if their fee, or disability compensation, would not prevents them from being denied because of another [[/Intruder Petrov: Time is up. Thank you.]] [[Accompanimentary Petrov: Representatives Voter Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51801	Agent Richembergh's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51802	The colleagues of each administration usually say we are really trying within the resources available as if the state budget brings someone else and not this House and does not propose it by the Government. We will see in the next budget how much better this government will be than before, and then we will be able to say whether they really understand how important this is or not. Or it'll turn into one of the governments that haven't done anything dramatically new on this issue. It's great when you introduce a system of personal assistants, but what it's worth to you when you can't get the ones you need. 1153 assistants all over the country. This report says 1153. In any case, there's a lot to be done. Here's me taking this opportunity to call my colleagues who are mayors of rich cities. Let's say Dubrovnik, Poreč, Rovinj. Come on, you guys, set up examples of good practice. You've got plenty of money. You can single out so many funds every year, to show what the environment in which the barriers are being broken down looks like, to establish passageways towards those institutions of people with disabilities should exercise their rights. What it looks like to co-finance personal assistants, raise the quality of education, increase the number of professional associates and assistants in kindergartens, go out to meet parents of persons, parents of children with special needs and difficulties to see. We can make centres of excellence and show that if there is a good will that money can be allocated with less smart or stupid things on such a crucial as equating the chances of people in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51803	Representative Culey has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51804	Your Honor, Vice President. My friend Beus Emir, who you are, Beus Richembergh, you insult my church here a little, you insult the prayeraries. You insult Croatian defenders. What do you want? To create a law on the rights of Croatian defenders by you, so that by you those who have rejected their feet have the same rights with the defenders? Would you like that, or many, if equally meant our enemies who killed and butchered the defenders along with the defenders who wanted the former government through their laws and through the one hundred percent that doesn't have him here to equalize the rights of Croatian defenders. What are you talking about? About what? Do Croatian defenders have to be in your mouth every time? Were you perhaps the Croatian defender? Did you defend this Croatia? Did you fight for her? Stop talking about Croatian defenders. You could have when they were trapped here by Ranko Ostojić at Mark's church, when they were beaten, when they had to make an emergency, when they didn't give them the medication, then you could have called in and supported them, not now. ... He doesn't have to react to me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51805	I believe Agent Culey is finished. The voter's representative, the voter's representative... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51806	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I believe that my colleague Culej has injured Article 232. Here he is not in a position in this kind of situation when we talk about people with disabilities, about protecting, promoting and increasing their rights, to devote at least part of their debate, or replica, to these persons. It's nice to take care of the defenders, but your concern for the defenders, unfortunately, here's what we see by the new bill, it comes down to you giving a hand and a hat, but not your money, but you're transferring your obligations. to units of local self-government who don't know where they're gonna pay for it. [[Employer Petrov: Representatives of the Voter I would only ask that you do not use the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure for your replica.]] They'll probably have to take other people with disabilities, children to give what you imagined and gave. It's easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51807	Representative Voter, so please don't. Thank you. As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and the article you cited, MP Culey referred to the exhibit and mention of the defender at all, so that in that part, if we can look at the widths of keeping the topic, he held the subject, and the way or his thoughts he performed were a reflection of his condition, of his mood and of what Mr. Culey represents. The answer to the replica by Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51808	Comrade Culey, if you're going to impress me with this type of speaking, that reaching tone, asking these famous questions, differentiating you and us, then you're at the wrong address. You know, I've had a lot of bigger sniffs than I've been threatened, so I didn't get scared. And neither will you, and no one else will shut your mouth. And it's not good for one MP to tell each other, you don't have anything to say about it. Well, you have a colleague, Culey, not just what to say, but the right to speak, you're the only one to speak. No matter what you say about the dignity of the Homeland War and the defenders, be assured that this dignity falls, for you cannot defend it. You represent him in the worst possible, not patriotic sense. The one who tells me and you, not the one who tells me. It's to the one who speaks of his country, but to your right to your country. It's like I don't have the right to this same country. Those who think about measuring patriotism in this way, speaking at the moment when we talk about the rights of persons with disabilities, that their feet are not worth the same as the feet of those who lost them in the war. Well, that's terrible. So what are they for you? Are those aggressors the same? Because they weren't at war? Well, they couldn't be in the war, you know, it's not good to share it, and you just keep it up, be sure that the voters, the options you represent, will surely be crowning and turning your back on you. Because they want us to live in a country where everyone is welcome, in which everyone feels their own, in which everyone is invited to build a happier society, not that someone determines the degree of happiness by the degree of your mood because you like or don't like someone's name that you can't even pronounce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51809	Agent Richembergh is out of time. Now there's a break, and we'll continue at 15.00 hours. It's 13,40 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51810	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51811	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Attorney General, with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, it is before us, as we have heard many times today very extensively, specifically, and I would like to say a quality lawyer's report for people with disabilities. In that report, I would say there are indeed good and bad things listed to people with disabilities. All the things that people with disabilities have been complaining about are their problems that they face. If they could have solved the problems themselves, they probably shouldn't have helped the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. It says enough about how much work we have ahead of us, but what I have to say is that in the last few years, however, the standard of disabled people is in a more favourable position than they were before. Realisation of rights may be a few times difficult but we can't say that people with disabilities still live better and better than a few years back. To me from the attorney general's report, when today's lawyer spoke about it in her opening statement, there was one sentence left in the memory that is extremely important, which is that if you accept people with disabilities then disability will no longer be a problem. Well, then it shouldn't be a problem. Everyone who's been working on a disability problem for many years has been repeating the same sentence, and I can say it here today, too. And that's that the barriers in people's heads are still big. And that's the basic problem. Persons with disabilities face major problems both in health care and in social policy, both in professional rehabilitation and employment. However, we moved ahead, and the shifts were still visible. What, when it comes to health care, what is necessary and urgent, and that is accessibility, we have heard about it here today a lot, homes of health, hospitals are not fully adapted for people with disabilities and very little is in the RH of gynaecological tables for women with disabilities. I believe that in the coming time, we will make sure that health homes adapt, that people with disabilities who can really go through this alone and that they don't need anyone's help. When it comes to education, I'd say that's what's important if we keep looking at the employment of people with disabilities. And the lawyer today mentioned that for certain occupations we do not have enough educated people and unfortunately we still educate people with disabilities for some occupations that are not competitive on the labour market. I am sure that there will be major changes in the education system when it comes to people with disabilities, but I must also say that it is extremely necessary for people with disabilities to know what they want and often do not listen to their parents who may direct them in the wrong direction. My parents certainly want the best for their children but I've had the chance to experience it often when a person with disabilities finishes a school and asks for a job and then says, you know, I never would have done it if it wasn't for my parents, I don't care, I would have done anything, give me any other job. That's not good because that's why we get into trouble when it comes to hiring people with disabilities. We talked extensively about hiring people with disabilities the other day in this House when we discussed amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. This law is now changing for the second time since its adoption that it has not been good enough, if it had overlooked important things, I would say, in the case of adoption itself, but I must also say that the law came into force in 2014 with its full application since 1 January 2015, however, it has also brought some good and positive results. I will mention only one thing, and that is quota employment and I would say, although our employers have not overjoyed with quota employment and the compensation they have to pay to the Special Account of the Institute for Arts and Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, unless they meet quota employment. I believe that these amendments and amendments to the law will really allow quality access to the labour market for people with disabilities. A reasonable adjustment is one of the major problems, i.e. because of a lack of reasonable adjustment, many institutions have failed to comply with the legal provision or have not employed a sufficient number of people with disabilities. Now these amendments and additions define the obligation of reasonable adjustment and I believe that it will be easier for all persons with disabilities to meet all the obligations arising from a single competition. Employment of persons with disabilities is extremely important for them and because like all other people, they feel much more useful when they are self - engaged in their lives, then they do not need any social benefits. In doing so, I do not mean the personal disability and the allowance for help and care because I believe that these two benefits used by disabled people are not social benefits. Today there were talks here on an inclusive supplement that I believe will live in the Republic of Croatia or that we will pass an inclusive supplement law in the coming period, but to pass this law is really the most important thing that is ensuring the resources that will be sufficient for an inclusive supplement. For example. The lawyer and I would have the right to an inclusive supplement but not each in the same amount. Thus, the inclusive supplement will certainly also cause disdain among people with disabilities. So I think that by the time we pass the law on an inclusive supplement, we need to strengthen the Institute of Personal Disabilities and compensation for the assistance and care that this Government is doing at the moment. We find the best options to increase the personal disability and extra charge to help the care of another person in order to restore dignity to those with disabilities as promised. Yesterday in this Visko home here I believe we were all happy especially I was particularly proud because the meetings of the Croatian Parliament and also the sessions of the Croatian Government began to translate into sign language for people with disabilities damaged hearing or those used in sign language. And I must tell you that in this break, I have been contacted by several deaf persons and also by the translators who translated the morning part of this session into sign language on Croatian TV on the Fourth Programme and expressed great satisfaction with this shift. Someone will say that it should have been before, yes, I agree, but I am happy that here we have now done so that deaf persons could equally participate in the political public life of the Republic of Croatia. I believe the problem of a disabled person is equally important to everyone. Equally important to those who are in power and those who are opposition and defenders and persons with disabilities. We all need to do a lot together because there are a lot more problems to bring the right person with disabilities to one level that requires of us the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Croatia has already heard here many times, the third country in the world to sign the convention, the fourth one to ratify it and since we have a convention, the status of persons with disabilities is nevertheless at a more favourable level. When I said that I believed that this problem was equally important to all of us, I thought about it, and I believe that something that happened yesterday in this Croatian Assembly will never happen again. And that's when we voted on the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which is in the first reading, so there's still room for its improvement, 7 votes against, 8 abstentions. My question is why, anyway, I don't know if I should ask that question at all, but I simply don't understand how someone can vote against a law like this that only improves the provisions of the laws that have been in force so far. I think this report, as I've already said, extensively, quality and that we're all going to be pulling out the most important data we're going to need when we're talking about the problem of people with disabilities, since our attorney really prepared it. The HDZ Club will support the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51812	I thank my colleague Ljubica Lukacic for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, I agree when you say the barriers are in your mind, but the barrier isn't just in your mind. We need to work very hard on this and raise awareness of our fellow citizens and the public about the problems that people with disabilities face daily, some of them are insurmountable to them. I know from my own experience. I have people with disabilities in my family, and I know that the whole system is somehow designed to discourage them. First through education, many don't finish elementary school, let alone high school. Many are not socialized enough, and then when they are employed. I think hiring is another very big problem. And why is that? We have laws that encourage the employment of people with disabilities. They have the advantage of people with disabilities, especially those who are experts in the field they appear to be. But I ask you a rhetorical question, how will we expect our employers to comply with the laws if our state institutions do not respect them? Do you know how many disabled persons work in the Croatian Assembly? I don't know any. I asked a few questions three years ago about a blind person, I think she retired, and I don't think there's a single person with disabilities working in the Croatian Parliament anymore. It's kind of amazing that none of them answered any of the competitions that the Croatian Parliament called. Here's just a review of what's going on. I'm afraid everywhere. So, we as a state must first of all start to respect our own laws, raise awareness and employers, as well as people who are at the head of our state institutions, why it is necessary to hire a person with disabilities, you know, you mentioned it in your speech, then the person feels fulfilled, has the feeling that it contributes to the community, contributes, works, is occupied and earning my bread. Lives like a person who... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51814	I thank you for the replica of my colleague Hajdukovic. Answer from a colleague named Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51815	Thank you very much. Well, a colleague is very short in one sentence. When it came to barriers in the heads, I thought about it, i.e. I must say that they exist, because if they didn't exist, we would certainly, faster, easier and easier to solve the problem of people with disabilities. I'm not going to spread and say who has them, who doesn't have them, however, I'm just going to express my satisfaction, which right now, thank God we have a man at the head of the government with whom we can unearth and who doesn't have these barriers in their heads. Because when it comes to employment, when it comes to education, when it comes to social care, it is understood in every area, and I believe that we will also destroy all other barriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51816	I thank my colleague Lukacic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51817	Dear colleagues, I commend you, what you said in the report, and it concerns 2017 after the report, which is that there are positive developments in society after all. If this report wasn't a report from a round world in which it spread to 2017, I think from your presentation, it seems to me that this insistence on education is the most important thing. Because education also enables the visibility of the problem, as well as the visibility of the ability of members of our social community, who, if they choose the direction of their own education, the most family and society, will indeed be visible in that individuality and will also be recognised in the field of social solidarity as well as in the field of work and work processes. This is very commendable to me, that I could draw from your presentation the conclusion that the goal of the state should not be just one, which is economic growth, but that it is the goal of the state and economic growth, but also the achievement of many other objectives, including social justice. So if economic growth is going to be slower for us because we are focused on these goals of achieving the humanity of social justice, I am very happy to agree to decide on slower economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51818	I would like to thank my colleague, Vučetić. Answer from a colleague named Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51819	Thank you very much. A colleague that, in my opinion, education is something that is most important for all people and then especially for people with disabilities, because from the lawyer's report, it is evident that people with disabilities are educated for especially women with disabilities educated for less-paid occupations. So for a long time now, I have been saying that people with disabilities themselves should be persistent, they should want to and should take care of their education because if they do so, then they will succeed. As far as the country's objective is concerned, and when it comes to persons with disabilities in one way or another, the objective of each country should be to equalise opportunities for persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51820	I thank my colleague Lukacic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ljubica Maksichuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51821	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lukacic. I agree with your full discussion, and today we all look back on hiring people with disabilities. This report says that 5% of people with disabilities in the working age are self-employed. If we know that any and the least gain of any income is lost a personal disability means that it is something that makes this problem even more difficult than we already have. But the new Social Welfare Act, which is currently under public debate, I think this problem could improve or go to the realization of all this. However, I must also commend some good examples here, and I will commend the example from my county of the Multiplesclerosis Society, which 42 currently has persons with disabilities, of which 18 in a permanent working relationship. They set up a non-profit radio, Radio 92 is the only one in the EU that they have managed to establish through European funds, as well as an Inclusive Support Centre that has made one package where people with disabilities are employed and an example of Vukovar Bubamare, here in one of our poor Slavonia we have some positive examples. And I have to look back at the health care of women with disabilities, which is what you mentioned, and last year you participated and discussed it. I think we should all work together to make this health care, at least it improves and repairs so that women with disabilities can have the right and we have to afford them this serious health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51822	I thank my colleague Maximchuk for the replica. Answer from a colleague named Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51823	Thank you very much. My colleagues, thank you for mentioning a number of positive examples. When it comes to personal disability, you have said well in these moments in the procedure are amendments and additions to the Social Care Act which will allow a person with disabilities to retain a personal disability and if employed. As for detailed solutions when it comes to the rights of persons with disabilities, which stem from the Social Care Act, I have to say that in the beginning of next year, the Social Care Act is going completely new and that then we will put people with disabilities in that law into one, I would say, a normal, civilizational level. In these changes, there is another very, very important thing, and it is the status of a nurse who is spreading to and from mates, therefore not only to parents. When you mentioned Bubamaru, of course everyone probably knows about Bubamaru, it is clearly a bright example of an association that employs people with Down syndrome and here's another thank you for all the other examples of lights that prove that here and not everything is so black. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51824	I thank my colleague Lukacic for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51825	Dear colleagues. Well, in a way, you also called the SDP Representatives Club because of the way he voted on the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, and the first one, according to our Constitution, cannot be held accountable for how he voted in the Parliament or how he did not vote if he did not want to vote. And we voted against the fact that the law in the first reading is bad, so if the government corrects it until the second reading we will be very easy and happy to vote for such a law. But we think that as it is written, it contains nothing that would help, improve the positions of people with disabilities. In fact, we believe that he favors employers more than people with disabilities. And those were our objections and those were our reasons. It's shrinking, for example. The censorship for setting up protection workshops which we consider to be bad, but it's like when we discuss both this report today and when we object and when we say it's not very fair and it's not fair that people with disabilities are treated differently given the cause of disability, and then you object to us, you're talking against the defender. We are not talking against the defenders, we are talking against inequality and we are not talking here in this law because we are against improving the position of persons with disabilities rather than because we are about it to be just like that, to make it better and that the law that talks about it is written better than it is written in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51826	I would like to thank my colleague Stazic for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51827	I am very sorry that you do not understand the improvement in the law we were talking about. Of course he improves the status of people with disabilities when it comes to employment. If you think a reasonable adjustment isn't an improvement, then I don't know what we have to talk about. I am truly sorry for the law that was passed in 2013 and it entered into force in 2014. it did not have those provisions. But imagine what else he didn't have. He didn't give the Bureau of Arts the opportunity to determine disability. You know what that means? That's why we're here today and we need to fix it, so if you don't understand what we're fixing, I don't intend to convince you that it's better or not. I believe that in the second reading, you will read the law a little bit better and more concrete and more carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51828	I thank my colleague Lukacic for his reply. Your Honor, Attorney General Ms. Anka Slonjšak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51829	Thank you. Well, I'd just like to comment on employment and work as an area. I mean, this area is the crown of all of us, and we all strive to get a job, to have our own resources to live on, our pay, and actually to be taken care of economically. However, I would like to say that what Mrs Lukacic pointed out in our report and we keep repeating is actually a question of raising and education and actually following the child ever since he started kindergarten through elementary school, high school and later if he has opportunities and remaining abilities to get involved in higher education. What we're always saying is that we're missing actually that tracking, that directing. Because once a child is misdirected, a certain profession can be closed to him tomorrow for further education and later to enter the labour market. I think it's missing, that even when a child recognizes, or later a young person recognizes his remaining abilities, what he must have as such must have a tracking team, a team that will track him, that will direct him to what he has talent, into what he has skills and actually what he wants to study. Because we have situations today that we have people with disabilities who study, who at later years discover that it may not be a college or university, etc. means the educational study they were supposed to choose. But as you tell them, look, you've chosen wrongly, your abilities remain not such capacity, such strength, such opportunities that tomorrow you'll be able to complete it and engage in the labour market. Why am I saying that? When one person is healthy and has no problems as a disabled person, it will easily shift from one profession to another, from one profession to another. But one person with disabilities when he's finished tomorrow or can't finish a certain college, in which way she'll switch from one job to another, and it's known how hard it is to get involved in the world of work at all. So it is very important that the child’s follow - up, that is, when a person gets hurt or causes a disease, that it is actually requalified and that schools are exactly what allows it to have its remaining abilities. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51830	I thank the Attorney General, Mrs. Anki Slonjšak, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Prof. Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Attorney General, the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report from the D.A.'s office for people with disabilities for 2016, so something that happened here almost a year ago and ours is to give an opinion on it. The Croatian Democratic Party's club of HSLS and HDSSB at the very beginning, I say it will support this report and that it will, because it considers it positive. However, there is one more thing I need to say that makes me think of him as positive and good? In fact, the problem of a person with disabilities is a problem that surpasses only one area of human life and thus becomes a much more complex problem than some other spheres discussed in this House. When I get this report that seems to me on page 35 and it's complicated in the way it's complicated, then it's obvious that there's serious work behind it, serious thinking and commitment to this work. This report and this situation in this area of disability and protection of persons with disabilities be not only in this House, but also in the Croatian state of hope that we have lost in many spheres, be the optimism we have long forgotten, be the joy of, and especially because it comes from people who have serious problems and who have not fought, they would not have fought alone if it hadn't been for that part of positive thinking and positive energy that can be found in the overall Croatian society. And because of this, if there is a reason for contentment in the House that is burdened with negativeness, by asking the negative to improve it, then there should be measures and not looking at at all costs at least in such situations something that might question the excellent work of the attorney and her team and excellent solutions as great as they can be in the time and space in which we live, we work and in which society is otherwise. For that reason, Madam Attorney, let me not only tell you that we will support this report but I congratulate you on this watch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51832	I thank Professor Dodig. Continuing the debate, dear colleague, Mr Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51833	Here's a thank you very much for this opening work of my colleague Dodig. Today, this report is before us, and often a large part of the report speaks about raising and educating children with disabilities. Today is the World Teacher's Day, and then here's the opportunity to congratulate all the teaching of the Republic of Croatia on their day. And from today's debate on this day we send a message that there is much more to be done in this particular work to address these first issues that come first those major obstacles that parents and children with disabilities face when they move into the education system. The report here has often been stressed by the Ombudsman that there is still no systematic problem-solving. And that's, in any case, something that might be the biggest problem. Let's go back a little bit, a few years, ten years, and remember what the reports were then, how many opinions, requests and recommendations to the ministries, according to the government, according to local self-government, and let's look at it today. No matter how far we're from what we'd like to achieve to make life easier, everyday for people with disabilities, we as a state have made very, very progress, in all segments. But, of course, the Ombudsman as a person who follows exactly the problems with which people with disabilities meet, every year in each of her reports has the task and obligation to impose even more on and to give tasks and resolutional ministries and to all those working in Croatian society in order to improve the lives of people with disabilities. And by accepting such a report by the Croatian Parliament, in the end we accepted all those opinions given by the Ombudsman and thus tasked all those mentioned in this opinion that they were obliged to make further efforts to improve the situation further. That's why it's important to accept a report like this. I'm going to focus a little on this part of the problem with the education system for children with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties. Here's talk about assistants in the class, let's remember a few years ago when it started what it looked like, today it already has its own framework, today it's moving on time, today on the first day of school children have their assistants in class. It took two, three years for the system to accept that model and it would bring it back to life, but it's still not enough. Again, we have a slight discrimination in the Republic of Croatia. Discrimination because it cannot simply allow all environments to be automatically and to all persons with disabilities equal living conditions. Of course bigger cities, type of Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, and some other cities have much greater opportunities for improved standards of life for people with disabilities. Other smaller cities, not to speak to the municipalities, are absolutely significantly, significantly more difficult to them. And that's where those rural areas of the Republic of Croatia are suffering. What do you do to make it better? Here I am going to make some suggestions and some ideas and also hand over the document to one of our attorneys that perhaps in some time that she has brought together something new before us and that she is even more concerned about people with disabilities in this case, therefore, about children with disabilities. We have made one document, when I am speaking, it is about the Center for Education, Education and Rehabilitation of the Križevci, which is also proposed to the town of Križevci and the Resord Ministry, there is a need for cooperation between two ministries and this area, but also the Ministry of Education, to solve the problem systematically in the great part of Croatia with professional help of children with disabilities in primary education and preschool education. We propose a pilot project called the Support Centre that would provide services to all schools and kindergartens in a particular area, in particular, in the area of the town of Križevci and around a dozen local self-governments. This would significantly reduce costs, reduce the number of assistants in the follow-up, but get more quality and professional help from the very beginning when children enter practically that life than preschool education and beyond. What am I talking about? Today in schools we have psychologists, logos, defecologists, social workers and each school may have one or two, so I'm only talking about smaller environments, I'm not talking about the town of Zagreb, the big cities that have these systems complex, I'm talking about smaller schools in smaller environments, no one has solved human beings with professional staff all segments that are needed. In this way, a mobile team can be created which then cooperates with all these people, professional associates in each individual school and kindergarten, and all together in principle do complete observation from the beginning to the end, mobilely participate in monitoring the development of the child in order to include the child in the regular education system, so that only those children who cannot be in the regular education system can go to the centres. This would reduce these costs significantly, strengthen the system that takes care of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities about children, imagine how helpful it would be for the parents of those children. So I'm going to leave this proposal to the D.A., and I'm asking you to study it, and if you like, give us suggestions that you might still need. We also sent it to the Ministry of Education, we got a kind of green light, and we're told you can start this process with local self-government providing funds for people who are going to work. Okay, and it can sort of pass as a pilot project, but it's still not that part of the system solution then some local self-government will do it again, some won't do it, and we'll get to that disproportionate again. But it's got to start somewhere, and that's how it started with the assistants in class. Here I have to express myself here in some way my pride that the Association of Persons with Disabilities Križevci was among the first associations to participate in the project and we had already there in 2010 it seems to me that the first assistants in continuing through one project as an association are doing so today local self-government. Maybe from a small town like this, a small project like this, a small center for education and rehabilitation starts a good story, maybe we adopt a project, a model that will later revive and that will be available to our children in the Republic of Croatia. The model is elaborated and financially, we have an analysis of how much the cost of the assistants in the follow-up would be, how much would it cost, so it's all complicated and elaborate and I want to discuss this prosecutor's report for people with disabilities to participate in the name of our club exactly in a way that we offer some improvements and some solutions. At the very least, such discussions should be aimed at offering some new solutions and improvements in order to reduce the part of the Ombudsman's negative opinions and demand that something be done and that something must be resolved per year. Your Honorary Attorney, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to hand over these two papers, ask you to study them a little bit, and then we'll hear from each other afterwards, and see if there's anything like this that could bring them back to life in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51834	I thank Mr. Brank Hrg for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51835	I would ask a question to my colleague Dodig, I know that he now spoke in a political role as a parliamentary representative, but I can't resist, not asking for that pre-political role as a psychiatrist to look at and look at a problem that still stems from the report. It is positive that you pointed out that this report in some segments raises hope, optimism and satisfaction, but if we focus in the report on people with disabilities precisely because of their disability, because of the permanent nature of violence, then there is also a need to show concern because it is necessary to ask a question, which is what individuals, and in part institutions also encourages that in some elements, some social context, or in the face of a person with disabilities, a situation is interpreted as calling for violence. For example, there is a chapter of freedom from exploitation, violence and abuse in this report and it is evident that, in addition to associations and civil life organisations, violence victims do not get enough information from all institutions in favour of protection and support. Furthermore, there is also violence over prejudice, that persons with disabilities are exposed to violence and other criminal acts, and that, for example, when police officers do not indicate that the act is a person with disabilities, it would be a difficult circumstance, therefore, hopes and optimism exist and many areas in which it is necessary to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51836	I would like to thank my colleague, Vučetić. My colleague Dodig's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51837	Dear colleague Vučetić. I said that today we are assessing a report that is comprehensive, that doesn't mean that the condition is connected to people with disabilities ideally, but I'm saying that the report is very good. That's what it's all about, and if there's room for repairs, a condition, a person with disabilities, there's no doubt about it, finally. Because in many European countries, more developed than we are, because the situation is worse than ours. You've replaced the thesis here. The D.A. pointed out, you know what you're saying, you know from the report, so she wasn't under political influence, writing something that someone wouldn't like. It's just that her courage to say something that isn't worth it makes this report valuable. Discussing the condition of people with disabilities and what can be fixed. I absolutely propose thematic sessions and committees and parliaments, to this issue. But we're assessing the report here. And I say this report is extraordinary. And what there are elements in it that point to serious problems, is the value of this report. Yesterday, there was a speech that some parliamentary deputies voted against the law on employment of persons with disabilities because several proposals had not been adopted that they had made. And that's how you question the whole law, that's nonsense, that's what I'm talking about, that's what I'm talking about. So we are influenced by negative relations to the problem, exclusively negative, able to question everything. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51838	I thank Professor Dodig for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Dodig, to start at the end, is first about the Law on Professional Rehabilitation, not about hiring people with disabilities, but well, it's just about information. So, first of all, I don't know what report you've been reading, colleague Dodig, because as far as I know, the D.A.'s report for people with disabilities has 362 pages, not 35 or what you said. That's the short cut. Perhaps you should have read these more extensively, not so much of an optimist. I wouldn't say we insist on negativity, though. This debate is always good and I always say that the report of our attorneys, good... to debate the general state of society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since we have a specialised lawyer for people with disabilities, then about their position in society, and unfortunately, I don't share your opinion that the situation is great and wonderful. We may have good laws, but we don't enforce colleagues. And that's the problem with that is the point. We're not spending enough. The state administration doesn't carry them out. I asked my colleague here and she couldn't answer how many people with disabilities were employed in the Croatian Parliament. As far as I know, with the letter and the numbers of zero. Then let's just get on with it. Here, I can give you one concrete suggestion. They say the premiere, the finance minister says, that we're growing, that it's great that GDP is increasing, budget revenues are great, we're acting like a drunk rich man with budget money, we're buying billions of kuna fighter planes, so let's increase the amount of personal disability, aid and care benefits, other social benefits, which haven't increased in 10 years. Don't you think it's a very simple and quick solution to the standard of disabled people, to their dignity and better life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51840	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for his reply. Here you go, Comrade Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51841	Comrade Hajdukovic, your need to deal with the politics of the Croatian government and the diameter, I do not think it is correct to lead through the Ombudsman for people with disabilities and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51842	I thank you for your response to my colleague, Dodig. Next replica of respected colleagues Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51843	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Dodig, here I must say that we are extremely glad that you spoke positively and affirmably of this report and who made it. Of course, that's a lot to say about our lawyer who's the single person with the hardest kind, I'd say disability. It also confirms what I said earlier and in some replicas and in my discussion of barriers to the head. You know, when we named the Attorney General to this High House in 2008, a lot of people were saying what you did, so do you think she'll be able to do something about it? These are the barriers to the heads, which I do not know today, again, which times I express my satisfaction, that the attorney herself has knocked them down and proved that people with disabilities do very well and quality work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51844	I thank my colleague Lukacic for this replica. We move on to the following replicas, respected colleague Branko Hrg, respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51845	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you said colleague Hrg that basically each of us should contribute to improving the lives and work of people with disabilities, and for that very reason I would also suggest how to make this system even better and more humane and nobler. Namely, when talking about hiring people with disabilities, a requirement is prescribed for each institution of units of local self-government who employs more than 20 employees, to hire a minimum of 1 person with disabilities or otherwise to pay a non-employment fee. I don't think it's intended to raise as much resources as possible on this basis, but as many people as possible to hire. If we see that only 2853 people are employed in 2016, and we have 250 thousand people with disabilities in their working age, we cannot be satisfied. The town of Vodice case is such that we have hired more people with disabilities in the city administration than the law requires, I would say two times and a lot earlier than the law predicted. However, when this legal provision came out, our kindergarten numbering more than 20 employees had the same obligation. In addition to the fact that the collective had already filled all the jobs, it was impossible for us to get or hire a person with disabilities to the place of neither nurse nor cleaning lady, cooker, even less aunts in kindergarten. And in some ways we've been in violation, or should be paying a cash fee for not hiring people with disabilities. So here's my suggestion, a suggestion that it might be considered in a way that the local self-government unit in all its institutions or within the city administration has a certain number to satisfy whether it's going to be in the city hall or in the city administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51846	I would like to thank my colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Comrade Hrg's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51847	And we understand each other well in that part and of course this is all you said everyone would have to support who even knows a little bit of that system. And this is the problem that we face in the Croatian state all the time, where we are facing two laws or more laws. By one law, you do something good, and by some other law on the same thing, you can get some negative opinions and even more. But in any case, I think that just by changing the law, just one look at the overall situation, you can do something in that direction and that here, just as counterpart Hajdukovic had spoken earlier, should be moved really from the institutions, here from this institution, the institution of the Croatian Parliament, the government, the county, the cities, the municipalities and literally go in that direction not to talk to people with disabilities only when the Attorney General's Report is, but to act practically on the ground. And anyway, it's something that could be done, which has to be done at the very least. I think that this new Law on the financing of local self-government that comes soon before the Croatian Parliament with these increased decentralised announced funds according to local self-government would allow something like this and should absolutely see how this is settled, to really make such a big move, one such a big step, so that a year of counsel can write in that section that such a big step has just been made. And also after that it also goes to entrepreneurs with one such activity that would sensitize and more that it is much easier for them not to pay the fines than maybe to make agreements with persons with disabilities or some such institutions and thus to be actively involved in the employment of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51848	I thank Mr. Horg for his reply. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51849	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Hrg, I am particularly pleased that you have tried to help with your proposal to help with the education of children with developmental difficulties, since I know that the town of Križevci is indeed one environment that makes it the most possible for children with developmental difficulties, as well as for people with disabilities. If really what you were talking about, some things were done, maybe we shouldn't have assistants in class to every kid. I primarily mean here a reasonable adjustment that is extremely important both at school and at work and anywhere. So, if schools were more adapted, not all kids would need an assistant in class. Your city and my city have shown and shown that this can be done since school adjustment, so a bright example of how children with developmental difficulties can attend regular education. This is what every local community must do to its kindergartens and schools to adapt to children with developmental difficulties and then to jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51850	I thank my colleague Lukacic for the replica. Comrade Hrg's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51851	Here is a colleague of Lukačić you know that we are well followed by our members of the Association of Persons with Disabilities with whom we regularly cooperate and who we are at hand. So this isn't a new idea. This is an idea that's been developed for two years, we've been preparing it for a long time. I already talked about this project here in the Croatian Parliament. I'm not giving up because I like it very much, and I think it can be very functional and effective, and I'm taking the opportunity to actually do it at exactly the time when I'm talking about the people that this applies to, it means children with disabilities. It's definitely done a lot not just in the Crosses. It was made in these tens, fifteen years in many cities in the Republic of Croatia very much. And I think there's hardly a local self-government leader who doesn't have one such special sensitivity to people with disabilities especially where people organized themselves, joined associations, started activities with so much energy that a simple person who maybe doesn't have some disability can't even imagine what these people can do, means people with disabilities. And it's actually a message to what I was saying, that it's worth hiring, to give them an opportunity because on some examples in the Republic of Croatia it's visible how many projects they've done, how many projects they've designed, how much money they've pulled, how much they've advocated, how brave they're in that performance they're going to be, that's something that's very, very important. So the extraordinary courage shown here is that employers can trust people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51852	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51853	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. An esteemed colleague, Hrg. A significant part of your discussion referred to assistants in teaching and assistance in the education system of children with developmental difficulties. I have already pointed out in the replica how important professional selection is and the correct criteria for selecting associations that appear in the Ministry of Science and Education's competition and the European Social Fund, but it is important to stress that there is also a need to distinguish assistants who help children with development difficulties in that technical and physical sense from assistants who help children in their mental development and in the context of educational progress and learning proposal. Unfortunately, you mentioned rural areas that remained severed for such professionals, for people who could help in the education system, I would mention our islands here. In particular, I know of an example in my county where a child in elementary school is at home, is not included in teaching, but we are entering a zone in which we are breaking the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because every child must be involved in the educational process because the entire island cannot be found by a person who could be able to monitor this child with greater developmental difficulties in the educational system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51854	I thank my colleague Putica on the line. My colleague Hrg's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51855	Thank you very much for this replica so that maybe once again some things can be repeated and that I can actually say that you are confirming what I have cited as this example because precisely if such mobile professional teams are created, if they are allowed to come to certain schools on a particular field on the islands in rural areas, wherever we are then allowing our children in the Republic of Croatia to have approximately the same care, approximately because it will not be the same, it is normal, it can't be everywhere. Assistants, teaching assistants come today practically through projects and programs made by local self-government founding schools and that's very good. That's why I said in my debate that today this system solves and that today it has its own framework. A few years ago, associations also appeared, and today associations also appear with these programmes or other associations. We even have some double systems, but that's why it's being arranged on the ground, so that some of them cover one piece, so what's not covered, and the other part of the institutions will cover it, and that's how it should go. But I say until this problem is resolved systematically until then, this problem on the island with the child will not be solved. It is therefore important to put more things into the system, law them and make the rules needed and therefore to make sure that the minimum standard can be satisfied in every part of Croatia, whether in rural, whether in any city centre, whether on an island anywhere else. Everyone has a right and everyone must have the right to meet their minimum needs of living standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51856	I would like to thank my colleague Hrgo for his reply. The Honorable Attorney for Persons with Disabilities, Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51857	Thank you. So here I'd just like to be attached to the assistant in the follow-up, and I'd like to explain that we're always going back to the assistants in the class, the assistants in the follow-up, but I have to point out that they're not the only kind of support for children with disabilities in education, they're just one of the forms of support that we've been very focused on. I have to say that until recently many children with disabilities have had peer assistance, there are different forms of consequences of individuality or disability as such, and some children should not have as many assistants as they may have, and on the other hand, we know that there are some other types of support that are necessary, from some children not having adequate help, that there are assysticistic technologies, that there are different forms of other forms of support that are necessary for the child to have exactly the inclusive education that we seek. In that segment I would like to emphasise the necessary and what I said at the beginning and at this point one of the same significant problems, it is a matter of transport. In many areas around Croatia, parents do not have the opportunity to take the child to school, regardless of what we are talking about whether it is kindergarten or elementary school or high school. Especially here, I highlight high school education as the weakest link in our education system from different aspects. But I wouldn't open the subject again, I think we're in the report and in the years in the reports we're constantly supporting these facts. As far as employment is concerned, I would like to say that we are certainly interested in hiring persons with disabilities in the open labour market, but the reasons why they are making it difficult at this point are different in different segments, and certainly education and education is one of the biggest reasons why they are under-employed. But I have to say that when we re-examined and gave the data in the report for local and regional self-government units, I don't think there's a will that makes it difficult for the job environment, and it's from the fact that it's going to be extremely extreme, or I'm going to hire or I'm going to pay a cash fee, so there's a calculation of what's cheaper. But we also have substitute quotas, we have the possibility of encouraging scholarship students, including children who are in high schools to come to practice. It means possibilities for additional, etc. other contracts of conclusion and the like, in order to actually encourage, education additional retraining and employment, and not just employment or payment of cash compensation. As far as employers are concerned, we will probably talk more about it for 2017, but since 2016 we have started one collaboration in collaboration with HGK, education and actually encouraging opportunities for employers in all counties to get an opportunity to say what it is that prevents the employment of people with disabilities, what they see as a problem, and in what way, in fact, that they can "breathing" and say ok, we cannot deal with these etc. So here we have seen some additional reasons that are somehow justified by the employer how to hire a person with disabilities. We have a situation in many counties, that we do not have at the Croatian Employment Service an educational profile that some employers are looking for. And in that segment, we have an extremely big problem, and that's what I'm saying again, we're going back to the source of the problem of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51858	I'd like to thank Attorney-General Anki Slošnjak. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51859	Thank you. First of all, Mrs. Slošnjak, here I am. I wanted to briefly look back on this problem of relationships with students with disabilities and generally towards people with disabilities. And somehow when I looked at your report, which I naturally commend, I was interested in the educational system, so by verticals, from preschool education, to a higher education system, where it really brings out its problems clearly and corely, from the problems of accessing children with preschool difficulties, difficulties in carrying out inclusive education, about primary school problems of teaching assistants, peer violence, as well as violence of parents. In high school, insufficient education of teachers for working with students and disability and developmental difficulties, then higher education, under-representation of students with disabilities in the overall student population. So these are all situations and problems that mirrored in one way or another, in general the situation in Croatian society when we talk about a relationship with people with disabilities. And of course we have positive examples in all of this, which is good and what is encouraging, and that is a sign that our country is moving forward. But somehow when I look at it from above, I see two extremes. We're prone to extremes. On the one hand, the stigmatization of people with disabilities, the question of whether they are really capable. And on the other hand, some good examples that are often controversial but sometimes border on what we call protection and exaggeration. I think that Croatia must seek the environment in a way that ensures all conditions under the law, so law enforcement, first of all, in order to ensure the integrity of people with disabilities. That, as a person with integrity, with all possible conditions, they develop and exercise their right to self-account, and in order to achieve this, of course, we must all work together primarily at the level of consciousness and then on the system of accessing this problem in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51860	I thank my colleague Bedekovic. The answer of the esteemed attorney. No, thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51861	Thank you very much. But in order to avoid confusion, therefore, the assistants in the course are a program that is extremely good, for several reasons and would not want to get the impression that I wish there were no assistants in the class. This proposal that's given is actually an upgrade. It means that the work and education of these assistants in the teaching process, which was recently said, were made possible by these assistants in the follow-up, to be upgraded to further education and to go in that direction, which is more needed by the child. So these mobile teams, this center, the support, actually has this role to play, to educate and professionally train and assistants in teaching. So, continuing assistants, absolutely one of the better projects that happened in Croatia regarding persons with disabilities and the employment of people at the very end of the day, and helping people with disabilities in everyday life. And as for hiring people with disabilities, so definitely, in today's time when employers are struggling with every minute, with every kuna, every lip in their desire to earn, it's very hard to break those barriers and they're going to have to work a lot and very much to prove. And on just like this, when people with disabilities start some entrepreneurial projects, let's say these integrated workshops, which will be made possible by this new law, are certainly one of the good examples of how employment opportunities for people with disabilities will be highlighted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51862	I thank my colleagues, Hrga. The reply to the replica is the esteemed attorney of Anka Slošnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51863	So here I would just like to say, that recently we had a meeting that is quite alarming and that shows really the problem that we all need to look at, which is that in our current working system and the people who are currently employed, we have an extremely large number of people who are in pain, we have an extremely large number of people with various physical damages, who, according to our own qualifications, are not included in this eyewitness that we're talking about, and as such many employers don't meet that quota, and they have people with physical damages different, I say difficult circumstances, which is why many people even hide that damage, so that their employer doesn't give them cancellation or that they don't detimize them in any way. What's the problem, and we haven't opened up here, is also a question of requalification, a question of professional rehabilitation. Because we actually have an extremely large number of potential people with disabilities who at this time or in the system are employed or are on sick leave. And in fact, no one is thinking about what's going to happen to such people tomorrow and where the work and employment system is actually going to the Republic of Croatia, and we know it's a very, very large number of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51864	I thank you for your response to the esteemed attorney, Anki Slonjšak. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51865	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'll start with the praises of the report. So this is like I mentioned more, I think it's my seventh or eighth report. The methodological good is done, worked out, and I want to repeat to the D.A. I'm not counting on anyone through you. All I want through you and your report is to deal with system failures no matter who's in power, so let's remove some political innuendo immediately. But what I have to do again and I am saddened by the fact that we are actually facing a set of the same problems from the report. And yes, there is progress in certain segments, but I cannot agree with the assessment that this is the progress that we can be satisfied with and that we should sleep peacefully. No, you need to go much faster, you need to go much more decisive. I've had my chance to talk several times about some specific issues with the attorney general who sometimes I understand it there in the fight with the windmills. I absolutely welcome all initiatives aimed at improving the quality of life of people with disabilities here's what Mr. Hrg said and I'm glad he wants to know about it. But first of all, we need to get to know our ministry, our executive power. They need to enforce the law. The lawyer is to defend the rights of persons with disabilities, to indicate a violation of their rights, i.e. the failures that appear to be in the implementation of these laws. And I'm glad to hear that we've heard, we've had the opportunity to hear from our colleagues that the Ministry has given the principle consent, so with this pilot project, even if it's financed firsthand by the local self-government unit. I have pointed out here several times when we are discussing the problem of persons with disabilities, here we are not just talking about the protection of human rights, here we are talking about the dignity of every man, the right of every man to his personal dignity and the dignity to live a quality life, filled with life, to contribute to the community, to education and to be a productive member of his community. And I'm afraid many examples suggest that this is not the case. I especially stress here, maybe I'm sensitive because I'm from that profession, but I especially warn children with developmental difficulties and children with disabilities. So, I think they're breaking their rights roughly, I don't think we're doing enough and the system isn't taking care of the kids enough. And you know for yourself that in formative years, in years when it matters from both health and mental point of view. If we do our job well then, these children will live a much better and better life. I'll tell you the examples of what I mean when I say the system fails, I'll tell you what it really looks like. In a school where I worked I had opportunities, I didn't teach that class, but as a teacher, part of the school collective I could see it we had a boy with disabilities, a boy who was completely integrated into his class, who was accepted, a fully accepted member of his class community with a heavy disability, with a very damaged motorbike, in a wheelchair. And you know what was going on? His classmates and classmates were struggling to help Antony, who would push the cart, who would help him with his homework, who would prepare his books. That boy had a much, much better, much better life than going to a special school, going to school at home or something. When he could not come to school for health reasons, his peers also struggled over who would take his assignments. Isn't that an example of a well-integrated child with disabilities in his peer community? It's the quality of life I'm talking about, so it doesn't turn out to be just bad things this is a good example. But also this little boy had to have very good and sacrificial parents who were ready to drive him to school every day, come and get him, take care of him. So he demanded a lot more attention than a child without disability. The system doesn't do enough to help children with severe damage, especially from a health point of view. If they get the care they need at an early age, they have much greater prospects for a more fulfilling and productive life. I also know firsthand the case of a white hill boy in Erdut municipality, so it's a settlement between Osijek and Erdut on that direction, a boy whose grandparents refused to give up on him. He's very difficult to move. Now it shows some signs of mobility, but his parents themselves financed his treatment, singled out thousands and thousands of euros themselves so that the boy could go on certain procedures outside the Republic of Croatia, so that he could stand on his feet at the end of the day by sticking to the wall. The system was too small. If they were just relying on the system, I'm afraid that boy would live a very, very unquality life, so he'd never get out of a wheelchair to stay trapped in his home. They were helped by associations, helped by enthusiastic parents, local self - government, friends. But if it wasn't for them, if only the system was supposed to take care of that boy, I'd say we'd be telling a completely different story. I have an example from my family. My cousin is a difficult mobile person. Because of the health condition, there was a forecast that he would remain immobilized probably his whole life. His mother wouldn't give up. He was lucky that his mother was also a doctor and fought like a lioness, practiced with him, went to treatments, sought alternative solutions, medicine etc., etc. Thank God he had a mother like that. Because my cousin today is my associate, an expert historian, is a person who is still difficult to move but is mobile, who lives alone, unfortunately his employment hasn't been solved, reporting for competitions in some state institutions, he didn't get a job. But I want to tell you, and if his mother had relied only on the system unfortunately, the result would also be that his fate would look completely different. Unfortunately for him, but also for the accident of the society we live in. Because I'm going to tell you that my cousin is an extremely intelligent person, a funny person I like to spend time with. And the reason he's so extroverted, which is why he's not afraid of interacting with the outside world, let's call it so conditional because he's completely socialized. He went to school, to my elementary school, we're not the same generation, he's younger, so all the time he's been completely socialized, he went to college, he's had the opportunity to thank God, and he can be a productive member of society, I believe he will be. Here are some examples that have one common denominator, and you know what that is? That these children had parents, grandparents, the closest they ever gave up. And what about those who are unsettled children? Who are in dysfunctional families? Who come from single parents who may not always be able to take care of them as they would like, and that system, colleagues, and colleagues, fails. And there's the role of our defense attorney to tell us where this system is scheduled. Which regulations do not apply, or laws. How to improve something. Well, you have recommendations in every report, or we do. And I believe that our attorneys are our conscience in some way because they're just pointing to system failures where they tell us how to fix you. And it's good to do it in this house and I'll tell you why. Because this House chose the government, so the body that should implement these laws, this House was also elected by the D.A. with the task of keeping watch over this population, I would dare say so and to help us, to enable all of our citizens to have a better standard of life, as high as possible. So thank you, Attorney General, we will, of course, continue to cooperate, look forward and future reports. Of course, I'll support him as I've supported everyone so far with the hope that we'll record some significant progress in the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51866	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for this debate, we have two replicas. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51867	Chairman, I reported to counterpart Hajdukovic for the reason he spoke about the quality of this report but it is very important that the report is not a dead letter on paper. That's all I'm saying is that this report actually represents a picture of one condition and at the same time we know we have a strategy. The strategy was adopted on 20 April 2017, called the National Strategy for Equalisation of opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2017 to 2020. Therefore, this strategy is precisely the answer to a number of questions raised by the Ombudsman in this report because it identifies, through 16 areas, precise activities, indicators, operators, means that are determined, deadlines and starting points from where the strategy is being implemented. So now we also have a very high-quality document that will help us see if what the Ombudsman stands for as her problems, the competent authorities, the ministries, the government, are implementing in reality so that people with disabilities can have the status in society that they need to have.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51868	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for the replica. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51869	Thank you very much, colleague Jovanovic, for paying attention to this, 10 minutes is actually too short a time if you want to say everything that is on your mind about this problem. But I am absolutely glad that we have finally accepted the way of strategic thinking. This is not the only strategy we have come up with, we have more, a strategy to develop education, let's say, a strategy to develop entrepreneurship, etc. However, we are always in that second step, which is the implementation of the strategy in dealing with the strategic document. I fear that often when we are actually discussing our institutions of our attorneys, nor our citizens, and I am afraid that often our institutions do not know what their role is, so they address them with everything and their problems that are not actually in the power of the Ombudsman, but also many ministries of the institution know how to ignore memos, rushes, applications by the attorneys. I don't think the defense attorneys deserve such treatment and must not have such treatment, and we should openly point out that the attorney and through our reports point to problems in the implementation of this strategy but also so that we can systematically monitor whether certain things are being carried out. I think it's a good approach, but I would also like to send out an appeal from this place to the ministries and to all state institutions to cooperate with the attorneys, to respect that institution because just like them, they were chosen by this highest House, the highest political House of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51870	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51871	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's just about the system. So you mentioned the inability to treat abroad. What I know exists, we know that the system has a lot of problems but it's always hard to talk when we don't have all the information means if there's a situation. The right to planned treatment abroad exists is guaranteed by Regulation 883/2004, Directive 2011/24 of the EU and the sublaws of the HZZO. What is common to all of these rules is that the right to treatment abroad for the cost of HZZO can be achieved if the medical console responsible for this area of medicine determines that it is a treatment that represents a medical standard and that it can, indeed, provide reasonable assistance to the patient. So it would be good to know what information it is. But what is also important is that as many users as possible including the parents of persons with disabilities and persons with disabilities are informed about all the rights that Croatia and the EU legislation now provide in this regard so that they can achieve those rights in these cases where possible under the law. Another thing I would point out about the system issue and progress in the system, means the Ministry of Science, education for the next school year,... The year secured from ISF 362 million kuna for continuing assistants, 90.5 million kuna per year, which represents an increase of about 20% compared to last school year, so I think that 380 new students will be able to achieve that right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think it's still about shifts, they're never big enough, but I think they're significant, that we should keep going in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51872	I'd like to thank my colleague Falcone for the replica. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can't claim they're doing it on purpose. Maybe they're doing it out of ignorance, I don't really know. But I know, and I was a witness that parents often got missing but incomplete information when they informed about their rights. So maybe it's just a leak, I don't know, I can't argue. I also know that alternative medicine is involved that this system is not quite in the mood to consider such solutions. And I'm not talking about procedures within the EU now, so there are procedures and beyond. But I'm afraid, so I'm not an expert, I can't go so deep into trouble, I know what my parents told me. But what I do know is that as far as the child's system is concerned, I'd say it'd be in a wheelchair, it'd be getting some medication, and that way it'd spend life, maybe get some disability. So, we give up one perfectly healthy child as far as mental function is concerned. So no, there's no retardation or anything like that we give up and condemn that child to a very unquality life. So, I can't accept that the system will give up on anyone if there's an opportunity to help him, to lead a life that's minimally quality and minimally dignified, and it's likely that it's gonna allow him to all exhaust all possibilities before the system might say it's a little rough to write off, but he says there's no help. And the assistants in the class, so here's a few times the lawyer, the assistants in the class are a good thing, but they're not the solution to a deeper problem of education of people with disabilities purely from physical obstacles. Because I know that some colleges, like elevators and ramps, only when they got students with disabilities to all the other employment problems and the rest of what we talked about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51874	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51875	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. The reason why I'm actually appearing today is that I point out within this topic actually the problem of parents and children with developmental difficulties especially in these smaller environments, in the environments that I come from, or we can say that to those parents and those children who do not have the privilege of living in one of our largest cities. The protection of the health of citizens, especially children, is one of the specific and basic tasks of the state and society. That is why it is also a devastating fact obtained from the centers of the county welfare centres that only 40% of children with the most difficult forms of disability are covered by one of the frameworks of services. It's about children up to 7 years old. In particular, it is a problem in those environments as I have mentioned earlier where there are not enough specialists of logos, defecologists or none at all because they are away from the place of residence and need to travel to therapy. It is also known that due to travel and distances, the number of treatments decreases, or decreases. But let me, for example, try to illustrate what it looks like and what problems children with developmental difficulties face. Here are concrete examples from smaller environments like the one I come from, and I believe that such examples, unfortunately, are all over our beautiful. Let's start from the beginning. We all know that the solution to disability is, in fact, the basis for the exercise of a number of rights that arise for both children and parents. And that's exactly where a lot of problems begin. The biggest problem is I'm a process of art, his way and his longevity. They cause so much impotence and so much trouble with parents that we often can't imagine it. In particular, here is an example from practice. A request for skill was submitted on time before the date of the solution expires in February, or in the second month. The call for skills comes only in the fourth month, meaning only two months after the end of the previous solution. It takes two more months for the same solution to reach the Social Care Centre and only then the beginning of the seventh month comes the final solution. So, almost half a year of waiting, the parent gets the solution he needs to exercise a number of rights from those to achieve the parent status of the parent to the right of another parent and so on. Only art and all that precedes him is a story for himself. Some parents have to carry out their children up to a dozen reviews, so they get dozens of results, and they are examined in these environments where there are not enough experts, where there is no meaning specialists sometimes in remote places and up to a hundred kilometers away. In particular, here are my Ogulinci must travel regularly to Rijeka or Zagreb. The waiting lists are also very long and sometimes a few months must wait for the examination itself. The last piece of information I got was that one of my colleagues had to wait six months to check out the occult. And finally, if all of this is to be speeded up, the only solution is to pay and carry out a private-direct checkup, which, unfortunately, many have no financial opportunities. All these reviews plus the process itself or the process of art, plus the time needed to wait for a solution can last for more than 1 year and let alone luck at the end when all these solutions would be positive. In all that time, children have to go to rehab regularly, and families should function as normally as possible. Parents who do not have nursing status do not have the right to stay free of charge in the hospital together with children. The price is then dependent on the institution, about 200 kuna per day. No one asks them then why solutions don't come in time, where things work out, just ask if they have a solution or not. And what's saddest, what happens then, is that part of the parents give up because of these rehabilitations that these children need so much just because they don't have the financial opportunities to follow it all. The indisputable facts are that we have also developed legislation, that we have a network of social care centres and health institutions and that in most cases parents of children with developmental difficulties at the end and exercise their rights. But what's necessary is for those rights to come true in time because I don't think there's any excuse that when they wait one day and let alone sometimes for a year. So that there is no confusion, I welcome and support your work and this is no criticism for you. In fact, I also commend you for stressing in your 2016 report the problem of art alone and all the problems that come from children with disabilities and parents. I think that on this issue we can all agree on, and so let's not let sometimes the threefold system, the length of waiting, or maybe we can say the sub-capacitations of the system suffer from end-users, which in this case are parents and children because they deserve it the least. And believe me, in the end, that with all the troubles and the problems they're dealing with, sometimes they're even harder to deal with because of their slowness, trombones and bureaucracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51876	I thank Mr Liposchak for this debate. We have two replicas, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51877	Thank you very much. Comrade Liposchack, I absolutely agree with you for saying, unfortunately it is a cruel reality. I'd like to supplement your debate myself. You've set an example, a very mature example of a family from a smaller environment, and I'm going to give you an example of this boy I was talking about in the White Hill. So, the white hill is not far from Osijek, it's about ten kilometers away, maybe less. Several times a week, that little boy has to go swimming so his muscles don't atrophy, he has to go to the doctor, get new medicines, etc. He has to go several times a week to Đakovo which is far more distant, much more distant in chiropractors, he has to go several times a week, although I'm not sure how, once or 4 times a month or more, it would lie to you, to Slavonski Brod for therapy. He has to go several times a week to Vukovar where he's part of a community, so an association that works to socialize such children. It has to go abroad from time to time, so it's not often but significant financial expenditure. He must go to Zagreb, of course, for various specialist reviews. So, when you count it all, we put the financial thing aside now, the time only, so that child requires a 100% 24-hour attention from one of the parents. Parents today when they have to work, when they have to acquire it, can hardly afford it. This boy is lucky to have a grandfather who's absolutely committed himself to it and who's here, likes to say both driver and father and mother when they're gone. He's lucky, he's got those who don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51878	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. The answer of my colleague, Lipošak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51879	A colleague of Hajdukovic, actually what I was talking about. Yeah, that's the problem and that's why this part of the long term of art, very often the biggest problem because if a child gets a solution to disability, a parent can exercise the right to parent status and other rights that come out of it and has the possibility, has the opportunity to use a certain fee and be 24 hours with a child. What happens in these holes while waiting for a solution, from the end of the previous solution to the end of the art of the new solution, they have no such rights and then they are either forced to work to enable their child to at least a minimum of what or are forced to be at home without any financial means.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51880	I would like to thank my colleague Liposak for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51881	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Lipoščak, you were actually talking about individual cases today, that you were here and you were following a colleague of Strenja-Linić, she was actually telling you about this law of the unique body of art that was not through thorough analyses too quickly passed during the Government of the SDP in 2013 and actually created one force of the problem, at one point there were over 100,000 unsolved cases. You were just talking about one case, now imagine 100 grand. You multiply that by 100 grand, so that's the fate of a person with disabilities. The fact is, there are now approximately 40,000 unsolved items. What needs to be said, and it has spread throughout the day's debate. So you have to distinguish people with disabilities, it's the person who has long-term, permanent, mental, intellectual or sensory damage and who, in interaction with different obstacles, can't prevent it from being fully involved in the community, so it can't be the same as a person without disability. Children with developmental difficulties are a child who, due to physical sensory, communication or speech-language or intellectual difficulties, needs one additional support for learning and development in order to achieve the best possible developmental outcome and social inclusion, that is to say. As far as the system is concerned, as far as states are concerned, the social services provided by persons with disabilities go as the first social service or information you have talked about and then counselling, assistance in the house, psychosocial support, early intervention, stay, accommodation, organization. The Republic of Croatia has 44 homes that are related to people with disabilities and developmental difficulties, it is neither small nor large. So the system is worried maybe to an insufficient extent, but we think, from the very beginning to the present that there are great shifts, that they can be bigger, certainly they can be and we all need to keep on doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51882	I thank my colleague Babic for his reply. Here's a reply from your fellow Liposchack.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51883	Of course, I agree with everything that you fellow Babic said and of course there are major shifts in the system. But if we were to talk about positive things, I think it's the duty of all of us, regardless of what side we're on, that every system is trying to improve. And I don't think any government, whatever side they're coming from, left, right, had any intention, at least I hope, and I don't want to believe that it's different that some rights are diminishing or reducing them. And as for these figures and individual cases, we were talking about 400,000 unsolved items, but we often deal with 40, 50 thousand numbers, and that's why I wanted to go through an individual case and get close to each case being personalized. Because when we deal with numbers, we only think about numbers very often, and when we talk about concrete things and concrete cases, we're a little bit clearer and more sensitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51884	I would like to thank my colleague Liposak for his reply. Next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51885	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Attorney with an associate, I'm glad to see what, State Secretary and colleagues from the ministry. I'm glad we have a very good report ahead of us. When a man looks at 362 pages. By reading the report, there is a non-stop on useful data, links, proposals solutions, the question is, of course, how much this is taken into account and whether more relevant institutions and respect the addressed recommendations of our attorneys, who also have many. And I'm really happy with the quality of the report, because here in the House we read a lot of reports, and I think this should be a little bit of a splinter about how to do something quality, to get a full review, complete relationships, communication, about laws, about institutions, statistics. Indeed, everything can be found here together and you can get the impression that we are in a position in Croatia, what should be done, who has failed to do something, and who is trying to make things a better way, especially when you compare the year after year. What may be most interesting in the overall report is that the number of complaints is less, compared to the previous years, which means that Croatia is going in part as regards persons with disabilities in a positive direction, that things are being corrected, although from other things, when you look at them, and that we often have discussions here, which is that we can adapt at least public service to people to show as a state of care and care, then you get data, that for example institutions that should be publicly available to all citizens, without any restrictions, do not do so. And then the question arises why and how long do we need to, for example, the Pension Services, the Social Care Centres, all other institutions, the judiciary, the courts, to adapt themselves to the needs of each of our citizens in the Republic of Croatia. That we all have the same opportunity to come and no limit and no problem doing what we are expected to do and what we need. And then when you see data, for example, for centres, for social care and pension insurance, where only some of them are connected 300 and some buildings quickly, location, when you see that only 17 is completely, without any restrictions adapted to people with disabilities, then you ask yourself a question, and where is it, or why we haven't solved these things for a long time. 133 has no access at all. And I think there are certain and legal provisions that sanction the answer if that doesn't happen. And then that is where we should go from ourselves, specifically from the Ministry responsible for these institutions, because if the social care centres at Mrs. Mađerić, the pension of Mr. Pavic or Mrs. Buric, who was on our board when we talked about certain things. And that's why we don't make Benchmark every year to see how that changes. And not that from year to year, our lawyer warns, and there's someone sending an answer or not sending an answer, and there's almost no progress on that matter. So we need to start from the state and from ourselves. We see that the largest number of complaints and citizens' address is what is understandable about social care, employment and pension. What I have debated here in the Croatian Parliament and what I want to pay particular attention to are the disabled, i.e. the disability that people have achieved in terms of mental difficulties. We see that such persons are 128,000 in the Republic of Croatia and that they have a huge problem accepting in society, especially when it comes to employment. That's what I said during the debate, when there was a Law on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, that it was unacceptable for me to assess the disability of that person in the institutions that are entitled to do so by inadequately qualified doctors, so you can come there and then you can get an assessment for, that is, the person who comes there, for example, a pediatrician, and you have mental difficulties. This is also inadmissible on this side, we need to make sure that certain trends are made, and here is the Ombudsman's own report saying that in 2020, according to some conventions, every other one in Croatia will be tied to mental difficulties and that the person with disabilities will be more and more. So we have to take care of these people, because the stigma in these people is even more pronounced than in other types of disability, and it needs to be fought and should, of course, be accepted and included in every possible way in everyday life and that people have no restriction and that they do not feel bad about their illness. On the other hand, I mean, here's something I especially want to point out, and that's what the lawyer said, when we talked to these students who don't have money for education, or, for transport, that's something I especially want to warn them about once again, so that's inadmissible. On the other hand, when we look at the infrastructure in Croatia, i.e. the position of large cities and smaller communities, it is seen that most of the services are provided by large cities because there are a number of centres for social care and adequately qualified officials or those involved. And the lawyer rightly warned of the need to support the associations. And what has bothered me over the past few years, which civil society associations, quite often, unfortunately now, I say a year, two, are experiencing as enemies. States and as consumers of money, we know what we have witnessed in the past years and also in the Ministry of Social Welfare and the Ministry of Culture, of course, it is another area, but it should be mentioned, where associations and the civil sector have experienced themselves as only those who spend money and do not use anything. And in this particular segment, their role is immeasurable. So where there is no infrastructure, there are parents, families, organized to help their loved ones and give them a quality life. And on that side, even more effort and support by the ministry, not only is it expected but it is also an obligation. And on the other hand, we'll pay particular attention to this year's budget, see what the trend is. Do these people have enough support from the ministry and everyone else who should give them support? And of course, the most important thing is support, we all know that, the money. And when you look at how much these associations spend money, and if it compares to the work they do, it can't be compensated, and so the state can look from the point of view, whether it's more or less, I guarantee you that these associations are even more productive than the state does some jobs. There is not a single kuna thrown into the wind and God has given it that we can invest it 10 times more in the civil sector, especially in this area. In the end, what bothers me particularly is employment, we discussed it, I said a few weeks or a week ago, where it was seen that the affected institutions are not respected, nor are money being paid, nor are they being controlled, and I will especially insist on it as chairman of the Committee for Labour in the Croatian Parliament, in order to drive out what we prescribed by law. That we have to enable people what the law allows them, and that they have a certain championship, that they have certain protected jobs, that it is subsidized if they need money, and ultimately, that once we have passed a certain law relating to persons with disabilities, that it is respected. Because when we do, then we'll work out a lot of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51886	I thank my colleague Maras. We have one replica, dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51887	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You said about when you were talking about civil society associations, that those on the other hand actually rebelled, they didn't realize their role in our society. For the sake of truth and for the sake of the public, there was actually a discussion about the national foundation for the development of civil society and the distribution of money from gambling, where, compared to then society, associations that are related to persons with disabilities and who are actually engaged in social and humanitarian activities were a far smaller percentage than, say, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. One thing, the other was about social bargaining, which is far less than the funding received by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. So I'm going to tell you, let's say in 2015 that trust was given to a circus of about 43 million kunas, of which there were 33 million kunas for some kind of participatory democracy. So, that's the non-lame, hate, detention, I don't know, person with disabilities, mental disturbances to elections, election maintenance, etc. while we warned that these funds could be used better for persons with disabilities. Certain associations with people with disabilities, Mr Lipoščak says, let's say, imagine that the person with the disability of the lice who has to do things I don't know, the art of Split or Zagreb, which is the cost, which is the time, and that there is no means to do so. So, those associations that deal exclusively with people with disabilities there need to have sensitivity and empathy, to really help them because they directly work with people with disabilities. That's what we're talking about. So no one has spoken against civil society associations, they are particularly desirable in rural areas where the system and institutions cannot properly do their job What you said, let's say, as in Zagreb and the larger environments until, say, in rural areas it is not possible and is done exclusively through associations or the Association for Persons with Disabilities. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51888	I would like to thank my colleague Babic, colleague Maras' reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51889	Thank you very much. Comrade Babic, what you just said is a wrong approach for me. You can't show in that little limited area and the civil society sector these are good, these are bad, these are what we're going to take, these are what we're going to give. So this whole relationship of questioning the need for certain associations that are what you said, so to me, here I am parenting two children in primary school, this is extremely important to me, this project that you mentioned earlier is promoting a zero tolerance rate to any form of violence. What's wrong with saying that now, and we're gonna take them to give someone else? So I say, let's cut 50 state secretaries and give it to organizations dealing with people with disabilities. Why didn't you say so? We have never again officials, mostly across the EU. Here's the other day I read about it in the paper, it's grown exponentially, hundreds of assistants, state secretary, it's like a story. Reduce by 50% and if there are 50 fewer, the cost is 10.15 million kuna a year, which we can give to people with disabilities. That's what I'm talking about. Let's save up where it's supposed to be saved, not in civil society. Which is why we would not have associations that promote democracy, tolerance, etc. That's not bad. But when you argue that it's as bad as former Minister Hasanbegovic did, then people and these associations that do other things look negatively, they're consumers of money, so people reason it. That's what we have to fight for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51890	I thank my colleague Maras for this answer. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51891	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Attorney, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I join the commendation of this report but not only on the report but also on the overall work of this office run by Mrs. Slonjak, I think they are really doing a great job and contributing to improving the status of people with disabilities. By reading the report, I have also read some other materials, and I recommend that everyone read this report, it is a guide to the application of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Promoting the Rights of Children with a very good message that says, what we should all, look at me and listen to me. I read in this material that the world is estimated to have 2 billion children of which 200 million are children with developmental difficulties, about 10%. And it is assumed that these 10% of children were able to be prevented by numerous damages and resulting disability, that they were discovered in time, that in time they had access to rehabilitation, that they had been given quality education. So one of the biggest problems in people with disabilities, especially in children with developmental difficulties, which they determine and judge by what they lack rather than by what they have. And that's one of the most important messages that we as politicians have to spread and develop, so it doesn't matter what a person with disabilities is missing, it matters what that person has. And every person, especially when it comes to children, should be able to develop to maximum limits. Therefore, there is really a key education there, because even today we could hear that when it comes to people with disabilities that are less educated, less employed, those who are employed are employed in less paid places and 18% of them literally live in poverty. If we look at the educated structure again, we can see that 66% of people with disabilities only have primary school, 26% of high school, 3%, only 3% high and higher school and some kind of special education 5%. At the end of this debate, I would like to repeat that 511 thousand 194 persons with disabilities were registered in Croatia in February 2016, making up almost 12% of the total population of which 203 thousand 606 or 39% of women and 307 thousand 588 male. What I particularly draw attention to in the register are data for 33,000 367 children with greater developmental difficulties, which is 6.9% of which is 38% of girls and 62% of boys. The importance of education can also be seen by the fact that the strategy adopted on 20 April 2017 highlights the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I quote: "It is recommended that countries take direct steps to ensure that all persons with disabilities have access to inclusive primary school, secondary and tertiary education and that reasonable adjustments are provided for them within regular education." What would be a reasonable adjustment? In accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a reasonable adjustment to the necessary and appropriate modification and adjustment that does not constitute an disproportionate or inappropriate burden in order to ensure, in a case-by-case manner, that, where necessary, persons with disabilities enjoy or use of all human rights and founded freedoms on an equal footing with others. Furthermore, it is recommended to adopt the principle that exclusive and separate education is discriminatory, it is recommended that teachers, teachers and other experts be provided with education on inclusive education and that all secondary education facilities be accessible to persons with disabilities. Accordingly, our strategy sets out 3 objectives from 2017 to 2020. First, ensure the conditions of inclusive education of students with developmental difficulties. Second, establish support centres and professional and mobile teams. And third, include a number of children with developmental difficulties in the regular system of pre-school, primary and secondary education and higher education in the middle of which the child, the younger person lives. And on this basis, the National Strategy sets out 7 areas, 7 measures and 13 concrete activities. And that's what I've replicated to my colleague Hajdukovic, so we now have a well-known tool that will allow the reports presented today by our Ombudsman for people with disabilities and these strategies to make sure that all the problems mentioned in the report through the implementation of the measures and activities of the strategy come true. And to read these seven measures, I consider them important because much of the debate today was about education. So these are the first measures to ensure inclusive education for students with developmental difficulties, another measure to increase the availability of secondary education. The third measure provides infrastructure support to students with developmental difficulties. The fourth to establish a single system of providing direct support to assistants in the teaching and professional communications intermediaries. The fifth provide textbooks adapted to the special educational needs of students in language, letter and media. Six, encourage projects of civil society organisations with the aim of providing extra-institutional forms of support to students with development, education and education difficulties. And the seventh measure increases the availability of higher education. How successful all these measures will be we will be able to check in due time very soon, given that you have listened carefully or read for yourself, only 3% of people with disabilities have completed high and higher school. So in a few years, we will be able to see if reports from our attorneys and this Strategy produce results through an increase in the percentage of people with disabilities who have completed higher and higher school because then this will mean a better job for them, a better salary and the quality of life that will be worthy of the 21st century. I thank the D.A., and I wish her much more success in her work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51892	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51893	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Jovanovic, I'd like to underline again, and you're absolutely right when you talk about education. I may always talk about education as a solution because I am from this profession but I really think that the quality of life, that the perspective of life in children can only be ensured through the availability and quality of education. Unfortunately, in many segments, the quality of education of such children now depends on the openness of a particular school, that is, the enthusiasm of certain teachers and their parents. It can't be a case, we have to stop it. And especially what I pointed out, children with disabilities must be integrated into a normal class and whenever possible because it is necessary for the social and social development of that child. High school education is usually the weakest link and in order to go to higher and higher education at all, we have to have high school education, and I would like to first see the growth of children with disabilities who enroll and finish high school. Unfortunately, many of our high schools do not have even solved basics, meaning physical obstacles, so ramps, elevators, etc. so that these students can attend high school. It has to be removed. So these infrastructure parts are the easiest to remove, are not, represent no significant expenditure, with them staying, so no ramps or elevators will be built every year and will actually continue education, possibility and availability of education for students. So these are little things that life means and wouldn't cost much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51894	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic for his replica. The answer of my colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51895	Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic. So here's a replica I'm going to use to highlight quality examples of working with children from Rijeka where we've spent many years from kindergarten through elementary school to college, we've made it possible for everyone to get the highest quality education and graduates. In addition, I would mention this occasion, I don't know if she's watching a meeting of an extremely valuable girl who's also doctored her name is Lana Prager, she's from Zagreb, and she's, among other things, the help of an association, a civil association called "Imagine", she's really accomplished all of her abilities that she has, even though she's really a person with great disabilities. So if they are given the support they deserve, they can make a big contribution to Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51896	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for his response. On behalf of the government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, MPs and counsellors, Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. So here at the end of this day and the debate on the attorney general's report for people with disabilities, I think we can conclude that we had a good, constructive and quality discussion. This is a topic that we do not laugh about, we should not and should not share, whether, if we come from the opposition, the opposition or from the ruling party, on the left or right of the assembly. It is the responsibility of all of us, on every individual of our society, and especially on participants in the public, political, economic and cultural life of the Republic of Croatia, that not only is the annual report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, but we are generally discussing the problems of persons with disabilities and what is crucial to solve these problems. I believe that today we agree that there are many problems but that we also have many positive shifts. And that is the goal that we achieve together in cooperation with the non-governmental sector that our partners are. Today, there are two NGOs, the “Imagine” Association and the “Bubamar” Association, but there are many more who are impressive and who are precisely by their own actions, but also by means of programmes and projects, which from the European funds are able to finance and help children with development difficulties and people with disabilities. I believe that we have a unique view that we should not return to the past in these topics because the past will not solve our problems in the future. I would also briefly talk about the most important issues that we have, in particular, made clear today to MPs and MPs, and this is related to, for example, the amendments and additions to the Social Welfare Act, which is in the public debate in the context of improving the protection of persons with disabilities with these Amendments and supplements, foresees the possibility of exercising the right to the status of a guardian to a married or out-of-marriage partner of a person with disabilities, in particular taking into account the fact that a married or out-of-marriage partner with a disabled person with whom she lives in a family community can also provide the necessary care. This will expand the circle of people with disabilities and provide better quality protection and prevention of institutionalisation. Also something that is very important and what is also a competent minister, Minister Murganic has listened to exactly the advice of both the non-governmental sector and parents and children and persons with disabilities are changes to the conditions of recognition of the right to a personal disability. The purpose of exercising the right to a personal disability is to meet life's needs for involvement in the everyday life of the community. What is crucial is to include persons with disabilities on the labour market. We, when we were now in our ministry celebrating the 50th birthday of one of our employees who was a person with disabilities and when she was blowing candles on a cake her wish was that the longer she worked. It is our job to provide people with disabilities with one of the fundamental human rights, which is the right to work. In order to ensure that that purpose and the more active inclusion of persons with disabilities on the labour market, Amendments and additions to the Social Care Act are provided for in Article 1 of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, a person with disabilities whose salary is determined shall not be included in the income when determining the conditions for the recognition of this right and the application of the rules is provided for as from 1 January 2018. The MPs also pointed out here, I would like to repeat this because I think it is extremely important that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a new National Strategy at its meeting on 20 April 2017, equating opportunities for people with disabilities from 2017 to 2010 with the aim of progress and further promoting the rights of persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. The implementation of the measures of the National Strategy will coordinate all policies of action in the field of promoting the rights of persons with disabilities with global standards but also with all trends aimed at ensuring that all areas of life and activities are open and accessible to persons with disabilities. And on the basis of this, education is crucial for the end, and I think it is also important here to point out that the Ministry of Education for the school year 2017, 2018, provided 2317 assistants in the follow-up that provide a service for 2670 students with developmental difficulties. So it increases from year to year that number of users of support. These funds are provided from the European Social Fund through tenders, gambling funds provided through associations and funds from the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government. I think that this cooperation between municipalities, cities, counties, of course the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all participants in society is crucial in order to achieve all the fundamental documents of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51898	I'd like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State. We have a few replicas. Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51899	Dear Secretary of State, after discussing this report all day long, what I would like to hear from you and what those who followed this and the Ombudsman would like to hear, so I would like to know how you intend to resolve the supervision of the persons located, the quality of providing care for the persons located in foster families and family homes. So I dug up one of the data so for those who didn't know, it's now 1557 foster families where 4459 users are located. The ministry concluded a contract with private 85 family homes and a total of 411 were entered. I had information that there were 500 of them, 411 were the ones that were enrolled with you in the ministry. How do you think you're going to carry out surveillance over these homes and that we said it was a burning problem at this point? You only have three teams that can't go around all 411. Do you think it's possible to decentralize surveillance because these people in these family homes and foster families can't make it clear to all of us, we can't, we can't hear what's going on with them, we know that the problems are but the only continuous surveillance over them can make it possible for us and for some of these family homes to close down and that some of the foster families and lose their license? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51900	I thank my colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. The Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51901	Thank you very much. Very briefly, therefore, there is certain that there are a number of problems that you mentioned here, and a working group has been set up to make and amend and supplement the Household Act. The capacity of the ministry to be supervised by all foster families like you said is not enough. And what is the goal and plan, of course, and through units of local self-government and also the NGO sector through programmes and projects that we finance to increase and monitor and control foster families.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51902	I would like to thank you for your response to the esteemed secretary of state. Next replica, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51903	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary of State, I thank you very much for making such a taxo list of just some of the improvements in the quality of life of people with disabilities. You are here today as a representative of the government, the government promised the disabled at the beginning of its term of office a partnership. In the past year, I think that people with disabilities can confirm and the Ombudsman herself present here, that this partnership really works. Therefore, I believe that we will continue to work together in the best possible way to ensure that the quality of life of people with disabilities is on one better, even better level than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51904	I thank my colleague Lukacic. Thank you very much. Next replica of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51905	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, so here we all tried to make some good suggestions in our discussions today. Of course, we all mentioned what hinders people with developmental difficulties but almost all of us in our discussions looked back on children with developmental difficulties. I've mentioned some good examples before, so I'll go back with what's good. In my county, i.e. the town of Slavonski Brod, there is a Golden Cekin facility, most of you have heard of such an institution that helps children at the earliest age and school children, is an emphasis on early diagnostics, rehabilitation, on early socialization of children with developmental difficulties. Pediatricians, physicists, physiotherapists, they are all trained precisely to work with children, but unfortunately the capacity of weekly accommodation is only for twenty children in that institution. Some also use daily accommodation. Some kind of, I think, fairer bargaining by the ministry that should recognize such institutions that really show good results, I think it might be helpful, so here I appeal to everyone now that if there are any opportunities, it means that such institutions are being helped because the services of all residents of almost all Slavonia but also much wider.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51906	I thank my colleague Maximchuk for the replica. State Secretary's reply, Mrs. Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51907	Thank you very much. Here is also very short on the esteemed replica of representative Lukačić and representative Maksimčuk. Yes, the non-governmental sector is our partner, and this is the key cooperation with NGOs with the disability of children with developmental disabilities and what is important here, a continuous, good and partnered co-operation, in fact, the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, and I believe that this association will also be able to report well and quality programmes and projects, both from domestic national funds and EU funds, in order to have and can cover the work of your own association as well. I think it is also important here to point out that the current personal assistance services in Croatia are used by 1488 persons for a period of a year and a half, which is more than 350 users of personal assistance services and 395 users of sign language interpreters and visual escorts, these are indicators that we still have a growing number of users from funding programmes and projects from the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51908	I would like to thank the secretary of state, Mrs. Mađeric, for her reply. Final word on behalf of the Attorney General, Mrs Anka Slošnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51909	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. I would like to conclude here in accordance with what I have listed in the report. Persons with disabilities are tired of promises and really do not have time or patience to wait when they will be able to fully exercise their fundamental rights. Parents of children with disabilities should return to parenthood by supporting them to be parents, not experts, lawyers, rehabilitators, etc. They all have the right to concrete decisions. I believe that Croatian society must be socially responsible. And with strategic documents, have concrete solutions as well as meaningful reflections of short- and long-term policies that ensure real inclusion, which would not only be reduced to convenient anniversarys in which we mark people with different types of disability, repeating who knows which path to identical problems. Dignity is not built through media comments and compassionate contributions, but by making equal opportunities for access to goods and services in all areas. We expect the funds that the state allocates for children with disabilities to be targeted and tailored to the individual needs of each person with the necessary impact evaluation. We want every law passed in this body to identify people with disabilities. We are happy to call for the potential of disabled people to be unused but we are not creating a realistic enough opportunity to develop these abilities as if we do not trust the possibilities of disabled people. We also do not have the right to delay the adoption of a solution of vital importance for people with disabilities. The relationship with them should be consistent and continuous. We have a commitment through public policies and decisions to create clear links, competences at all levels to ensure an equal position no matter where these persons live. We do not agree to excuses for delaying the execution of decisions made by this body, such as those taken. Parliament's conclusions adopted after a special report on autism. We often claim that we did everything we could, but there were circumstances. Well, it's us who create these circumstances. Instead of transferring responsibility to others, we combine knowledge and energy to find a solution rather than to suppress them in which everything remains only on wishes without real movement. At the end of our recommendation to the body of the state government. Local and regional self-government units as well as bodies at all other levels are a reflection of the real, life and often extremely major problems of people with disabilities and parents of children with disabilities and should be the starting point for positive changes. If we have already defined ourselves as a society for the participation of people with disabilities, for education and inclusion, we must not agree to the justifications that it requires already the means and that it costs and that the state has no money because every economic independence of people with disabilities is a gain for the community society. What costs most is the passivity and dissatisfaction of individuals and families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51910	I thank the esteemed attorney, Anki Slošnjak, for this final word. We've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for the disabled Anki Slošnjak on these reasons of this report and her associate. I would also like to thank the secretary of state at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Mrs Margareta Majeric, with her associate. We'll vote this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51911	Report on the work of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities for 2016. She's a lawyer for people with disabilities. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 96 for and 2 abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51912	We move to the next item of the agenda: Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2015. Since the report for 2016 is right behind this point, I suggest we unify these two agenda points if no one objects? There isn't. Thank you. So agenda points. - Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2015 and - Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2016. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the protection of competition. The discussion was conducted by the committee responsible for the economy. The government has delivered its opinion. I would like to ask the representative of the Commissioner for the Protection of the Competition Council Mr. Mladin Cerovac to give us an additional explanation of these two reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51913	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. Before you there is the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2015 and 2016. We note that the 2015 Annual Work Report was submitted to the Croatian Assembly early May 2016, but due to the objective circumstances, he comes together with this 2016 report for the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, I will try to give a brief comparative representation of the Agency's work in both reporting periods. In 2015, the agency resolved 667 cases, which increased by 5.2% compared to 2014 in 2016, which was approximately at the level of previous reporting periods. On 31 December 2015, 28 cases remained open in which the process was still pending due to its complexity. This number was further reduced to only 19 cases on 31 December 2016. In 2015 and 2016 the Agency conducted an examination and analysis of the situation on a large number of relevant markets, of which more than 60 only in 2016. In 2015, administrative penalty measures amounting to 17,5 million kuna were imposed on the state budget of 7 million kuna, as the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia annulled some decisions by the Agency. In 2016, the agency imposed administrative penalty measures of a million kuna 592 thousand which were also paid into the budget. This should also be added to the administrative fees charged in 2015. 300 thousand kuna, and in 2016 of 255,000 kuna which also goes into the state budget. By nature, the agency does not have its own income but is financed exclusively from the state budget. The planned funds for carrying out operations in the state budget for 2015 amounted to 11.7 million kuna, while the cost of spending was achieved through savings amounted to 11 million kuna and 94% respectively compared to the plan. The planned funds for 2016 amounted to 10.3 million kuna, while the cost of savings was 10.2 million kuna and almost 99% compared to the plan. As AZTN has made a strong account of the strictly dedicated and rational spending of budgets and is systematically working to reduce all expenditure on which it has influence, material expenditure has been reduced by 18% compared to 2015 in 2016. The largest part of the agency's expenditure structure is nearly 74% of staff expenditure. However, in 2016 these expenditures were reduced by 133,000 kuna, i.e. by 1.75% compared to the previous year. The salaries of the Agency's workers, unlike sectoral regulators, are governed by the Public Service Payments Act, while job titles and cost-effectiveness factors of the Agency's work are governed by a Regulation on job names and public service complexity coefficients. In 2015, 46 workers were employed by the Agency, including five council members, which was a reduction compared to the previous year when 48 employees were employed by the Agency. This number was further reduced in 2016 by two more workers and 44 were employed at the end of the year, and this week we were 42. In fact, a reduction in the number of AZTN employees is not to be looked forward, namely, a drain of experts, with a trend of negative selection continuing year after year. In fact, the profile of experts and knowledge acquired by AZTN is very much sought not only in the private sector but in Croatian sectoral regulators whose AZT cannot compete at the level of wages and in the European Commission. In 2016, 34 employees worked at law enforcement directly at the implementation of the Competition Protection Act, they were divided into teams that make up always at least 1 lawyer, 1 economist, depending on the complexity of the case. The complexity of the Agency’s tasks corresponds to a high qualification structure of employees. Thus, in 2016, high or higher professional equipment had 98% of employees, 23 employees had completed postgraduate studies, the scientific degree of the doctor of science, or university specialists. There's only one worker in the middle. In addition to the fact that all experts working directly at the implementation of the Competition Protection Act must be actively used in the least English language, all lawyers must have a legal exam and those who impose administrative criminal measures must also have an additional 4 years of working experience in legal matters after a judicial examination has been passed, which is appropriate for a criminal judge. In 2015, 2016 another equally important and specific task of the agency was expressed, it is a legal obligation of the Agency to promote competition law and policy in order to create a culture of competition and awareness that all Croatian regulations must comply with competition regulations. In this context, the Agency adopted 51 opinions on the compatibility of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions with market competition rules in 2015 and addressed more than 100 questions from entrepreneurs and their associations. This continues in 2016 in which the Agency adopted more than 100 opinions and indications of laws and other regulations. The fact that the creation of a culture of competition is a long-term process is a testimony to the fact that in 2016 the effect has been achieved by some opinions and recommendations that the Agency has adopted in previous periods based on an analysis of existing rules and comparative practices. Thus, in 2016, following the Agency’s long-term engagement in favour of competition in these areas, activities were launched in changing the rules relating to the auto school market and the regulation of car taxi services. In addition to concrete implementation activities and to give an opinion on the modest human resources of AZTN, in 2015 and in particular in 2016, it largely occupied the cooperation of the Agency’s experts on the development of 2 legislative proposals. These are the Law on compensation procedures for infringement of competition law and the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. The Agency’s involvement was particularly intense and demanding in the process of drawing up a bill on compensation proceedings for infringements of competition law in which the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and Trade authorised AZTN to form an expert working group for its construction. At the same time, two AZTN experts participated very actively in the work of the Committee for the Construction of the Draft Law on the ban on unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. The Law on Compensation Procedures for Infringement of Competition Rights was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in June 2017 while the Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Supply Chain is now going to a second reading. The bill envisions the name AZTN for its implementation. In fulfilling the task of promotion and education from competition rights, the Agency organised its first regional specialized conference on IT forensics in 2015 with the Faculty of Law in Rijeka, involving experts from 11 national agencies and representatives of the DORH and the MUP with whom AZTN co-operated closely. This Decision shall enter into force on the The AZTN also organised the International Conference, the transposition of the damages directive, which brought together hundreds, domestic and foreign legal experts from the academic, professional and business community. In the promotion of competition, the Agency started preparing in 2015 a guidebook for the disclosure and application, in the detection and application of a cartel in public procurement which came out of the press and was published on our website in December 2016. This is a practical manual for the contracting authorities, participants in public procurement procedures that in the most simple way help identify the cartel in public procurement and give them a way to address the agency. In international co-operation, AZTN has made a major step not only for the agency but also for the Republic of Croatia. At the invitation of the OECD, AZTN was involved in the work of its Competition Committee. The achievement of the team is greater because AZTN has become a member of that committee on the basis of the results of its work and long-term activities. Although the Republic of Croatia is not yet a member of the OECD. The international activities of AZTN in this 2015 and 2016 should also include active participation in the work of the European Commission in the convergence of competition rules, on the internal market, in the work of a number of specialised working groups of the European Network for Protection against Competition. Working in the International Network of Competition Protection Authorities, so-called ACN, and in the work of the United Nations Trade Commission, UNCTAD. In the field of bilateral cooperation, AZTN concluded in 2015 an Agreement on Cooperation with the Protection Body against Montenegro's Competition. And in conclusion, we can conclude that the number of open and resolved cases and the execution of other transactions from the Agency's section is important at the level of results from previous reporting periods. In view of the fact that the number of procedures in the Agency in a significant part or entirely depends on the knowledge of the infringement of the rules in the competition it receives from entrepreneurs, we hold that the activation of entrepreneurs would significantly change this picture through a repentance programme with the Agency in the detection of cartels. The programme, unfortunately, has never lived in practice since its inclusion in Croatian regulations, making it difficult for AZTN to fight this most difficult form of violations of competition rules. Although this is not a specific problem for Croatia because in some older members, such a same programme does not work, for example in Italy, its functioning is crucial for the detection of secret agreements between entrepreneurs. This best shows the fact that all the cartels discovered and sanctioned by the European Commission over the last 10 years have been the result of information provided by entrepreneurs to members of these cartels as penitents. Therefore, the affirmation of the penitentiary programme through the education of entrepreneurs in combination with significant amounts of administrative penalties and measures for participation in the cartel will be one of the key tasks of the Agency in the coming period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51914	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, the first Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51915	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Cerovac, somehow every time we consider a report here by all agencies, we're kind of stressing that agencies should be independent and independent in their work. What may not be your fault, or this report, is that there are let's say such deliberate or unintended legal gaps where you can't even perform. I will now read part of the solution you signed. He says, "Concerned to the above, it has been found that Flora Vtc Virovitica applies the same conditions to all when negotiating a funeral service where the applicant is no exception. The applicant of the initiative is Mario Kolarevic, who owns the craft for the funeral services of Leira from Virovitica." Now, you see when you say that Flora Virovitica, whose founder of the city applies the same conditions to all, it refers to that she applies the same conditions to herself, according to one turn that no longer works, according to one twist that is satisfied and according to this craft that endures this performance. And what is that conclusion, he says, of equal terms to himself? Of course, there are regulated activities within the very burial service that the company is carrying out, but there is this market share that other legal persons are more difficult to come by. Because if he defines, and the time of burial can be market activity. You know why? Because let's say in Slatina, the time of burial doesn't cost you the same thing if it's up to 3 hours during working hours or after 3 hours. And these explanations actually to me, here as a citizen, as a layman don't stand because then you bring into an unfair position other craftsmen who are on the market, but I'm saying it's not your fault, it's probably also a situation where local self-government units can start companies because here you've stated that Flora Vtc is registered to carry out a whole series of activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51916	Mr. Sagar, thank you. Thank you very much. Second replica, Mrs. Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51917	Thank you very much. In your report you also mentioned one fact, which is the education or knowledge that your employees have. So, employees of people who are in the public sector or in the public administration bodies are extremely important to be quality, to be with broad knowledge, you said that the minimum knowledge of a foreign language is related to a judicial exam, so I'm actually interested in how you're actually doing in view of the situation that's on the market to gain adequate strength compared to what you have planned, the number of employees, how you manage to maintain a certain level of business with employees and give and make some extra efforts to get real quality people. Perhaps by hiring a trainee and thus actually educating young people and staying. What we all had experience that even when you educate, they go to the real sector, go to another labour market, and our interest, public services, public administrations are quality that will have better quality people with wider knowledge, wider experiences, and what will they do to keep them alive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51918	Thank you, too. Mr. Cerovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51919	Dear MPs, I thank you for this question, it is one of the key issues and it is something that should actually be dealt with systematically. These people on the market are almost gone, so we have to hire them and educate them, and education is not the same. So in colleges there are only colleges, by the way, it's actually a competition, the only way to study is to actually send them to seminars and conferences abroad which, of course, costs. But then they're there, they've been working with us for three, four years, they learn everything, and then of course someone takes them. We tried to sort it out in a way to pay them postgraduate studies or doctoral studies, but it costs so much, we can't do it anymore, so we pay him, and then he's obliged to stay as long as the study lasted. So he works during his studies and works after that. But here, this week two experts left me and I don't know how I'm going to make up for it, honestly. We don't have any reserves, especially if someone goes to sick leave, we have long-term sick leave, and that's the problem, absolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51920	Thank you, too. The committee reporter's gone, so we won't even ask him if he wants to take his word for it. Now we have two Domagogies, one in front of the SDP, the other in front of the HDZ. First, Domagoj Hajdukovic in front of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your last name, tell us the difference. So, dear Mr. Cerovac, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Cerovac has already said a lot in his opening statement but I will try not to repeat the facts but to say a few facts that we consider important and which we would like to underline in this late afternoon debate. So first of all, what I would like to underline is to draw attention to the fact that the agency is acting and dealing with cases within a reasonable period of time. If I'm not mistaken, then we could read the report that most cases are being resolved within four months, if I'm not mistaken. Maybe shorter. Yeah, so the legal deadlines are absolutely respected. The number of items in the two mentioned years revolves around the same number, so just over 600 in 2015. 667 in 2016 641 items that have been solved, so we see that if we compare them to years ago, it's about to stand even though in 2014 it was slightly smaller, so the fluctuations of some exist. Of course, the agency is a very important element in promoting and protecting competition. The protection of competition and market behaviour is certainly in the interest of all entrepreneurs who participate in the market and their services and their goods but also of the consumer. So to ensure or prevent the creation of cartels, agreements, which are written by some unwritten consumers as the final consumables end up getting as low a price for service or high quality goods as possible. But it is also for entrepreneurs who can compete in that healthy market, in one competition to offer their goods or services without fear that there are some agreements or similar that they can be competitors, etc. I would also underline what Mr. Cerovac had already said, that in 2015 the first request for a penitentiary programme was received, that is something we consider positive, above all for the agency's work. He said a little bit more what that penance program meant, but what I'd like to say is, in some ways, making it easier for the agency to work. Since it is very difficult to prove whether there are any cartels, arrangements, if they are not in writing. In this case, when one of the market's subjects is in the penitentiary programme, they will get a minor sentence in exchange for detecting the existence of a cartel or a cardboard association. Therefore, it will make it easier for the agency to work on the one hand, and on the other hand, the agency will be able to prove the existence of such phenomena on the market. That's something that's good. I hope that in 2017 we will record more of these phenomena and that the work of the agency will not only be punished then. In fact, what I think is very positive is the fact that the agency doesn't just come as a body that punishes. So they're looking for the punished rather than working on prevention. In fact, the Agency's preventive action is what we consider extremely important and extremely positive. And that is that only the existence of the agency and its efficiency are a sort of deterrent from trying to make such market phenomena. Also, the purpose of the agency is not only to find and punish, but also to educate consumers, but also to educate market participants and therefore, educate them, encourage them to help the competition agency themselves. In addition to its regular activities, the Agency has also worked on market research, so sectoral market research, which has become a kind of brand of agencies, is primarily research into the retail market of small mixed goods, so, mostly food, drinks, hygiene products for households. It has somehow become a more public-recognizable activity of the agency. But also what is good and what the agency is doing is investigating other sectors of the market, so, for example in 2016, research into the mandatory insurance market for motor vehicles has concluded sectoral research into the oil market, etc. etc. So, all these activities of the agency are meant to guard the competition, as I said, for the benefit of end-users and for entrepreneurs who are on the market. What concerns us, and what it says in the report, is this very outflow of personnel. So, the Agency's activity is a very specific activity, as you yourself have now said in response to the replica, there is no educated staff on the labour market that could deal with these challenges. So you either have to create it yourself, or if it does, then I'm more often looking for a job in the real sector. This is unfortunately the pain of the entire public system. That is, the public sector, which is that because of relatively small salaries, those who are educated, who have a lot of experience and who have the knowledge that is at the price, usually seek work on in the real sector. I'll give you an example. IT experts needed to maintain the system of ministries, agencies, etc. We have in one bank, for example, for a job that would work at the ministry, for example, or an agency for which we would be paid, about 10,000 nets, in the bank will get 50, 60000 kuna. It's very clear, it's a clear choice these people have. So, in the future, it is certainly necessary to consider the staff, to consider encouraging and retaining expert staff at the agency. Not only in the agency, of course, but in the entire public sector. In any case, the SDP Club recognises the Agency's work on the protection of competition. I must also commend that agency that is really trying to keep us all in charge of her work... On the official e-mail, at least I'm receiving it, I believe all of you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So throughout the year, we've been periodically notified of all activities of the agency. It is certainly commendable and I would dare say that it should become a norm in the reporting and transparency of the work of most of our institutions. Anyway, we at the SDP Club appreciate your work and we'll support the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51922	Thank you, too. Domagoj Ivan Milosevic in front of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51923	Dear Vice President, Mr. Principal Cerovac, dear colleagues and colleagues. I begin by thanking you for this exhaustive report, and I will congratulate you on transparency in this, not only on these materials that we have obtained, which are really extensive and large, but also on your practice, that in fact all decisions and all reports are published on the web, the work programme. I think it can really be an example of how everything that is done in one agency can be shown to the public. Also in your report you mention so-called. 3 levels of transparency and public communication. I think that as far as you're concerned, you can feel free to be more in the media and more often in public because this is not about your promotion, but it's the only way we can actually build the institutions of this country, and this institution, in particular, the Competition Protection Agency is one of our important agencies in view of all the problems we face. In your report you state that in 2015 you solved 667 items and that is 5.2% more than in 2014 with 28 open cases. If I do a good count, such a rough one, it would mean that within 15 days, it actually remains what I think is not bad, given the speed of solving the subject otherwise, it's just so purely mathematical. And in 2016 your report says that you solved 641 cases and it was in 2016 on 31 December 19 open cases with 44 employees, so I'm going to make up for here and I'm not exactly a public sector employment supporter, though, but maybe in your agency you could make an exception and still let some employees, especially highly skilled people, given what you do. I commend your new approach to conducting unannounced searches with the aim of resolving suspicious situations. I'm sure of the benefit of everyone on the market, both customers and consumers and all citizens. I think we've witnessed over the past few years, and even a decade, two, many examples when the right fair competition provides primarily for citizens and entrepreneurs or the cheapest and most frequently cheaper and quality service. Your continuing task is and must not only be to monitor and combat the abuse of monopolistic positions, even when it comes to the state, and I personally don't see why if the state participates in the market would be in a privileged position on anyone, but also to the fight against the oligopoly that in some sectors slows down change, they take money both for entrepreneurs and citizens, we have some today. Since there is, in your jurisdiction, any public sector entity that participates directly or indirectly in the market, for example. units of local self-government, state bodies, other institutions or associations, I would like to stress that a public entity cannot be more equal, i.e., privileged towards entrepreneurs as well as the influence of that public entity on the market against entrepreneurs. I commend that you are aware of your educational roles, and I think that this is important in view of all the challenges in our economic progress, development and competition. I would like to mention your role in the analysis of the notification of the concentrations received by the European Commission, so we are talking about implementing the concentration of entrepreneurs from EU level in at least three Member States. Furthermore, you mentioned the sectoral market research itself, according to official duty, I think there is no reason why you should not do so in accordance with your own opinion or when it is in the public interest for individual sectors. I am pleased that, in cooperation with the European Commission, you pay particular attention to primary agricultural production and to farmers, and I stress this for at least two reasons. First of all, the position of Croatian farmers who are unfortunately weaker but also because of the amount of money spent in the Union and in the Republic of Croatia on agricultural incentives. In this respect, it is important to encourage the Commission to approach the problem of unfair commercial practices between food supply companies, thus protecting small food producers and traders from the small opposite of large and powerful traders. I also express my support for your initiative that the Agency for the Protection of Competitions is the holder of a new national regulation initiative that would regulate unfair commercial practices as well as the holder of implementing activities, and I am particularly pleased to hear that at this time when we hear the mention of federalisation encourages the adoption of such a regulation that will respect specific circumstances at national level. I am stuck with the eye that the European Commission has opened public consultations on giving greater powers to national competition authorities, which is also good and commendable and often missing in Croatia, it has urged stakeholders, especially medium and small entrepreneurs and their associations to join the whole process. Finally, I would like to emphasise what you yourself say, the role of the agency in promoting rights and competition policy. I think that is exactly how it is necessary and correct, given that the topic of competition was and will be one of the key topics for the Croatian future. Unfortunately, I still think there are a lot of those on all sides of society, which I also fear in this Croatian Parliament, there are those two around the competition. That is why your responsibility is greater, more important, I am sure that you yourself and all your employees are fully aware that maximum professionalism and responsibility are necessary to build on this institution that we are talking about today. HDZ will support your report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51924	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51925	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The denominator, dear fellow Milosevic, for two things, I answered the line, one is the public of work, the other is agriculture, but it would start first from the public of work. I agree that many of our institutions should have a greater presence in the media. Unfortunately, it's not always the institution's fault. That's what we always talk about when we're discussing the work of attorneys, in this case now and the Competition Protection Agency. I can't say that this is the case with the agency because I honestly didn't find that in the report, but I do know that many institutions are trying to be in the media through round tables, different events, press conferences, etc., however, how modest their echo is in the media. Not because of them, but because of the topics they are dealing with, that is, the interest of certain media in these topics. And I agree with you that we need to regulate the prevention of unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, absolutely, there you have touched some deeper problems. In our agriculture, the very fact that in the last 10 years, through the fostering of agriculture, we invested 30 billion kunas and that production fell by a third is alarming. Surely one of the reasons is precisely these unfair practices and especially now that all things are coming out about Agrokor, as one of the largest distributors of agricultural products in retail and the different practices that were happening there. But these aren't the only problems, and here today in Djakov, there was murder because of agricultural land, a warrior killed a cattleman, unfortunately. The victim's name is Tolusic, but he's not related to the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51926	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51927	Well, that's nice, I guess, because of the name that we get along so well. But yes, I mentioned that beating in public, so it was in terms of incentives, it wasn't meant as criticism and I agree with you, so we are aware that all times it's not about the subject, the attractiveness and the sales of some topic to be decent in the Croatian public but it doesn't change things. And we here at the Croatian Parliament and public service employees, agencies are invited to try to be as much in the media as possible, especially when these are important topics. I'm sure that time will come, and the media will be more and more interested in these topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51928	Thank you very much. Another replica of Mrs. Juricev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51929	Thank you, Vice President. So, fellow Milosevic, you were talking about the agency's work and the agency's relationship with the employers. Naima, I would talk here today about a specific subject and I suppose even that Mr. Cerovac himself is familiar with an object that refers to the town of Vodice and the solution that has been dropped from us. The city of Vodice, in accordance with the Law on the Communist Economy, made a decision on the municipal order and, among other things, had to regulate the way of advertising on its public surfaces. With regard to the fact that we are a well-known tourist destination and very gladly numerous and guests and boaters and similar travel agencies are happily advertised in Vodice, and from neighbouring municipalities, and we have concluded that there are also many, not employers, but caterers and certain employers who work and on black, that they advertised in Vodice, shared these flyers, threw flyers on public surfaces, of course our employers and our craftsmen and companies are paying for this waste of garbage, cleaning and the like, and we have had one unfair competition for our caterers and how similar it was done already in Istria in some units of local self-government, and we have managed to allow advertising on public surfaces only to our crafts and companies. Since an employer from the city of Biograd sued us by the agency, the agency has come to its opinion that it is essentially against the law even as they have stated counter-constitutionally. Here's your opinion. We still stand by that it is right to protect your craftsman, your caterer, because he is the one carrying the burden and costs and maintenance and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51930	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51931	... Good and successful like that, Vodice. [[Specially enabled.]] And as far as the case is concerned, I think it's the agency's job, so I wouldn't interfere with them, but somehow it seems to me that Croatia isn't that big, so if we're going to protect each and every one of our own small craftsmen then we won't get far. I think that competition and danger are somehow a little further beyond the borders, so a few times and quite far from Croatia's borders. But I'm certainly going to say one thing, and that's all of us here together in this assembly regardless of the political option invited and obliged to create the conditions that our entrepreneurs and craftsmen... do what we're talking about, which is that I can hire, that I can invest so that at the end of the day we can make profits and pay taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51932	Thank you very much. Now we've got Mr. Maras outside the SDP club, he's gone. And Mr. Bull in front of the Bridge, he's gone. Since the applicant has nothing to add, we conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51933	Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2015. The report shall be submitted to the Competition Protection Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2015 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 89 for, 3 abstentions and 4 against the conclusion proposed by the parent board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51956	And we move on to the next item of the agenda: - The report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2016. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Does the reporter want to give an additional explanation? Anna-Marie Petin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51957	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. The Board of Representatives and Appeals of the Croatian Assembly shall, once a year, comply with Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall submit a report on their work. The annual work of the 2016 Committee shall be based on information from written statements and complaints of citizens and associations who have addressed this committee and in order to protect their rights in the proceedings against authorities of the state administration and legal persons with public authority. The report is also based on contacts with citizens in personal arrivals and daily phone calls. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament during 2016 received and processed a total of 317 items. The number includes items from previous years. Of which, number 228 is new performances and 89 repeated performances and complaints and their additions from previous years from 2012 to 2015, which are addressed to the Committee in 2016. During the period during which the report was submitted for 2016, the Committee held four meetings to discuss the performances and complaints of characteristic content or to warn of adverse phenomena of broader significance and proposed to take the necessary measures to eliminate them. Four quarterly reports were also discussed at the committee meetings. As regards the handling of areas during 2016, a number of performances and complaints have been processed, namely 143 from the judiciary and administration, 52 from the area of residential, municipal and property legal issues, then 51 performances with social and health problems, and 31 from the area of family protection are other areas and other submissions, 30 from the field of labour and labour relations and other submissions by 10 subjects. In addition, during the reporting period with citizens other than written by regular mail, fax, e-mail or personal arrivals, the Committee also made direct phone calls, provided information and was consulted on the exercise of its rights in a total of 229 cases. In the area of justice and administration, a maximum number of representations and complaints have been received. The Committee received and processed a total of 143 cases. The citizens' complaints concerned the work of courts, the length of court proceedings before individual courts, concerned the dissatisfaction with the conduct of judicial proceedings, the illegality and bias in the work of individual judges, the dissatisfaction with the judgments taken. It also referred to the work and behaviour of individual judges or other court employees towards parties during the course of proceedings or other official actions. The Committee of Representatives and Appeals referred to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and sometimes hurried the signs. Furthermore, from this area, the Committee has received and processed the performances and complaints and repeated complaints from the jurisdiction of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, municipal and county attorneys and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime in Criminal and Civilian Administration cases and complaints against citizens on the work and conduct of municipal and county attorneys in which they have expressed dissatisfaction with the decisions of the competent state attorneys and in view of delaying the conduct of the State's decision. Citizens have also warned of the possible abuse of the position of people from the judiciary. Presentations and complaints were sent to the DORH, USKOK and the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia and requested evidence and sometimes referred to the rushes. Furthermore, from this area, the Committee also considered the performances of police officers involved in the conduct of police work. There have been complaints about the status rights of citizens. The Committee referred to the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Croatia after its discussion and sometimes referred to haste. In the past, the Committee also received and processed written statements and complaints related to the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and related to difficulties in determining the status of defenders, establishing the status of Croatian military invalid from the Homeland War, and warning of the length of procedures that determine their material rights to problems with the employment of defenders, children of deceased defenders and resident care, and of the difficult material situation and poverty. There have also been complaints and repeated complaints related to the implementation of the funds of citizens, salaries and pensions. The Committee also received some presentations of citizens in which they expressed pure dissatisfaction with the work and treatment of individuals in local and regional, or regional self-government bodies. Others are often complaints related to residential, municipal, and property legal issues. From this area, the Committee has received and processed 52 items and are related to the long-term duration of housing procedures, the resolution of housing requirements based on former tenants, the height and payment of protected rent for a state-owned apartment, the exercise of the right to purchase a state-owned apartment, and the award of city dwellings. The Committee also received complaints from citizens concerning the illegal construction of investors, the construction of a residential building on the public surface, reconstruction of buildings without the law of the prescribed documentation, etc. In some complaints addressed to the Committee in the field of municipal activity, citizens also warned of problems related to the lack of access to the water and electricity network in the settlement and the level of the price of the connection to the sewerage network, the construction of municipal infrastructure on the street, and the damage to ownership and difficulty of ownership. Within the framework of the property legal relations of citizens and associations, they addressed the board of performances, warned of a slow solution to the problem, and of renting for a state-owned apartment. Some citizens have referred proposals and comments and suggestions to the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law in the rental of apartments that the Committee forwarded to the competent treatment of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee addressed the presentations and complaints relating to this area to the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and the inspections of certain areas. Also state office for renovation and housing, state properties, DORH, Agricultural Land Agency and public administration offices in the county and the competent administrative body of the city of Zagreb. Furthermore, the Committee has received and processed 51 items in the area of pension and health insurance and social care and family protection. In their performances and complaints from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, citizens warned of the problems encountered in the exercise and application of pension rights related to age pension rights, prior to the age pension, related to the rights of compensation and payment of amounts for compensation to the pensioner, reduction of the amount of retirement pension, disability pension, family pension, family disability pension. The Committee of Citizens' Presentations referred to the competent treatment of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and requested evidence of the undertaking and sometimes rushed the evidence. Part of the complaint was from the field of social care and family protection. There were also complaints and related to the protection of the rights and interests of minor children. Some complaints from citizens in the field of health care referred to irregularities in the work of certain doctors of general practice and dissatisfaction with the work of doctors in retirement and the unprofessional work of medical staff towards patients in primary and secondary healthcare. For presentations and complaints, the Committee addressed the presentations of citizens related to the mentioned problems to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System and recommended to the competent social care centres of certain recommendations and addressed the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Demography, the family, youth and social policy of the Republic of Croatia and hurried because of the slowness in handling and advised citizens of the procedure for the exercise of their rights. Also from other areas in 2016, the Committee received and processed 31 performances and complaints and concerns consumers in which they complained and sought protection of their consumer rights for the quality of services provided by public service providers. All written statements and complaints in which natural and legal persons complained about the work and treatment of public service providers and others and requested the protection of their rights were forwarded to the committee for appropriate treatment, depending on their jurisdiction to the competent authorities, and to the competent ministries, depending on the content of the representation and the complaint. There were also complaints received from the field of labour and labour relations, namely 30 complaints which warned the complainants of possible infringements of labour rights in state and public services related to the labour and legal status of officials, the job schedule, second-place transfer, promotion and promotion in the public service, nepotism, pay gaps. Some complaints related to possible irregularities in the state service reception procedure due to non-compliance with the prescribed professional conditions. The Committee forwarded the presentations and complaints from this area to the competent authorities, i.e. the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, in HACOM, DORH, Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. In order to report possible illegalities and protect labour rights, citizens are referred to the competent inspection services and the competent ministries. They have also been informed that legal opinions and interpretations in the application of labour rules may be requested by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System of the Republic of Croatia and have been instructed that protection of injured labour rights may also be sought before the court. The report may also request from the Ministry of Labour and the pension system of the Republic of Croatia, and are suggested that protection of injured labour rights may also be sought before the court. During the reporting period, the Committee also received a small number of citizens' submissions, including a few ten who do not have the character of a play or of a complaint, in which no area was mentioned, nor was it seen in which area it was concerned. This was about personal opinions, personal considerations, and comments. For all these items, it was required to be completed. Finally, I would conclude that the number of written statements and complaints made by citizens and citizens in this reporting period is somewhat lower than in previous years. The Committee communicated with citizens who addressed phone calls with queries, were given information, and were consulted in the exercise of rights in 229 cases or subsequently referred to the submission of a written submission to the committee or to the competent authority. As regards day-to-day phone calls and citizen enquiries, there is a lack of confidence in the system, and complaints are from the field of social care, health care, illegal construction, and regarding enforcement, police actions and the order of the state's attorneys for not answering the relevant institutions. It remains the most objection to the work of the judiciary as well as the previous years. The dissatisfaction of the citizens with the work of the courts is evident, especially as regards the length of individual court proceedings, i.e. the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. In the field of working relations, the Committee was addressed by representatives of trade unions or workers, i.e. civil servants and substitutes for violation of collective contract rights, as well as infringements of public invitations to tender for admission to the state service. The Committee as a working body of the Croatian Parliament, except for the presentations of the committees or the Croatian Assembly, also works on the presentations by the President of the Croatian Parliament, as well as other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. A number of performances have also been anonymous, but it must be pointed out that all anonymous performances containing enough elements suggestive of the existence of illegal actions have been processed in the committee and the occurrences to be prevented or removed. In the case of silence, the Board referred the rushes to competent authorities which did not respond on an up-to-date basis or at all. The following should be pointed out that during this reporting period, out of the total of 317 subject-matters of written performances and complaints, the Committee received the evidence of the competent authorities by 292 or 92%. Citizens were also helped to achieve their rights and interests, i.e. in their favor. 57 cases have been solved or almost 18%. I hope that this report will serve as a guideline for the better work of our institutions, as citizens directly through this committee point to certain shortcomings or failures in work, and it is precisely citizens who do not know who to address precisely the possible failures or violations of their constitutional rights. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51958	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51959	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of the council member's club will support the committee's report. The only body that accepts representations and complaints and sends them to other competent authorities, and you've read it well. However, what I have reported for the replica is over 300 performances and complaints about the work of judicial authorities in the Republic of Croatia. Because when are the citizens talking to the board? When I can't protect my rights in a regular procedure and realize my interests, so the real question is why our judiciary is so slow, why it doesn't solve the legal deadlines. And the question to us as a legislative authority is whether we're giving tools to do so in terms of whether they have quality equipment, whether they're capacitated and whether the Fatal Authority is now teamed up. So here's an invitation for us to pick the Constitutional Judges as soon as possible so that all the Fatal Authorities in the Republic of Croatia can work to solve these cases because that's what citizens expect of us. And secondly, what are the state bodies and ministries that have not responded to the citizens that they must report to the committee? Well, it's inadmissible that state authorities, public authorities, are not responding to citizens, so they have to ask for the help of this committee. Well, here's a good thing for these bodies and these institutions to publish on Parliament's page, so let's make sure that these situations don't happen anymore so that citizens can exercise their rights, the right to information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51960	To select good constitutional judges. Here's your answer. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51961	Thank you, dear colleague, for your comments and suggestions. Well, that's exactly what I pointed out that this report must be a guideline for the better work of our institutions. It is that the vast majority of citizens who appear to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals appear to us for reasons because, first of all, they don't know who to turn to by certain things and then address our committee, we refer to them further. But also because they don't get timely information from other institutions. Here I hope that this report will encourage our institutions to work faster and do their job better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51962	Another replica, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51963	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can first commend this report, it's really quality and transparent and for every commendation. However, in your debate, or in the presentation of this report, you stated that 57 of these statements or complaints, or 17%, were resolved for the benefit of the citizens, and we can say that every 5th citizen was able to find satisfaction with your work. However, the report also states that some institutions did not respond at all on an up-to-date basis or at all, or that you sent one to 10 rushes. I think it's a devastating piece of information because in the end they all come to give their annual reports. So here I'm wondering if you might be talking about someone not wanting to cooperate sending a report to a higher level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51964	Thank you. I didn't see, will you answer and I guess you will, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51965	Well, here's my thanks for your question. Well, first of all, I have to say that this almost 18% of our citizens' performances have been dealt with positively. When we say positive, so here's a specific case when certain citizens turned to them because they felt that they had been denied or had no social rights and social welfare until then, and they felt that the conditions had been met, and then we, as a committee, responded and sent a request and a welfare centre to other institutions and then they realized that there were really conditions for obtaining social compensation. So in that sense or when we've solved it means, whether it's a one-time aid or another, the requirements in that sense have been solved almost 18% positive. As for all these other meanings of the concepts, I must point out that the Committee reacted and sent each, so each case was manifested and sent enquiries to the institutions that they were manifested in which the case was just given. And as for sending it to a higher instance, since this is a 92% percentage that we have received a response to certain concepts although with a few warnings I think this is a good percentage and it is some of the things that have started, say, at the end of 2016, so they have not yet been processed in 2017, but I have to say that here is the insistence and the question of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals that the vast majority of the institutions have responded. And what was introduced, so we demanded that institutions be manifested not only directly by foreigners but also by the board itself so that we would then have insight into the full state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51966	Thank you. In front of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA", Mr. Bunjac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51967	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report from the Committee on Citizens' Presentations and Appeals. I believe you've all worked more or less with that committee. We have also cooperated with the Living Wall Club and we must say that this committee is doing its job well, that they always react spotlessly, so they are indeed at the service and, as we can see, they also have certain successes. It is pointed out here that they may not have enough solved cases. However, it is very important to point out that there are very objective difficulties. Let's just say it shocks me that the bodies of the state administration don't want to respond to the council committee. Even after sending out the rushes, it's really amazing to me. Here we have in this report a list of those who do not correspond: Croatian Institute of Pension Insurance, Ministry of Science and Education, Ministry of Demography, Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration, Ministry of Civil Engineering, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Economy, Civil Engineering, Justice, MUP, DORH, FINA, State Property, Agency for Agricultural Land, Centre for Social Care, Vodnjan, City of Vodice, Municipality of Sveti Lovrec, Advocate for Persons with Disabilities, etc. So how is it possible that the bodies, the ministries that are subordinated to the Parliament, who are elected by the Parliament, would not correspond to the Assembly's committee? This is truly amazing to me, and it only shows how arrogant and arrogant the Croatian public administration, or the bodies of the political government, has prevailed. If the Assembly Committee does not respond, then we can only ask ourselves what right they have “ordinary, ” in fact they should all be the same who come looking for their rights in those same bodies. We listen to examples that I don't know, individual bodies of the state administration don't respond to people's e-mails for a year and you can't get them on the phone, that you can't come to a meeting, that it's always tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the second week. And then it's no wonder they have so much to do, that Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals because bitter citizens don't know who to turn to anymore, so they come directly to the Parliament. As far as these performances and complaints are concerned, I would like to point out that in this analysis almost half of the cases reported by citizens refer to the judiciary and the administration. And it is indeed a symptomatic picture of Croatian society as a whole, which is that citizens do not trust in the judiciary. And I would like to emphasise it for the simple reason that in the judiciary in the Croatian Parliament there is no discussion at all, about the DORH. We have these points on the agenda of the DRH report and the judiciary since the beginning of this assembly, so now for 13 months and as the President of the Parliament draws up the agenda, it will not be discussed for the next 3 years because it always puts it as the last point. Wooden cultures, zoos are immediately debated, and these topics that are crucial for the healing of Croatian society are systematically and deliberately ignored. Just look at the July analysis of the official, that 70% of Croatian citizens do not trust the judiciary, that 64% of Croatian citizens think that the judiciary is dependent on politics and that 93% of Croatian citizens think that there are privileged citizens. Here's what I'm wondering, if there are these privileged citizens and that's a general consensus on what your privileged citizens are, and are we maybe some of us here these privileged citizens? And what do we do to make this committee work better or a little less? I would like to point out that among other things, I do not know if you are following, and probably following public opinion research, the Assembly as the body of the administration in the Republic of Croatia is very, very badly rated. Much worse than the President's office, much worse than the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The rating is below 2, average rating. And then we must really imagine such reports whether, therefore, only responsibility and team not responding or perhaps in relation to ourselves and ourselves who are not working hard enough and ourselves may not be sufficiently appreciated and we do not use all the tools we have in our hands to protect the citizens and that is exactly what the citizens expect of us, they are primarily expecting to be protected by the legislative framework because the Croatian Parliament is passing laws. I would like to remind you that according to a general principle accepted in international court practice, any trial that lasts longer than 5 years constitutes a violation of human rights. And here come the citizens who are tried for 15, I don't know 20, 25, and I can't get my justice out. It's a very serious and alarming warning. And that is why I think that this report that we have heard today, the Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals should be very well pictured and that we should help both the Committee and the Parliament and the Society and the Ministries in general to restore their dignity and that, in the future, these reports seem less dramatic and much more favourable to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51968	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51969	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Bunjac, you pointed out one important moment regarding the work of this committee and the responsibility of all of us to actually get answers, so I'm interested in what your experiences are and how do we do so when the bodies of the state government, the ministry, ministers, do not answer any parliamentary questions within 30 days but pass months before we get an answer and we never get any questions? What's your experience?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51970	I assume you want to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51971	Frankly, Agent Jovanovic, I have always dreamed of living in a country that is a model of order, work, responsibility, in which citizens can exercise their rights within a kind of fast deadline, without a lot of waiting, I have had experience with people who have lived and worked, for example, in some developed Western states, there such issues are resolved within 48 hours. You today also have a modern technique and means and different means of communication, there is no waiting there. Here we are, so you parliamentary representative, elected by the people, representative of the people, the ministry does not want to answer your parliamentary question. Now imagine it. What disrespect, scandalous. And then how come these poor citizens who come to the Board of Representatives and Appeals, what made them come here anyway? I believe that in fact 90% of citizens don't even know that this board exists, maybe now they find out if they're watching TV, and then they'll turn around. Every day, at the door of the Parliament, there are people who complain about the public administration and the judiciary who are desperate because they don't know who to turn to anymore. Then when I pass or our secretaries pass those questions on, then as you say, you can't get an answer. Or you get a response like that that has nothing to do with what you're asking. Ask the question and you get the answer to the pear and apples. You ask one question, you get another answer. Which means that even when those bodies of the state administration fit they didn't even understand what you were asking or trying to understand. And it has to change urgently. Among other things, we have seen the last days of citizens' e-mails being read and responded to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51972	Thank you, Mr. Bunzac. I must say, I agree with you, especially with regard to this part of the MPs who are not getting an answer from the ministers, and I can tell you that this has been going on for 25 years. So, it may not be as urgent to change as you say, but at least let it change slowly. Mr. Ronko in front of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51973	My colleagues and colleagues. There's a report in front of us. There is no need to repeat what we already have, as the predecessors have said or what I have already said in this comprehensive report, because in 2016 I have led the board. But here's what I'm going to have to stand up for in defense of some facts, so one of them would have been, someone asked if the board was talking to higher things because of some kind of trouble or something. So I think we should know in this House that the Committee is the only higher authority it has is the Croatian Parliament. And he can't speak to anyone else, and he can't speak to anyone anymore. It is also mentioned that we are not being shown by the bodies that we have sent for an obvious request. I've run that board, I've got experience. And I can only say maybe you missed the information that for the 317 items we had in 2016, 292 items came from a neat indication. That's kind of 92.11%. I might even, come on, I won't say it, but I'd really say they did it right and right and good and good. You have a situation, there has been mentioning that the biggest problem in the judiciary. Yes, 143 cases of these 317 or 45% carry a segment of justice and administration. But we need to know that there is also the biggest problem for citizens to address us most because of the length of court proceedings. Because of those problems that can't be solved that easily. So they say the question of citizenship, so temporary and permanent stay, so people are a little impatient, so they don't have some rights, so they try to push through, or through this board do something more or come up with something they think they can. So I would stand in defense this time, I say those institutions, because I was more than happy in 2016. And that 57 cases have been positively resolved, i.e. in 57 cases, people have achieved their right by the committee's activity, not in the sense of how to say summarum suspicion, but in the sense that we have reacted spotily, and at that rate we have achieved their rights. So I said that what my colleague brought out here, I wouldn't do it again. I'd say something like this. I'd only say two things. One is that in that period we have achieved a 4 times greater result than the predecessor or the predecessors, however you will. Someone might call it 400%. And secondly, I would like to say posthumously, I am posthumously in front of the club to inform you that the SDP club will accept this report. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51974	Thank you very much, Mr. Ronko. Mr. Cicak in front of the HDZ counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51975	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The annual report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament for 2016 is before you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, 317 cases were received in 2016, of which 228 were new performances and 89 repeated performances and complaints and their additions from previous years from 2012 to 2015. Most of the performances and complaints relate to the work of the judiciary and administrations, which 143, residential, municipal and property legal issues of 52, social, health and family protection issues, 51 of them, other areas of 31, individual complaints of citizens to provide public services. Work and working relations of 30, other submissions of 10, citizens' comments on daily political events, neither representations nor complaints. Let me briefly remind you of the importance of the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals which it does, receives complaints and presentations, even when the Croatian Parliament does not sit. This institute of performances, i.e. complaints, enables citizens to warn of possible failures, errors of inaccuracies and violations of constitutional rights by the state of government, bodies of units of local, regional self-government and legal persons with public authority from professional services. It should be noted that the expectations of citizens by this committee are quite large, and business powers are limited, that is, prescribed in Art.107. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It is also important for the public to say and point out that for the sake of providing more quality information and responding to requests, the committee is available and communicates with citizens either telephone, fax, e-mail or personal contacts. Of that, there were 229 contacts with citizens. All the statements and complaints of natural or legal persons addressed to the Committee for that period have been processed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, recorded, verified, have been verified on the basis of the content sent to the competent authorities for treatment, which has been notified to the applicants of the presentations, complaints within 30 days. During this period during which the report of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals related, four meetings were held to discuss the performances and complaints of the characteristic content. It has been warned of adverse phenomena of broader significance and has proposed to take concrete measures to eliminate them. If we compare the number of processed objects compared to 2013 when there were 421 data for 2016 we see that it is less than 174 and 65%, respectively. The reason for the drop in the number of cases is because of the effectiveness of the work of the Committee itself which has resolved most of the cases from previous years from 2012-2015. In the very structure of the case, the biggest drop was recorded in the area of pension and health insurance, social care and family protection, i.e. in the housing sector and property legal issue. The Committee has made it possible for all citizens who have asked to take their problems orally and then to submit to them a written submission to the Committee or to the competent authority. In the area of justice and administration, which stems from this report, a shift has been recorded, as the number of cases is being reduced, however, citizens continue to complain about the length of individual court proceedings, abuse of positions and powers, the quality and effectiveness of the work of the State's attorney, i.e. infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. This report in the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals can read how repeated performances and complaints in most cases come when citizens are unhappy with the outcome of the resolution and the actions taken and the answers to the competent authorities and consider this to be the reason for the submission of those statements and complaints. It should be commended for the work of a committee that is measurable and read in that reporting period, where 317 cases, written performances and complaints by citizens are processed, the committee should close the public's bodies to 292 cases or 92.11%. Until the conclusion of this report in February 2017, citizens were helped to achieve their rights and interests, i.e. 57 yarns or 17.98% were solved for their benefit. In the case of silence, the administrations referred rushes to competent authorities which did not respond on an up-to-date basis or in general for about 50 cases from 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. On a monthly basis, the Committee sent some 50 letters to the competent authorities, a rush from 1, 2, 3 to 10, as set out in the final examinations. Finally, the 2016 report of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals shows that citizens are aware of their rights and are believed to be able to contact the Croatian Parliament with full confidence as to whether their rights are not respected, or that they are discriminated against on the basis of sex, age, education and political belief. Citizens rightly require more transparency and awareness in the work of the body of local, regional, regional self-government. The Committee shall, at its meetings, allow the applicants to present their concerns, point out to the Assembly that violations of the law and other harmful occurrences of broader meaning, further, at its meetings, which shall draw conclusions on the presentations which it proposes to the competent institutions of measures to remove these irregularities. For these reasons, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51976	Thank you, too. Mr. Hajdukovic, you can give the replica or come directly here, so by the way say what you mean, how do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51977	It would be a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51978	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51979	Thank you, Vice President. Namely, I cannot agree with you colleagues when you say that the citizens who address this committee are mainly motivated by the dissatisfaction with the decisions that certain bodies of public administration and courts or similar decisions make. I've been a board member for four years, since 2011-2015, and I'm going to tell you that they're being chased by something completely different, dear colleague, it's desperate. Desperate when in many situations, of course there is what you say, you don't say, but obviously I can't solve my problem. It's taking too long, what stories we've heard, that you really imagine, from fraud, from long-term trials, before courts, and when I say long-term, I mean 10 years and more. For 10 years. Even to the point where a prosecutor or prosecutor gets sick, he dies in the meantime, so that's terrible stories. It makes them desperate colleagues, not pleasure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51980	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51981	Well, I'm sure this committee, which I've been a member of for a year, shows that there are significant shifts since 2013 when you were a member to this day. But our Board of Representatives and Appeals cannot assume the role of other bodies but must remain in the ministries, in the courts. So I think the board's done a good job in the last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51982	Thank you. Now we have individual debates. Mr. Maras is gone. Like I said, Mr. Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll try to be brief. I'd actually start at the end, from this if the institutions didn't respond in time. As far as I know, the institution's response to the committee's enquiries is about 92%. I estimate that it is good, although it is of course not good that some institutions are not advertised, especially when it comes to MPs and their issues. Here I am waiting for an answer longer than three, four months and more. So, respected vice presidents of the Committee, colleagues and colleagues, this is indeed a unique committee and has a truly unique role. This is a committee that directly communicates with citizens, whose citizens are here when they really exhaust all the possibilities, when they think they don't have any other way of solving their problems. And the role of this committee, unfortunately I have to say, is to find out sometimes the shoulder to cry on. Because what the Committee can do is send a rush, it can warn about a particular problem, a particular public administration body, whether it's the Ministry, the Court, any other body, agencies, institutions, etc. But if it can really help, I like to believe that rushes help, to help these memos, but I'm afraid experience teaches me that's not always the case. It is good that, during the last amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we have introduced the obligation to submit the Committee's report precisely because of the specificity of the Committee, because of the greater importance of the Committee in terms of public exposure, that our citizens know that this Committee exists, that they know that they can address it, should they address it if they really think they have a problem that cannot be solved by the usual means. So I welcome the fact that we're discussing it in the tide, even though it's already in this late hour, but I say better than ever. So as I said, I was a member from 2011 to 2015, the stories I heard, the problems my fellow citizens faced were really amazing. So like I said from fraud, long-term proceedings, police violence, I don't know what to tell you. I used to feel really bad after the session and ask if it really happened in my country, if there are such cases, if it's possible that one trial in front of a court could be conducted for 15, 16, 17 years. And not just any process, a process that gives you solutions, life solutions that are very important to you, for example the housing issue, the status issue, the income question, etc., etc. But what I want to share with you, and with that I will end up with, is that the greatest dissatisfaction among citizens exists in the length of proceedings before judicial authorities and unequal judicial practices. So that's what's causing at least in my experience so far, and as I can see from this report still, which is causing the biggest, biggest complaints. This has to be our emergency call. It is just like the Attorney General's report, the report of this Committee is a kind of lacmus paper that tells us as an indicator of how our institutions function, how our citizens' problems are solved and how judicial practice, unequal court practice and long-term court proceedings are that these are one of the burning problems of the Republic of Croatia. We, as a legislative body, must take care of it. There's been a lot of talk about it and some former ministers, and here's the current one about how we can even the case law. I'm just inviting the authorities to do it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51984	Thank you. Comrade Petin, would you like to add something to the end? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51985	Report on the work of the 2016 Presentations and Appeals Committee. The applicant shall be the Board of Representatives and Appeals. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The 2016 report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals shall be adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 94 for and one against the accepted report in the text of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51986	We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Annual Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments, HAMAG-BICRO for 2016 The applicant of the Act is the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment under Article 15. A law to encourage the development of a small economy. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. The government delivered an opinion. Does the representative, or the applicant, want to give an additional explanation? Here is Mr. Vjeran Vrbanec, president of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51987	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In front of you is the Annual Work Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments, or the shortened HAMAG-BICRO for 2016 and it includes all the key activities of HAMAG-BICRO as follows. So financial instruments under which we include guarantees, loans and risk capital instruments without... support the strengthening of end-user capacity and the specific control of the dedicated use of funds and the financial report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are instruments that are also programmes implemented in three basic sectors of the agency. So let's start in order, with guarantees as one of the most important instruments by which the Croatian Agency for Small Economy is known and which it actually draws more... Since '94. A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2016, therefore, new financial instruments were approved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in view of and signed a financing agreement where HAMAG Bicro was authorised to actually manage EUR 150 million of European funds, i.e. in particular 105 million of European funds, 45 million euros by national funds intended for the introduction of new financial instruments. In particular, five new financial instruments, so we are talking about ESIF individual guarantees, ESIF limited guarantees, micro-investment loans, micro-loans for crafts and small investment loans. In addition, the agency continued to issue guarantees for business loans and for old programmes since the new guarantee schemes were not covered by all the situations that entrepreneurs needed and, among other things, the process of introducing these programmes has a certain life course and it took some time for them to be realised in reality, in fact. So, on the basis of the ESIF financial guarantees, therefore individual guarantees, we have chosen 15 financial institutions, 14 banks and one Leasing company with which the signing of the contract has been extended throughout 2016 and we have concluded the last contract with PBZ in March 2017, today this programme is absolutely operational. At the same time, we also started to issue ESIF micro-small loans which proved to be one of the more important instruments for financing the small economy. In terms of guarantees, we can say that HAMAG Bicro received 324 guarantee applications in 2016 and received 220, and issued 217 of these remaining three were issued in January 2017. Taking into account some kind of analysis, it is evident that a certain percentage, and not a small, actually 40% interest in the guarantee, has fallen, but on the other hand there have been funds, i.e. public calls that finance corporate activities by grants. At the same time, micro-small loans have also occurred at interest rates of 0.5 to 1% and we believe that in this way a certain compensation has been made so that the intensity of work in this sector that realizes the financial instrument has not actually fallen, and moreover, in 2017 it is visible, and we will see it by year, it is already at this point, 1. 10th that we've already exceeded the 2015 data by 25%. Grant support is one of the instruments being implemented in the grants sector, so it is one of the most recent sectors in the agency that was set up to take over processes and contracted or valued in due time, and in particular the implementation of all those public calls issued by the economy's competent ministry at certain paces. Thus, 9 public calls were made in 2016 where HAMAG Bicro took part in this sector of grants support as an intermediate body of the second level in the implementation phases, so 69 projects totalling €1.2 billion were completed in 2016. The average value of one contract was 17.7 million kuna and by the end of the year 82 million kuna of grants were paid. The sector has worked intensively and worked and continued working on the education of entrepreneurs, so it does not take a month for some information or implementation workshops to inform entrepreneurs and consultants about the ways in which contracts are concluded with the ministry and the basis of which is the withdrawal of funds for their entrepreneurial loans as a form... In the third sector, therefore, in the sector for development and support of users, it is a sector which is the only one of the two sectors that is not accredited to implement and control funds from European funds, and that is because what remains as a third sector as a user sector, it means that it appears as such on certain public calls as a user, so that at the moment HAMAG Bicro is in that part, a public call user is worth 10m euros and serves to develop and support and specialise corporate complete institutions that we have throughout Croatia, in every county and in all major cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The control of the dedicated use of funds, given that it is public funds, we are obliged to work, of course, and the control of the use of purpose, in the grant sector, is one of the operations that is an integral part of their business, and what is interesting or what interests the public is the payment at the protested guarantees. Thus, during 2016, millions and 300,000 kunas of outstanding claims related to the regressive claims were charged, HAMAG Bicro from the basis of the guarantees paid for those loans which unfortunately defolted. At the end of the financial report, the budget of HAMAG Bicra in 2016 amounted to 406 million kuna. The total value of the asset means the value of the asset HAMAG Bicra on 31. The 12th was 608 million kuna. We made total revenue of 417 million and total expenditure, expenditure of 416 million kuna. Excess revenue has been achieved in the amount of a million and 300. And so it's a dazzling display of what's in front of you on some 90 pages. Well, if there are any questions, the need for discussion, I stand in position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51988	Mr. Jovanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51989	Thank you very much. So I have one question about the big mid-East European business centre that stands, can you tell us more about it, why it stands, and when will the final part of that one of the very important projects for promotion and entrepreneurship and innovation and all of those elements that are related to smart specialisation and investment development in Croatia start?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51990	Would you like an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51991	I appreciate the question. Maybe it's the wrong address for this. What I know about... The purpose of this blade is the educational purpose for Southeast European countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as I know, he's in the final stage of construction, which will be his purpose. So, the purpose isn't to move in with some agency. The purposes are quite different, but here for perhaps the Ministry of Economy better address to ask such a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51992	Thank you very much. On behalf of Mrs Ivana Ninčević Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51993	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Companions of MPs and MPs, president of HAMAG's administration. Here we are in this late hour discussing the subject of a small economy. In fact, it's about a subject that's always, but it's always the first point of all election programs. So, local, regional, to parliamentary elections. However, when we move from these words to action, then we face this reality, which is that we are discussing a small economy in front of neither 10 MPs, and a small economy is actually a pillar of economy and development, not only of Croatia but of all countries in Europe and the world, and it is not a very small problem to Google and look at what these are, or what are the conditions, which are the measures of tax and reform. All countries that were in the same crisis as us, made for their entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and that is precisely why they came to the stage of developed countries. But what makes me extremely happy is that we have this point this week. Especially after I called for a break from this booth on Friday and warned about all the problems inside and on the route between HAMAG BICRO and the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. So I'll take the turn. Last year, so 2016 is a tender for e-impulse, so a tender for small entrepreneurs, which was, I think, 11.9. if I'm not mistaken. Those applications that arrive at the Ministry of Economy must actually be forwarded to HAMAG BICRO for evaluation. A few months ago, I think five months ago, right here when your report was on HAMAG for 2015. You have already broken deadlines, i.e., i know because clients are getting from the stages of the notification at which they are, but at that time it was known that the deadlines will not be within the specified one. So I asked you here, what's going on about the application and whether they'll be within deadlines. You didn't give me an answer, so I asked Minister Dalic a parliamentary question. In that response, actually one very important information, which is that the applications from the day they were admitted to the ministry, until the day they were forwarded to HAMAG were 84 days ago. So for more than 3 months, these applications literally stood in some hallway and collected dust. So I'm wondering if you're like the president of the board, and you knew when the contest was called, did you react to it, when and how? Because I'm sure if you cared about small entrepreneurs, and you know that the administration is doing this evaluation process, then you had to compare that deadline for forwarding documents to more than 3 months. Have you thought about it at that point, that it's these little entrepreneurs, who are in the application, and yet I'm speaking from experience, because for five, six years now, how many times there is an impulse I've had a series of approved and implemented projects. So, these entrepreneurs were in charge of the funds they were looking for, guarantees that they would hire 2 to 3 people. Does it not matter to us in Croatia that people are employed? No, it's normal for us to wait four months. And the fact that four months ago, two, three people could have been hired, somewhere five per application. The applications were 2099, so obviously we don't care about reducing the number of unemployed. Why should we care anyway, when the unemployment records, he takes them all from these statistics and criteria. We're not looking at the actual number of employees, but we're looking at the number of people who didn't make it to HZZ and they're not being reported, or they're not in the unemployment records. Let's go back to the e-mpulse. After the questions I asked Minister Dalic, concerning this forwarding of HAMAG BICRO, the stories started, that one of the reasons why the project evaluation deadline was that long was that the projects worth 250 million kuna were evaluated by people who were on vocational training, SORs. So this is information that is circulating, that is, coming out of the competent agencies and the ministry. However, it became more serious at the moment that it came to the media. No matter what I warn you about it often in the Parliament. So the media asked the ministry if it was true, that a report has arrived on project evaluation by people who are on vocational training, to which the ministry has responded that an anonymous application has arrived. And that's it. I have asked, of course, parliamentary questions and the minister and one, the other and the Prime Minister, precisely with details of the anonymous application, the basis of what protection is and how it arrived, so I hope we don't have to wait 30 days for this deadline, and that you will answer me today exactly what happened with that anonymous application. Is it really possible that within the HAMAG, therefore, the 250 million kuna project was evaluated by persons on vocational training. Furthermore, except that these project proposals waited 84 days in some hallway, archives, where you already hold it, after people started getting results two weeks ago, or notice that they were rejected or accepted. And not to mention that some 59-point bounces where 60 were actually for passage, i.e. funds received. That point or two that was missing actually has no criteria, it's kind of a free appraisal. And now, if we consider that it was evaluated by people who are on vocational training, then the whole competition is actually at stake. What's interesting is that many people who applied to this contest have been sending complaints that they haven't responded to in 40 days. Well, I'm curious, I actually have a series of questions here, and I'd really like you as chairman of the HAMAG administration to take advantage of this five-minute opportunity on behalf of the proposer so you can come behind me and answer all these questions. What if any irregularities in HAMAG's behaviour led to the fact that entrepreneurs were damaged and did not receive funds? Noting that the MPs are probably not familiar with these reports. So entrepreneurs have to propose their plan of activity and have to say so to focus on this application because certain things can be determined and bought equipment or what they already need only after the application or after they receive notice of the results of that competition. Secondly, if that's true how you intend to do it, what's your plan to correct it, have you evaluated all the applicants since there is also some difference in the amount of funds so far approved and which was actually intended? How many total complaints have been received from the entrepreneurs? How many complaints have you adopted and how many complaints have you rejected? What time did you solve all the complaints? And I'm asking you individually if it's possible for every complaint as many days as it takes for you to answer her. And I think one of the important questions, given that I am very often with entrepreneurs on the ground, so I can tell you firsthand whether you have provided funds for lawsuits that will follow in view of the silence of the administration in handling complaints for months almost since your entrepreneurs are already gathering, therefore, and unfortunately will be forced to take that step. And, of course, according to that question, are these complaints actually as well as project proposals stood in some hallway for months without anyone looking at them? All of this is actually a very sad one, and I don't know if it's any more tragic or sad truth that small entrepreneurs, so those who should be, say again the pillar of economic development in this country, we're actually simply holding as irrelevant. It does not matter to us that they will hire people if they get results for these funds or that they will go into the proposed activity plan that they applied for in the competition, we are not interested in hiring people at all. And secondly, when we look at the situation and how fast the big business problems are solved, it's not really worth being a small businessman in this country at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51994	Thank you, too. Here's one-third of the representatives present have decided to replicate. It's Mr. Bull's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51995	Thank you very much. You say colleagues have been collecting dust for months, so it was 250 million kuna, you said the grades were giving meaning to people who were, i.e. Those who have been trained, you say they are for points or two that they have not received any arguments entrepreneurs at all. So this whole system is obviously not an interest, you said yourself that people are hired or that these 250 million kunas are obviously where the money is, that's the first question, where that 250 million kuna is, that's the basic question. At the same time as she bought, it means dust in the halls. Or indeed HAMAG is holding, whether HAMAG is holding those of the city's mayors of Split, Mr. Opara and Mr. Budisha, come on young, have a good trip. If these are credible, and I believe they are because you've been asking questions, you don't get answers and you don't get entrepreneurs who will sue and where the state will be damaged. Here is the fact that the head of the administration obviously had to defuse largely because this is against the interests of jobs and against the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Because of this 250 million just how many people have to go to Ireland, Germany or I don't know where. Or perhaps you too, sir, hold on, is Mr. Budishina, the adviser from Opara Mr. Budisha's statements happy way for you who wish to go to another country. So here, your one comment on this where the money is the basic question? What tycoon, where did they end up, what holes do they patch? It's funny, that's funny, to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51996	Mrs. Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51997	I hope the money really doesn't end up somewhere third, but that it exists, that it's there, that it's in the account and that it will be paid to the entrepreneurs. But the fact is, in fact, the facts are what we're saying, which is that entrepreneurs have waited 84 days and are still waiting, so they haven't yet, yet not a single contract has been signed. The fact is there's been an application, and here we're trying to figure out what, what, what. All we know is that the application arrived at the expense of the people who were on the expert, who evaluated 250 million kuna worth of projects. Well, I hope we get those answers today so we don't have to wait these 30 days for the parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51998	Thank you, too. Mr. Horvat has another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u51999	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've been writing down all the wrong and bad information that you've given in your presentation, including in these replicas, including my colleague Bulj, and I have to go back to last night's debate where, somehow, only you and I have had the impression that everything else was less important because it wasn't really in the Parliament. So remember, please e-impulse was, unlike in 2015 in 2016, 250 million kuna, European money. For the first time, one project of this type was made only for micro and small entrepreneurs who were evaluated in only 3 phases because we changed the common national rules and, unlike 2015, when people gave up the application, when we had 200 applications throughout the year and 17 contracts produced almost 3,000 applications. Someone who told you that the apps were standing and collecting dust is bad. The money is at the expense of the Ministry of Economy, and it's going to split up as soon as it's resolved positively, I'm sure more than 60% of these applications. But my question is to each other whether your colleagues know how to evaluate these offers and whether or not I would ask you to tell the public, in this source of information that is the first stage and how to valorize the completeness of the documentation that people have done on vocational training and are part of the administrative check and the first phase... Thank you, thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52000	No, don't get up, Mrs. Nincevic. First is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52001	Dear Vice President, a colleague has injured Article 232. The Rules of Procedure and 238, he did not stick to the subject of the agenda and demeaning other MPs when he said only last night that he and Mr. Bulj were discussing, there were even more people who discussed the HERA in particular, so here is the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52002	I honestly didn't understand, but I agree. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52003	Thank you. You said that the person who gave me the information that the entrepreneurs waited 84 days was very bad. Well, I set up... I'm running out of time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder Radin: Please, you can't, no, no, you'll have a chance anyway.]] So, I asked MP Dalic how much, or from the day of the application of project proposals to the day of forwarding to HAMAG, how long has it been? And she answered me nicely, when we added up, for 84 days. Now you tell me, if they weren't collecting dust maybe they were covered in chain, I apologize, so they didn't collect dust. So 84 days stood in a box and no one touched them, and that's normal for you. Now, let's go back to the process now. I know very well the stages, I participated, I participated before you came as Minister in a lot of processes and on working groups and on the subject, meaning the application of the tender itself. Now, administratively, we're not talking about the administrative phase, the first phase they have to go through, but I'm talking about the information that goes around that the SORs have graded complete applications, I'm just looking for an answer to that question. And if they're not Sor's, then what's the basis for the application? So I don't know what the problem is if I as an agent want to know the answer to that question, perfectly normal. So deny me, say you're wrong, but no one answers. I kept the break, it was in the media, and now I'm happy that the gentleman is here so I can finally ask him, I wanted to ask him that he didn't come here because I'm interested, because I want to know what it is, I sent a parliamentary question, I just want to know if it's true that everything is late because of an anonymous application, which is an anonymous application, who evaluates and how it evaluates and what actually happens there, and do we really have that money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52004	Thank you, too. Next replica, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52005	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Members, I'm actually joining in on the questions you asked. Namely, that information also came to me, and I'm, I can say, consterned. So if the SORs are evaluating, if they're in anything in this very, very complex process more than the administration itself and those basic jobs that need to be done, then this is, this might be for someone's resignations. My colleague Bulj asked the eternal question where is the money and the eternal answer I don't know. Now they're joking aside. Unfortunately, this isn't the only competition that's not going well. We know and we talked before today about the need for legal certainty. When you're an entrepreneur, when you're an employer, when you're on the market, time is money, 84 days is a lot of time. You still don't know if that money you have, you don't have, how you're going to plan money flows, how you're going to finance your company's business, etc., these are very important things where people are in suspense all this time, 84 days, it's almost a third of the year. I'll draw your attention to just one more contest, say in agriculture, to a grant to invest in an infrastructure where they intertwine, say, a first-degree and a second-degree body. A first-degree body that only needs to determine whether or not someone satisfies the proposition of the competition is combing some of the applications. Why, for God's sake, when the second-degree body is a ministry that solves complaints? On the other hand, the ministry said some 22 complaints of 150, only those 22 were resolved, we do not know if it is on the final list and whether some complaints that do not meet the conditions or which the ministry refused. So total chaos, total chaos. Even as much as there can be more serious repercussions to lose the European money that comes to us precisely because of this intransparency. Well, if this isn't transparent, then I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52006	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ninčević-Lesandric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52007	I agree with all that you've listed, but here it is precisely about a competition that is closely related to HAMAG, since they are evaluating project proposals. But what I'm trying to make people understand, and I've already said it in the presentation, which is that people who apply to this competition in their application, applications, forms, call it what you want, in order to get the funds they have to write down how many employees they're going to increase after they get these funds. So is it clear to us that we haven't waited 84 days for us to actually have at least 3,000 employees now, minimum because they're two, three, somewhere and five employees. So we don't care at all about how many people each company has, and we're going to say that's a minimum of 3,000 people, we don't care. It's all blooming, so what's it got to do with standing on the desk a little bit longer. That's what this is about. So aside from all this that's non-transparent, is, it's not good, it's not, anonymous reporting is late, all of it, but watch out for my country that has a high unemployment rate, we have an opportunity, and here's a colleague that we have money. So we have money and we don't want to hire people. Well, we're not normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52008	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52009	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Ninčević Lesandric, therefore, I agree with you, it is one of the important things in our society and in the country is to encourage small and medium entrepreneurship. A mantra has been talking about strategic investments lately, that's for a long time, how these investments will lead us forward. I'm one of those people who believes it won't be like that, that only a small and medium-sized enterprise can do that. To do that, it takes this money we have, and now we see that we have money and give it to those to whom, or lend it to those who need it. You see this event really happened in Germany, one car house, after the old boss left work, and he gave his son and his son an estimate that it might be cheaper to answer a student's phone than the man who did it until his retirement. You know what happened to 1,000 of your permanent clients? They're burned at 500 very quickly. Because the student didn't know, he didn't know their regular clients, he didn't know how to communicate with them, and that's what's happening to you. In this complex serious business, what's the score, the contest, the application. On the one hand, you're in danger of, of course, all these people, and eventually this is probably the president of the administration, so that Andrew Jarak doesn't come under his window. And on the other hand, you have entrepreneurs waiting for this job to be done fairly and transparently. If you don't take this seriously, then this happens, people can't do it without experience, and after all, we always come back to it as some kind of political decision. Are we going that way or not? I personally experienced unpleasantness as an agent, from people, entrepreneurs who said, so you don't care about Croatia, they called on HAMAG, where they were there, went all the way and commercial bank, all the degrees at the end of someone from HAMAG, I don't know who, someone said, this project wasn't good, on the basis of something someone prescribed it, sent him a plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52010	Answer, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52011	Comrade Sagar, you know what, I would invite all the small and medium-sized and peaceful entrepreneurs, who applied to this competition that 84 days did not pay a contribution, absolutely nothing. Because their pay contributions get people who were supposed to grade it, and they didn't do it, so look, let these people now pay absolutely nothing for 84 days. So let those who should have graded not get 84 days' pay, do you know what that would be? The chaos on the streets, and the fact that the entrepreneur is 84 days past the procedure that was supposed to be, so I'll just point out once again, is now the 10th month of 2017 the competition was sent 9th month 2016. Are you aware that it's been a year and a month? Well, that's an unprecedented case. I don't know how someone doesn't find that strange at least, so they start asking questions and reacting to what's taking so long. And not to mention other competitions of cohesion and competitiveness that are already so much late, if we're talking about 60 million and above projects, and that's for one next and a break and a topic, but this is simply unacceptable for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52012	And the last replica, Mrs. Strenja-Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52013	After all we've heard my question is to you, do you think at all, if we need this agency, if it's one of the 200 that we said we should actually put an end to this job to do someone who's a little bit longer to treat those who should be, as we say the carriers of our economy. And the question is whether there are any positive examples in some local environments, where we're slightly different to get out of this, where they're slightly different from small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52014	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52015	As far as HAMAG is concerned, I must say that they also have positive things that they have decided so far, but lately it seems more and more to me that there are these negative, or, since I've been asking the questions of a representative, and ever since I've been following this whole work, not as an entrepreneur from before, I have to notice that a lot of things I've actually been bad at finding out. However, I hope that all those remarks that I have made on your last report for 2015 will be better, that I can be better, especially with regard to the innovators and these microcredits that will improve, because the funds, as the President said last time, will have and are applied so that I really hope that this part will do better than before. For this part, however, I am simply looking for answers to ask for the responsibility of those who are guilty of this and ask for a way to correct this injustice, i.e. waiting and not hiring people in small entrepreneurs. I'm just going to tell you examples of positive and in other local environments, I'm kind of an economist and as an entrepreneur, especially when I started my first entrepreneurial support for the institution privately, I often follow what other cities and states are doing, and somehow it's always what Estonia, Sweden, Denmark, are countries that have such a better system than we are. But that's kind of what to expect, because they're centuries ahead of us. But what fascinates me, which I have been following about them for five years, is Macedonia, Albania and Montenegro. You would not believe that all three, especially Macedonia, have such a good programme, such a set of measures to attract investors, have such benefits, that I simply cannot believe that we are talking about Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52016	Thank you very much. We're continuing with the clubs, Mr. Darko Horvat, in front of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52017	... Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Management Agency of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments, Honored colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] So here in the same year very briefly, the reports and the two reports on the business of HAMAG and when I spoke about the 2015 report, I have to admit that there were no such dangerous questions at the time whether this was one of the agencies that we needed or the system could function without this agency. That's when we were in 2015 and we went over the report part because we said to ourselves, I said that only in the 2016 report will I be able to apply and present what has changed in the functioning of that agency over the past year. So here's this report, just like the one for 2015, is formally structured exactly how it has to be and I'm going to go back to just some of the enquiries and discussions that are already here today and from this pay phone and also from the club of parliamentary representatives spoken, and in these discussions and in these queries, unknowns and ignorances have been revealed precisely by those who asked these questions. So, in the first month of 2016, when there was a change in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, the first thing was made, a retrospective was made, sat next to the table and tried to see where we were. After that, we found that all of our competitions that were to attract huge funds from EU funds have such complicated common national rules that our entrepreneurs simply stopped applying. So when you invited 20 entrepreneurs to the table and asked why they didn't apply, in very short terms they explained to you what the problem was. So we made them show the circled financial structure at the time of the application. How? At that point, they had to bring in with those 25, 35 or 45% of the grants they were to receive from the European Fund, should have brought in a bank guarantee or a credit arrangement contract for the round-up financial structure of the investment itself. After that, the state administration has analysed these reports for about a year, and what has the entrepreneur done? When he took a loan to the bank, at an interest rate of 6.5 to 7.5%, he put the same money in that same bank for a year at an interest rate of 02, or 0.3%. This procedure was in 7 dramatic steps in 2015, resulting in 8 contracts concluded and 59 million kuna of the available several billion. After that, national rules were reconstructed. The 7-step procedure was reduced to 3 and this first magical step we're talking about here today is a clean administrative check, a man comes in, opens an envelope, has predefined questions, and controls whether there are 7 documents in that envelope. If there's all seven documents, then it's formally accepted such an application, it goes into validation. And now you tell me, at which the EU administration numbered 38 people, half of whom programmed and created competitions, and half of the people worked for the validation of these projects, so was the administrative capacity of these people enough to process all these applications? And then an idea is born. So, with 9 projects opening in 2016, it happens that after 3 years of wish we manage to push the E-impulse through the eye of the needle and provide 250 million kuna for it from the European Fund. After that, these 3 steps and very simple documentation for entrepreneurs, produce what? These 250 applications and 5 million kunas from 2015 become 250 million kuna, has nothing more to do with the state budget, but we get almost 3,000 applications. And yes, the competition is being announced in 1.9, the project applications are starting to arrive and the rule says so. They are not processed or opened by those who arrive on the 5th, or those who arrive on the 65th day, but are awaiting completion of the competition and are subsequently moving towards its implementation. And that 84 days were realistically possible if someone prepared the application, submitted the application in the 5th or 7th day of the open competition and waited for the completion of the competition, and the completion of the contest was 30. 12. 2016. And then you get 3,000 apps and what do you do? You have 12 people who, with these 13 and 3 thousand applications, also have 8 other projects that must be valorised and prepared for negotiation. You happen to have "help" call for an operation that sits in HAMAG. And don't tell the truth, HAMAG enters the operation, so the job was assigned to him by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship or the economy. And tell the story that the apps were passed on to another institution and were somewhere waiting and collecting dust, I'm telling you that your source is very bad. ... No, the minister wrote nicely that the application from the 5th day of submission until the closing of the competition waited 84 days. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I believe that's how it was. That's what you interpret her letter any way you want, you'll get a chance at a replica. And I'm telling you, I'm telling you what's real and real. And another modernity that occurs in 2016 and that entrepreneurs very well accept. So 5 years back, or 7 years back, entrepreneurs get so-called. Subsidised corporate loans at an interest rate of 7.2%, the state pays a 25-year subsidy, the county pays a 2% subsidy and the city or municipalities if there is a 1% subsidy in the budget. Finally, the subsidized credit for the entrepreneur pays 3% points but the bank receives its 7.2%. In half of 2016, a billion and 200 million kuna sits at the expense of HAMAG and what happens? They happen so-called. Investment loans, micro and small loans for micro, small, micro and small entrepreneurs. On what terms? Why is these apps statistically less? Because there is no longer any need for subsidies because the interest rate for investment is 0.5% and for crafts assets is 1.5%. Because the application is so simplified that under quotes at that time every further simplification created problems in the unambiguousness of deciding whether the application is good or not. And what happens? 230 requests lodged in the second half of last year are converted into contracts. What will be the situation in 2017? We'll see about that. But there is no longer any need for subsidies that occur from the state budget and from the budget of units of local and regional self-government. It was the first link that happened. If we spend this year, we open the way for the next application to European financial institutions where 0% of the interest is given to us by such loans that we can place in the system of micro, small and medium-sized companies. 2016, I said several times already, is characteristic of this in competitiveness and cohesion of the vast amount of resources available to us is open to entrepreneurs but also to business infrastructure and units of local and regional self-government 9 competitions. I said at the very beginning, the contests from 2015 were in the segment of the grant component maximum at 45%. In 2016, two competitions are opened to build an entrepreneurial infrastructure where the component, the intensity of grants support is over 90%, for innovation and innovators 95%. There is no need to round up the financial structure through credit arrangements and yet there is one benefit for entrepreneurs, cities, municipalities or county. So this is how the philosophy of developing a system of micro, small and medium-sized companies is designed. Also, what the colleague said and the support institutions that could have been partially subsidized or co-financed through their work if, as some regional or any other development agency, they wanted to assist in communication or in the work of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship towards the end-user or entrepreneur. What is important to note at the very end? So part of this 2016 report is also a financial report. So what worked on HAMAG and I congratulate them on that. And those processes that ended in pre-demand or bankruptcy, pre-demand settlements or bankruptcy proceedings, so a million and 300 thousand, a billion and 300 million kuna of all these loans and fixed funds and which were the risk-placement HAMAG managed to return to its portfolio and budget. And finally, what is very important to me, at the end of 2016, in its business, HAMAG achieved a surplus in its business, so it made the difference between income and expenditure at the level of millions and 318 thousand kuna. And I'm only sorry that the Agency's capacitation of what is happening now in 2017 was not made a year before, because this would result in a far greater dynamic of the processing of such requirements and not only of these but of all 9 competitions opened in 2016. For all these reasons that I have listed here today, I am aware of the fact that these questions are very dangerous whether Croatia or the system of micro, small and medium-sized companies such an operational agency, 100% sure that they should, 100% sure that they should be capacitated, 100% sure that they should be brought closer to the end-user. And what the HAMAG administration is doing at the moment, doing distribution of its work to the county centres, I am giving full support and the HDZ club will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52018	Thank you very much. Now we've made progress, so half of the MPs present were looking for a replica. The first is Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52019	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvat for you is fortunate that this debate takes place in a late hour so that people don't look at you anymore, especially those who do this job because it would look ridiculous. So this energetic performance of yours would be funny to people, not convincing. This way, since he's looking and following a few people and probably a lot of people here and he doesn't even know about the job, so he might as well be cheating. So first, you said some data, I would refer to it, you said you cut from 7 to 3 steps. Those people who follow it know that, yes, you've reduced to three steps and each of the three steps contained these former seven. So there were 3A, 3B and 1A, 1B, so on that side the same number of steps just in 3 points. So that's how it was reduction and rationalization. Besides the guarantee thing, but it's a matter of concept, whether you bring someone in to get a project so they can't get a guarantee and take away the time and capacity of the agency or you'll ask for someone who can get a guarantee so that he can get the project. On the other hand, what you said about financial instruments that people who don't try to figure it out, so nothing Mr. Horvat could do if it hadn't already been programmed and started in 2014 and approved. And now he's waving there, you think that he made I don't know what, no, and basically all these projects that he's talking about were planned in 2014 and approved and for this planned withdrawal of funds. So try to understand, Mr. Horvat, some people know something about it. You can't sell people a story, especially one that doesn't, which has no basis. As for the e-impulse, Mr Tolusic gave it to you because you lost money to save you from sharing something before the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52020	Thank you, thank you, thank you, Mr. Maras. You made yourself clear, you made yourself clear. Answer You have one violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[But I'll say there's still time for time. Thank you very much.]] Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52021	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So my colleague Maras hurt Article 238, because he certainly doesn't have the authority to comment on what kind of discussion is, is it funny, is it tragic, to cry, to make fun of, and I don't know what kind? So, his whole replica, I can say is tragic and not ridiculous. So it's not in the House of Representatives' domain, everyone's discussing it the way they want. Among other duties as a representative to discuss in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52022	Okay, it's my fault, I wasn't looking for an article and the article's always the same, so good. Here you go, Mr. Maras. You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52023	The article was also injured, I'm sorry, there are several articles that have been injured but the way you led Not from the 1st to the last, don't mess around. [[Intruder Radin: Which, which?]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So he was injured in part 238 that you as chairman should have warned Mr. Strick who the article was and on the other hand was injured by the Rules of Procedure. So you have to tell me if the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. My deep belief is that it's not because I can comment because I know what Mr. Horvat was talking about. That's awfully funny what he was saying. And comical and unprofessional. I can say that. Here's what I said one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52024	Thank you, too. I made a mistake with that twice. If, while Mr. Strick didn't, because he later said what article it was, until he told us what article it was at the beginning, I was wrong not to tell him. And I was wrong not to stop you, because Mr. Maras is still supposed to have a different dictionary for his colleagues. A different dictionary. Because if we start telling each other what's funny and not funny, this circus is going to become an even bigger circus. Sir, reply to the replica, please. Darko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52025	Thank you, Vice President. Well, everything here is fine with my colleague Maras. As Croatian entrepreneurs cried in 2015, he locked himself in the cabinet and did not talk to entrepreneurs because he now wants to escape from two facts in a variety of ways. So if he did, I imagined the story he was going to start in 2014, so what he was doing in 2014 and 2015 and where all these projects were standing in a coworker's drawer for 2 years were collecting dust. And what is the fact that a colleague Maras cannot escape from again is the fact that in 2015, 59 million kuna and 8 contracts were withdrawn from the European funds in 2015. In 2016 the figure is I would say perhaps irrelevant but in the withdrawal segment through only two key competitions we exceeded the number of 700 million. If that's funny to you, buddy Maras, then laugh still, but you're locked up in an office here because if you're gonna laugh at it when you get to the real sector, believe me, that's not funny at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52026	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Bull's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52027	Thank you very much. My colleague, you spent more time in your presentation talking to your colleague Ninčević, but I have not heard your answer to her question, i.e. yours. What happens to the reports that 84 days bought means dust in the halls, it hasn't been resolved yet. That 250 million kunas are essentially on hold, i.e. That they did the grade, that said they evaluated people who were interns, if they were absolutely competent. The fourth question, are these applications, due to one point, two points, and there are no arguments on the evaluations, accepted projects and means complaints, i.e. lawsuits even that can go from people who've been looking for projects this means. And the basic thing is, if you're waiting so long, unfortunately and crucially, and the basic thing is that even during Maras, it was better, it was tragically better. That's tragic. Now, how did you sell it, I don't know, but the key question is, where is the money? 250 million kuna, for which entrepreneurs will sue, means to sue, it should be answered by the gentleman, where is the money. What was that about in the halls? Why do people who aren't competent, who are here to determine their internships? A number of questions my colleague gave, you didn't answer, or it's possible that she was misinformed, I have no idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52028	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull's response to Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52029	So I didn't get questions like this for me here, questions were addressed to the president of the administration. What it does and how the Croatian Agency for Small Economy works, I am sure that in one of the final reports, the President himself will present his view of the situation. Dear counterpart Bulj, at the moment when the contract is concluded, every entrepreneur has the opportunity to ask for it, and it is not just an e-impulse specific instrument, but all the projects that are happening, and they are the source of EU funds. The moment the commission approves you at that time, it is no longer debated whether you can spend it or not. For the e-impulse, 250 million kuna, the commission approved, in writing, a piece of paper, irrefutable. So let's not confuse the Croatian public again, nothing happened two weeks ago. So, the moment the competition was called, the commission approved 250 million kuna. Who would dare call a tender if the commission doesn't give you consent to the same call. And the moment this procedure, and the joke is the insinuation of fellow Maras, that there were seven or nine steps, there were clear steps, and there were both C and D. I could at that point say that at that time each entrepreneur had taken 17 steps, not 7 that were reduced to 3. And these money will certainly be allocated to Croatian entrepreneurs the moment the terms are created for the conclusion of the contract with anyone who applied for the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52030	Thank you, thank you, thank you very much, thank you, thank you. Mrs. Ninčević Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52031	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Horvat, two weeks ago, users, i.e. people who applied for the competition, were first notified of the results of the competitions, which happened two weeks ago, not a notice from the funds we withdrew from the EU. What I've been trying to find out all along, I'm asking, and I'm all hoping that we'll get that answer, is it really true that people in vocational training have been assessing project proposals throughout the process, all phases? Is that true? And is it true, that really those 84 days nobody cared where it was. But what I'm trying to say to you, I was an entrepreneur until not a year ago, a micro, small entrepreneur, so the smallest one who works 24 hours a day, pays all the contributions, so that everyone here would get paid, and they're terrified of the inspection that will come to him and I won't have it on paper, literally, on a table of paper with the schedule of my employees' vacations. And that's why I can get 20,000 kn minimum fines, so I'm such an entrepreneur. Now imagine what it's like for me to listen to this transfer who was worse. Is it even possible to imagine what it's like? I can, because I came from that sector, what it's like to watch you argue here, was it worse with you, was it worse with this? Doesn't matter who it is. You were the minister, you were the minister. I'm an entrepreneur in this situation. Miro, do you really think that's normal, I don't? Because I haven't forgotten what it means to be a small entrepreneur, because I'm going to be after this term tomorrow, because I don't mean to live off politics. Because I want to go back to the private sector, because I'm a man who wants to create. And I'm here because I want to change these conditions for creation. And when I see that, I really don't know what a man would say about it. And I'm not just saying this from my experience, I ran 350 small companies and crafts. Do you know what number it is, how much activity it is? Through your... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52032	Thank you very much. I promised to hold the presidency until 22.30 if you're staying until 22.30, that's your call. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52033	It's nice to see this synchronization, and I'm even nicer to hear when you fix yourself, correct yourself, in that incorrect quote and respected colleague, at the minister's post, I also came from the real private sector, running a company of 120 people. To tell a story about how real sector investments are invested, how financial structure and investment is rounded up and how credits are spent, how they are applied to grants, I would not de-polomeze about it. We could have three hours with coffee, not taking time in this debate, but what's the fact, you said at the beginning of your presentation, I founded the first supporting institution, private. So at one point you showed up as a private consultant and someone who was for the entrepreneur. He gave advice, how to apply, etc., etc. So our consultants have one big problem, and I see these same consultants have been very good at briefing you on what is their problem? That they don't read the contest. If you read the contest with them, you had a lovely colleague write to you in the competition, the competition opens on 1st and closes on 30.12. 31.12. begins the opening of the envelope and 31.12. begins the procedure of the first phase. So in this whole story to be clear and to be clear, none of these envelopes were allowed to open before 30.12. and these are the conditions of the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52034	Time's up, Mr. Horvat. I'm sorry, but as far as time goes, we have to be exact. Mr. Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Horvat, from your debate, I've heard that you are not an apologist of Hamag, because as far as I understand, neither I nor my colleague Ninčević have asked you anything, but well, I'm glad you feel responsible for this fiasco. If you say 31.12. So now it's 5.10., let's not talk 84 days of waiting. If that's the way you want to bring HAMAG's business closer to the end-user, then you're doing it very badly. I wouldn't go so far as to claim that HAMAG Bicro is unnecessary but with this kind of work, the slightest hand is irresponsible. And if we determine what we're asking here and there's Mr. Vrbanec, I'd see him hear it, not you. So if it is true that people in vocational training were involved in all segments, in all stages of evaluation in the process, then we really have a problem. And then the responsible should be held accountable, but I haven't heard from anyone yet. So let's discuss it. So, I'd like to hear Mr. Sparrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52036	Thank you very much. Answer? No, I don't. Okay. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52037	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Horvat, let me first say about one important thing that we agree on, and that's for sure whenever we give support, and the latest support of buying the first real estate shows it to us, and you've already mentioned these interest rates to the banks. Support must not go in this direction to actually support banks, to support them. I agree with that, but what seems to me at the end of the most important thing that you've said, and the reason for this problem we're in, you said we should capitulate this system. A serious job can't be done in an unserious way. We have the money, we have how you claim as simplified a procedure as possible, a contest, and then we need people who can do it. You know, if you, and this happens in practice, if someone tells you that a particular project isn't worth it because of the price of pork in 10 years, you know, it's a little unserious. It happens in practice. Or if someone estimates the project that way, they say, is you have, your project is sustainable but only if you get the funds, without those funds it's not sustainable. So how else? Then why is a man asking for those means? So, very important are people who know their jobs, who can do this job, impossible, not good, more questions... I can't do it without experience. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So people who have experience, now the second question is do we have such people in the system and can we pay them to do such a serious job? Because the money according to what you're saying is going to be more and more, and that money needs to get to the entrepreneurs, otherwise this story will remain an empty and hollow story.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52038	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52039	Well, here's my colleague, Sagar, I'm happy to respond to your replicas in one continuum because they're too tall, they've got a head and a tail and always guess at the essence of the story. I don't believe it, so I didn't discuss the subject, but I don't believe that that professional part of the work that must be qualified people, for which there must be people with experience, as many as there were at the ministry at the time, and there were only 12 of them, that a single application passed past them and came to any contract. But, Comrade Sagar, try now to imagine a situation where you really have 12 such specialists and you have between 4 and 5 thousand applications. You have people who have come to your training and that first stage that is really called an administrative check, in which you have to check whether all 7 points and pieces of paper required in the tender documentation are contained in that application. Do you have to spend at that time the resources of a specialist like this who has to get into the core of the problem, see if the app has come up with or isn't, or if a graduate is enough for that, so the man with the high professional training you took to training, who is an average intelligent person and knows how to count from 1 d 7 and count whether the application goes to another stage or simply doesn't meet those formal conditions because something in that envelope is missing. It was a team that came in for training. Counted 7 papers, valorized that whole story in the section of administrative verification and gave experts to decide whether or not the project needed a subsidy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52040	Thank you. And the last replica, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52041	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Horvat, here's from your debate, but from the answer to all these replicas, you're clearly very well referred to as the subject. Here's some unverified information, and maybe you're far more informed about it. So, is it possible today that an entrepreneur is asking for a loan, to settle it within a week, and that the interest is below 1%? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52042	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52043	In 2014, we heard that these things were projected, they were normal. There was no such loan. In 2015, she was collecting dust, but my colleague Bulj says she was much better than 2016. But there was no such loan. And then it happened in 2016. In that 2016 I read in this report, there were 230 requests and the thing to be interesting, of 230 requests, here I will find information, so of those 230 requests submitted in the last two months of 2016, because unlike the claim by my colleague Maras, that... It was implemented and approved in 2014 and 2015, contracts with the Ministry of Regional Development signed in the second half of 2016, 2016. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that last quarter of 2016, of those 230 applications, 44 were approved. And it's no secret, colleague Strick, under which conditions these loans were granted, and it's no secret that all these loans were if they were part of an investment, issued at an interest rate of 0.5% with poor documentation and what is another anomaly of the system that we cannot possibly explain to the citizens. And that's a question here for the president of the board. Is there a methodology, and I know that there is, that this credit arrangement Croatian agency for a small economy, the economics that even at the interest rate of 0%?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52044	Thank you very much. And now we have Mr. Gordan Maras, in front of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52045	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, this is what a debate looks like when, unfortunately, it goes one way, but it's the consequence of not understanding the work you've been doing and how things work and thinking that you've done God knows what, and basically you've done nothing. But let's get back to the HAMAG report. HAMAG is a state agency that has a role to play and makes sense. And this report is very good at seeing what she's doing, what her goals are to do relatively transparently and that I believe that in the coming years it will get better and better, given the disposition of the funds ahead of us. And then when some of the representatives in the heat debates get carried away, and they start talking about 2014, 2015 and they don't know how things work, and they don't know that when Croatia joined the EU in 2013 and the first financial perspective was 2014-2020. And that in 2014 nothing was related to this perspective 2014-2020 because only the first programmes we received were accredited at the end of 2014 and the first competition started in early 2015 or the first money we pulled from that perspective by 2020 was the money to build an entrepreneurial centre near the Velesajm which, because of Mr Horvat's very successful city, is unfortunately still not opened today. So that was really effective, and unfortunately we have a problem, of course, and Minister Dalic has now shown nothing special, but we have a problem. Ask God when it's over, the building is finished, the equipment isn't even close, the competition hasn't yet, one has been canceled and now again, ask God for what, no, but it's probably going to set up by OLAF colleagues, but the point is that it couldn't be quite how Mr Horvat imagined it, probably because he doesn't know how it works, withdrawing money from the first second of 2015 in the way he thinks he can. But all this stuff he was talking about was planned at the time. So programming took place in 2014, all of what he with the intensity of strong voice here says was planned in 2014. I hope so, and I'm satisfied with how Hamag's colleagues work, and I'm sure it will be in the future. Now, what happened to this E-impulse here in the report, and a colleague mentioned it, I wasn't here yet, but I realized that the debate was going on. It happened in 2015 and 2016, respectively, that Mr Horvat at one point realized that there was no money in the budget to pay certain incentives for entrepreneurs. And now there was panic every year there was some impulse, this year there was no more money because there was a little budget cut out of our this, and there was no where, how, how, how to split, and then there was a debate, I know it because I heard it and somehow Minister Tolusic managed to secure those 250 million that were back-to-back, the contest was called before the elections, as he said 1.9, to go out, to show that it was the right thing to do there, Darko Horvat had made a big and good competition. And as he said it was, although it's a little confusing now that you're reading this report, he says it was open by 31.12. and that everyone who had arrived until then was accepted, by 31.12., in 2099. Now the question is, why does the report say she's 31? 12. but the first phase passed 187 projects if nothing was opened before 31. 12? I don't know if you've seen it. You just said that. Look at the phonogram, so everyone who came here was getting into the contest and nothing is opening, and it says here that 187 has already passed the first stage, and 1907 has been processed. And what happens after that? People are waiting for money. Like Mrs. Nincevic said, all this year, this whole year. So until before, I don't know what, a month, two days ago, when they started, the first projects started. But all of that just because, this whole project is otherwise so innovative, they called it an e-impulse. These projects I ran were called an entrepreneurial impulse, this is now called an e-mpulse. I wish they'd come up with a name, and they took my copyright. And on behalf of the project. So it all came about because it had to be done quickly, forcefully to create one project so that Minister Horvat could call the competition in 9 months 2016. And, of course, even these hardworking people in HAMAG, Mr. Vrbanec and his team, hardworking people can't respond to such unprofessional demands, which is a policy, which doesn't understand this job and then they find themselves in unguarded grapes and then there's these problems that Mrs. Nincevic was talking about here. Otherwise, I'm unlike my colleagues, Bulja, who is certainly well-versed in this matter, you can see that he understands, the area of entrepreneurs and the promotion of entrepreneurship, that it's quite inside. I'm pleased with how Hamag works and how he handles these projects. The fact is that there are certain oscillations in certain projects, for example, there are slightly fewer guarantees, but we are trying to focus on these grants, on loans, small loans that go and no guarantees, that is, let's say, a great project that also recently started, also programmed 2, 3 years ago. So that you can get up to 50,000 euros with the debt itself. So I keep track of what's done and doing well. Here, you don't need it because HDZ is in position or there's a chance to manage it now and say that everything is bad. I think HAMAG is doing well and it's one better part of the Ministry of Economy. This other part isn't going very well. We see it every day in the media. But this part, as far as small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are concerned, is going well. And on that side, he would give them support to continue. It shows a whole series of projects. I wouldn't point out a single one right now, but there are a whole series of European projects as well. But what makes me particularly happy is the transparency that HAMAG BICRO has. So at the end of each report, you have the signature of those who got guarantees, incentives, loans all, within which programs, which firm, when the guarantee was issued. Everything, so anyone in the Republic of Croatia can come there, look at it and say it's the one and can do the control, because people know best in their midst, whether a project is like this or something, whether someone might be pushing it in some nontransparent way or not, etc. And on the other hand, it's an innovation that was introduced in four years ago, while I was a minister, unlike HBOR, which hides it as a snake's foot, the HBOR there cannot know who gets the loan. And now we see in some media that have received a solution from the information commissioners, to tell them which loans were granted that year. They say they don't call for a banking secret. But here you can also see guarantees and those who got a loan in HBOR with HAMAG's guarantee. So this is an example of how the state can behave responsibly and transparently and how no one has to be afraid to give information, how public money is spent or exposed. So, once again, I commend the transparency that was held against the previous years, and I believe that this can only be used by HAMAG in his business and state, or by the trust of entrepreneurs to do things the best possible way there. Now, when you hear all this, you realize you don't always have to equalize officers, agencies and politics. Sometimes even a irresponsible policy that doesn't understand work, projects, can make a problem like what happened at an e-impulse. And that's why it's good to listen I've listened very carefully to the officers and I've had maximum confidence and I've been lucky for example to take me for... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I had the opportunity to have a professional who is now working in the state service and who is the authority in that area, and maybe that's why it was easier for me. You don't have to be cruel to Mr. Horvat, or unfair to him. When you get a co-worker like that, it's hard sometimes to do something about it. It was easier for me because I really had a professional, not a minority, or Mrs. Lecay, suggested an assistant who, unfortunately, was neither capable nor able to respond to the jobs that were put before him. And now the situation, as I hear it, with the arrival of the lady who worked at SAFU, I don't know exactly her name, the secretary of state has been significantly improved and it should also be said that it is important to know how to choose associates and be able to choose quality associates, because without them there is no quality work. And finally I say once again, I'm going to support this report absolutely, I think that HAMAG is doing a proper and quality job, and as far as I'm concerned, since I've been involved and followed the work before, and I'm following it now, I hope that's what's going to stay in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52046	You haven't forgotten anything, have you? Mr. Horvat has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52047	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Well, I have to admit, as I always say, at some technical or professional level, I can't step up here in Parliament with my colleague Maras, it's always political connotations, so even this one just said when you're a longtime member of the party, you make a top professional just because your co-worker's been a party for 15 years, then it turns out like this. You make the rules, people run away from you. Unlike 2099 applications, you have 200 in the year, you make 8 contracts and in the 3rd month of 2016, when you change the rules, almost 90% of those who, according to your regime, have already been in phase 5 or 6, withdraw the application and submit the same application again. These entrepreneurs need to ask who understands, and who doesn't understand, and these entrepreneurs are the only ones who can give on this strange structure your, your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52048	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52049	Well, I didn't call a professional anyone because of what's in any party. I tell you what people say. Ask the men, ask Minister Grief if you don't believe me. Feel free to do that, so people are there by their name and by their last name. I'm willing to put everything on that what I'm saying is true. And I don't know if you're sure. And do you stand behind the gentleman who was your assistant and who dealt with it? And I'm telling you that the lady has been a clerk for 10 years and that people appreciate her for doing that they appreciate her in this administration, too, the HDZ. Unlike those of you who got it, what was the name of Mr. Chivrag, not Chivrag, I can't remember now, but he meant really, what would you say, marked exactly what you said earlier, no, the intricacies in those nine months related to the eu funds and instead of admitting it and saying it wasn't good, you now a valuable official who appreciates and in your administration, HDZ, you label her as a member of the SDP, so what difference does it make? What difference does it make? I really don't understand it. What difference does it make who's from which party? Then why is the lady valued now at Minister Grief, if that's such a big problem as you said? Maybe if you hadn't acted like that and said, "Here's the main prerequisite." Maybe you'd be better and easier to do, maybe we'd have done something. This isn't how you've done it. It's almost nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52050	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52051	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maras, I think that the few viewers watching this debate should be made clear and loud that the good results of this report are closely related to the mandate in which you have been at the head of the ministry and that this is a fact that can be supported and the current situation relating to the withdrawal of European funds, where precisely the lack of the HDZ administration over the past two years has led us to return funds. Here I will remind you that just on the basis of our 2015 flight, 361 million were withdrawn, 2016. 655, and now that we should look at the HDZ results of the government, in the first 6 months of 118 million, so let's multiply it by 2, we'll see that it won't even get close to 2016, these figures need to be discussed openly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52052	Before I give my word to Mr. Maras, Mr. Jovanovic, last time you and I were watching 15 people in this hour, just so you know. Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52053	Well, but we're not here for the viewers. We are here to say our views and I agree with Mr Jovanovic in part of the withdrawal of funds, there we had some day of debate and if there were no significant withdrawal of funds for agriculture, the results would have been defeated, and what you mentioned. [[Intruder Radin: No, no, no, but Mr. Jovanovic said about the people watching us, so I said it.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 118m euros for entrepreneurs is low, but let's give it a chance. I personally don't want the results of this administration to be bad because it will irrevocably leave our entrepreneurs without the money they could get. I just want to be honest. To tell the truth and to value the work. If I'm in Mr. Vrbanca's apartment to commend, Mr. Jovanovic, for quality work, then it's amazing for me to have one representative objecting to the clerk because he's in one party. You see what that mentality is, how it goes down, and why we're surprised then, Mr. Bulj, Mr. Zagar, which is how we feel when a representative from an economically developed county tells us that the problem is in an official who is a member of a party. Well, I didn't interrogate people there, it was probably during my term and the HDZ people, but it wasn't my criterion to make someone more or less valuable. Here again I say, I commend Mr. Vrbance's work, is that a problem? Is that so hard to tell someone from HDZ? Commend one who works well?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52054	Thank you. Mrs. Ninčević Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52055	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Maras will agree with this part of what you mentioned about the transparency of HAMAG, because I agree with that, and it is nice to put one agency transparently on the insight of all credit users, which, unlike the HBOR which calls for banking secrets, the Law on Credit Institutions and the HBOR Act, where it is literally insane that a bank that is not a commercial bank, is a bank that is publicly funded by entrepreneurs not to the same citizens whose money is funded to see who these customers are. So, I agree with that and I agree with a series of good things that HAMAG did that I already said in my presentation on the previous report, but I cannot agree with the fact that I can't get answers. Well, since I don't get answers from the former minister, since I'm still waiting for an answer from the president of the administration, perhaps you as a former minister, you can answer how it is possible for Minister Dalic to answer the parliamentary question with these words, that the handover of the received applications took place on 27.12., that's the first question. So the fact is that these applications were standing, and the second question is whether it's really possible, you might as a former minister know that the evaluation of the complete project proposal was really determined by people on professional training, since we all know that an anonymous application has arrived, and no one knows by what, and here we are looking for that answer, which is why this anonymous application came in. And the third question, do you think, is that it's normal and what you think is the reason that people wait a year and a month, with only now being given so, the announcements and only next week have a workshop on how they will act after signing the contract. So the funds are still not going to get anyone at least a month, which would mean a year and two months minimum, people are waiting for those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52056	Thank you, too. The answer, I suppose.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52057	Thank you very much. I don't know the right answers, but I can assume with great certainty what this is all about. So I wasn't there so I can't testify, but I can tell you that this, first that they're taking the subject is the consequence of a new government structure, very likely. So, since the election's been called, otherwise it's never done. Never do what the Minister of the former Horvat has done, to call 10 days before the election contests, to create an impression like here he has done something, please report to everyone, etc. Because then what happens, Mr. Bull? It happens that the competition is under way, opinions are being set up, new ministers are coming, the ministries are coming together, and in the end, what you said happens is that 80 days don't know where the projects are taking them and who's responsible for them. That's what happens. I'm signing it for you here, though I haven't physically seen what it is, but it's the most logical possible answer. The second thing, you said to the trainees, that is, at vocational training. Very likely in the lack of people, they also used people in vocational training. I don't know, but I guess. When you make a mess like Mr. Horvat did, then people have to patch from all sides. And I guess that's what happened. And the third question, why did it last a year and a few months, because of the jumbo made by former Minister Darko Horvat, forcibly project, give Tolusic some money, so it doesn't turn out like I didn't do anything. What I was doing alone, we have to share at least 250 million. And all because of what I said earlier, all of this happens to us, these questions. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Radin: They tell me that time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52058	Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52059	Thank you. Comrade Maras, I will not judge your debate, but I can agree with part of your debate that it is necessary to present the truth and stick to the facts. In your debate, you stated that there is a responsible and irresponsible policy. There are capable and incompetent officials and professional and unprofessional associates, as Minister of craft in the government of the diameter of Milanovic, who we know was in the time since 2011-2015 to comment that, for example, 31.12.2011, 86424 crafts were registered, 4 years later, i.e. at the end of the term of office of the Government on 31.12.2015. 76222. Or 10202 crafts were closed or shut down during that period. If we take one average, let's say that three of our fellow citizens are working in a twist, that's 30606 different places have been shut down. So now, can you comment on whether it's a responsible policy, whether your officials are capable and your associates are professional? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52060	Thank you, too. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52061	I can, absolutely. I can comment, assuming that the exact number of turns is true, I can tell you that I don't know if you're aware that the situation is changing in both the economy and life in general. That everything is never the same. It's certain cyclic processes, changing things. Well, then let's say, in 2012, we passed the JDO Act. And then you wouldn't believe it. In a year, 30,000 were founded. Probably a lot of them have been craftsmen before. People just ran away from the trades to the JDO. It's a perfectly normal thing. Mr. Striker is not everything as the sky has always been. Things change. So there are some changes, someone introduces something, etc. But you're right, there were problems in the crafts. Let's say I estimate that Mr. Ranogajca, the HDZ candidate for the mayor of Krapina-Zagorje County, and the president of the craft chamber, to whom it was only important to collect the chamber's contribution. He didn't take too much care of craftsmen. So, that he might have been a little bit more agile, that he cut people's chamber contributions, and he didn't object when I cut it down, and then, the first time he could increase it, when it went up the untaxable base, he immediately raised the people by 50%, it would further affect the number of crafts. But for you, here's one lesson, it's never the same, things change. ... No, not worse, so instead of the JDO's turn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52062	Thank you. Now you're up in front of the club, so you'll continue now,... And Miro Bulj, now you were, sorry, I agree with you, later, now Mr. Miro Bulj, come in, now it's your turn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, it's an individual debate already. Thank you very much. Okay. I wanted to give you the importance of coming here. I failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52063	Thank you very much. Since my colleague Ninčević's first announcement, I haven't really received any answers from the club, and we see that he boasts former ministers with successes and that my colleague Maras, and my colleague Horavat. However, the basic question is, and I will ask again what my colleague has asked. What about the reports hidden 80 days from the light? Where were they? In the halls. Whether the dust was covering them or collecting dust, that's the question now. For a year, entrepreneurs have been waiting for that money, a year and two months. That's the basic question. To those questions, neither colleague Maras answered nor colleague Horvat. Although I believe that colleague Horvat has had quite an expert debate, and it is a pity that we... Here from the bench he keeps in the assembly, his presentations expert. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He may even be much better than Martina Dalic at the place she's acting right now, so maybe it's a shame, because it wouldn't happen, that the damage, for a year, is waiting for these people's applications and that the money is waiting and so on. Therefore, the basic question is that people now wait and expect the answer, which is with these reports, which is why they were waiting. I've even been asked by businessmen, certain small people, who, even sent them a question from the minister, what about those applications. There's no answer, clear answers. And listening only to praises, that's not enough. Or again, I will repeat Budish, the adviser to Budish, of the Mayor of Opera, in this way, he sent a message to leave young people. And the ministry and HAMAG are sending a twice as strong message, because it's simply asking a basic question here, I'm not going to be longer with this debate, and it's unfortunate that it was judged by people in professional training, which is because of points two, they didn't get, which are not past projects, they weren't an opinion, i.e. They didn't get an explanation in their opinion, what for? What someone's going to sue and what they're going to have to do, if the lawsuits are lost, the lawsuits are going to have to be paid. And the basic and final question is 250 million kuna. Where's the money? I ask former Minister Horvat, former Minister Maras, and you, Mr Hamag, where the money that the entrepreneurs were waiting for, who didn't make that money, didn't get it. Why didn't they get it? And really where that money is. No, it's not funny, a year and two months. I'm done with this, and mostly because of these young people who unfortunately leave, and with this unseriousness, there will be more to go. This is about jobs, 250 million kuna, jobs, small craftsmen, entrepreneurs, people fighting for survival, where these funds would probably be invested and employed, 2, 3, 4, 5 people, persons who would be extremely important to start the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Because those little ones are basically basic triggers. It's not the Agrokor concert they created each other, it's not the trigger, they're the trigger. Another question at the end of those people, to stop leaving, to give people hope back. To give a public and loud answer, not a competition between former ministers who made more, but where are the money, where are the 250 million kuna, waiting for entrepreneurs for 14 months? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52064	Thank you, too. Two replicas, the first Mrs. Ninčević Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52065	I agree with my colleague Bulj, so still, here we are, what time it is, 9 and 15, we're already going through time, two, if we're not discussing the HAMAG report and I still don't have an answer to just three questions that I have, which is. Is it really possible that project applications were evaluated by SORs? Based on what did you get an anonymous application? We want to know as parliamentary representatives, who have finally received a minister who manages the agency and all the agencies that are in that ministry. So we're simply interested in this anonymous application. We're curious. Is it true what my colleague Maras replied about why 84 days ago no one knew where those applications were? And is it normal for all of you to have an entrepreneur waiting a year and two months? That's all we want to know. He's already two hours. And there's no way we can get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52066	Mr. Bully will answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52067	So that's the seriousness and finally another question, crucially, where the money is, where 250 million kuna means those 12 months are waiting for entrepreneurs which is why that money didn't go to entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized craftsmen, but it's gone who knows who, who knows who, who knows who, and so I just mentioned that it would be better if Mr Horvat, our colleague, Minister of Economy than Mrs. Dalic, she was more concerned with private business, thermal power plants, she's dealing with selling HEP, she's dealing with the primary stuff, she's 25% selling HEP than what's most important. These little entrepreneurs. It's less important to her what our entrepreneurs expect this money for a year and two months and who knows where that money is. It's already a question that needs to be asked, and I've been asking it all night, and I'm going to repeat it once more to Mr. Hamag and the other colleagues and those who are interested in this money. Where's the money? Where's the money? So exactly, where's the money? Why the deceived people who have run for office with applications, who have met the criteria, will unfortunately also complain in court proceedings, even additional costs can be, but good. I'm sorry that our minister of entrepreneurship and the economy deals with her primary matters, she's more interested in yelling here without asking what happened in history at the parliamentary deputies than in solving problems. So here's why I'm so glad I'd like to, here's another one, if he's doing these things, he's not. I hope a colleague from HAMAG answers that, that the expert, competent, is competent, that we will get to these enquiries answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52068	Thank you very much. There was one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Horvat. Here, say the article first, you've had an injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52069	Thank you, Vice President. So here, Article 238 was injured, so this answer was an unsatisfactory story, it was neither initiated nor anything encouraged, nor anything related to the subject, or the report of HAMAG for 2016. I ask you to interrupt such discussions and do not allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52070	Thank you very much. Before I do any damage to the Rules of Procedure, if I were to interrupt such discussions, I would have interrupted half the debate, so, here you go, Mr. Bull. You've had a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which article did you say? 238, probably.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52071	238, colleague Horvat... 2016, and this is 2017. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in 2016 it was scheduled, you're witnesses to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52072	What's the injury, Mr. Bull?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52073	No, no, he said it wasn't about my story of this report. He's hurt that my address isn't [[And what did he hurt?]] [[What he's hurt, yes. Here, even Maras asks you, what did he hurt?]] That's right. [[And did he hurt you?]] I was just talking to the impulse that you set up, but it hasn't gotten rid of it yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52074	Okay, okay, thank you very much. I agree. We have another replica. Mr. Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52075	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you in your debate are asking questions again and again where the money is, where is the money, it's legitimate, but the money couldn't come yet because not all the projects have been processed. So the money's on its way. I know that here as a true national tribunal you are fighting a battle once exposed to the incredible attacks of the executive government, what we saw the other day, as Minister Dalic attacked you, it has not yet been experienced in the Assembly, so I know that sometimes under the pressure of the executive authority and these attacks as you have had, it may be a bit of an obvious thing for you. And this is an obvious thing. If the projects aren't processed, then the money can't even come. When the projects are processed, when the contracts are signed, the money comes. I am convinced that these money will be paid to our entrepreneurs although I am not sure whether it will have to be returned from my budget in a few years when the audit comes. If what Mrs. Lesandric-Nincevic says is true, then the audit will say that they may have worked on projects for people who shouldn't have worked. And that's unfortunately the failure of the administration, so here, probably partly because of those attacks that have been done on you in the past few days, and most of all it was from Minister Dalic who jumped here from her chair towards you, probably a little under stress, you don't see these obvious things, and that's because the money isn't yet because the contracts haven't been signed or processed so entrepreneurs can get the money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52076	Mr. Bully, two former ministers have told you, as the Turks would say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52077	Well, when I said where the money was, we're back to where the money was. Entrepreneurs after a year and two months of running, of course asking questions about where the money is. E-impulse you said there was, so where's the money? Entrepreneur, a man who expects that money to invest in something and to be able to hire people, in order to create a new profit, they need the money he's promised, that is. He ran and met the conditions and will create a new value, hire people. Well, of course they'll set up the money, while the minister of course, that's why I said it was better if Mr. Horvat was a minister because obviously the man at least had the will and desire to talk about this too, while Mrs. Lobbard was lobbying for the thermo power plant, of course, while he was dealing with the sale of HEP, while there are more important things to do, but the likely Mr. Horvat at least took on this, at least he would listen to us if anything else. For this reason, I regret that the minister no longer uses energy in this, and not to be literally, I don't know, anything caused by her performs scenes in the Parliament, degrades first of all, because I asked the diameter, and only the economy and entrepreneurship, while we see that the most important measures are essentially 250 million kunas that were to come to our entrepreneurs, they don't. Of course, I'm asking you, where's the money? Here's another one. I'm putting in what that entrepreneur would put in place right now. What would he set up? That money travels, that they don't open envelopes, buy dust. An entrepreneur is a man who wants to create a new value, who wants to benefit his community, himself, his family, his employee. Of course he expects to create his new values, however, Martina Dalic deals with the things he... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52078	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52079	Thank you very much. Here, I'm going to give up most of what I was going to say, and I'm going to say what my colleague Bulj was teaching, where he asked where the money was. For example. One of the programmes in the report at HAMAG BICO is the development programme for knowledge-based companies, so-called ‘the ‘Bico’ programme. Reason. This is the new sense of 2015 when a public call was made for it in the pre-application received 131 entities. After the evaluation there were 28 full applications, and of these 28 full applications, 7 were selected for funding, worth 24.6 million kuna. One already fell off. So it's so-called. A new mind. Its value is to repeat 24.6 million kunas. I was wondering if a gentleman could tell us something, since they had a payment at the bail payments of a billion and 300 million. And what about unpaid rents? By having a new mind, there is an old mind. There were 37 projects in the old mind. Their value was 97 million kuna. And out of those 37 projects, seven of them failed. And it's interesting that those seven failures cost the most, 35 million kuna. What about these 35 million kunas in those seven failed projects, and what projects were they that failed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52080	Thank you, too. There's no replica. And now the lady, as an individual debate, is Mrs Ivana Ninčević Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52081	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I am, for the end of this debate, on the report by the small economy agency, I will repeat these questions that we have been trying to get answers for the past two hours, which is what happened with the applications that arrived at the ministry at the 9th month, for which Minister Dalic wrote nicely in response to the parliamentary question that the applications received, that she had made for the received applications, on 27.12. What happened in that period? Where did those applications stop? Which is why Minister, if Mr Horvat says that whoever answered you is very bad, does that really mean that Minister Dalic is bad? Although if we take the whole situation into account and see that they really stood in the hallway for 84 days and collected dust, then it turns out that's how it is. Another question we can't possibly get an answer to. And that's why you got an anonymous application? For what? Is it possible that this was really because of the SORs, because of people who are on vocational training and who have assessed project proposals throughout the process, procedures, the phase within the evaluation of e-impulse. If it isn't, please tell us after two hours, which is why you're getting a report. Third, do you really think it's normal for small entrepreneurs to wait one year and two months for the results of the competitions they reported last year at the 9th month. And I'm going to point out once again, any person who has completed this application and who has applied for an e-impulse had to fill in the number of employees, by whom the number of employees will increase in relation to the grants they seek. If there were 2099 applications, and we know that the minimum number of employees is 1, that means we're at a minimum of 3000 jobs. It's been a year and two months. And we don't care about these 3,000 jobs, if people get a job, it's perfectly normal for us. So let those people stand on the desk, who cares that 3,000 people can get jobs right now. We don't care. Here, answer me these four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52082	Thank you, too. You have two replicas, first Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52083	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ninčević Lesandric, I told you why this happened, why people were waiting, it is not that Minister Dalic did not want to take over, but that is until the project was called, not 5 to 12, but a minute until 12 before the election. It's like we didn't know there was going to be an election. It was scheduled at the 9th month, 10 days until the elections, after that, the assembly of the majority, coalitions, non-realitions, the ministry this, the ministry that. And in the end, it's been waiting 80 days. And instead of going there at all, it would probably have been done faster if it had been made within the new ministry than it was now. It's a very simple answer, Mr. Vrbanac doesn't have to answer you, I gave you the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52084	Okay. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52085	Comrade Maras, the most important question remains, especially the questions, why do we not care about these 3,000 people who can get a job? Which, therefore, by applying, we know that they have to, in a certain period of activity, I don't know now which of the users of what kind of activity he has presented, but we know that we have to hire people. It doesn't matter to us either. Why would they do that to me in time, why would we hire those 3,000 people, when it's 300,000 on the desk anyway, so let it stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52086	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52087	Thank you, Vice President. So I'm going to do it again, what I've done here 10 times already today. So I'm not going into a sentence that answers your question. And what's the fact in that answer, Col. Dalic, is really a fact, she took over the ministry on 27.12. Everything else is a deplaced structure. And in this whole story, when you consider that the entire cabinet of colleagues, Maras, ended up in that administration of the e-government because his colleague Maras, those colleagues he brought to the ministry, did not and took them with him from the ministry, but arrested them in the administration of EU programmes and his team who helped him in the work of the cabinet, was also responsible for unrealising these applications in those three months when you say and I argue otherwise, these project applications were gathering dust. So, not a colleague, Maras, returned his SDP galena, where he brought them from, but caught them in the EU administration for a simple reason, because that administration allowed these people 30% more wages that she was making up for from EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52088	We have the first breach of Mr. Maras's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52089	Thank you very much. Article 238, unheard, beneath every level of fallout here, you had to disable Mr. Horvat. So this is how you talk about people who are ministry officials who show more about who said anything than anything else. I'm not one of those Mr. Horvatts who's gonna count who's from what town, whether he's from Chakovec, from Međimurje, etc. And I don't think of bringing people into such an awkward situation. This is below what you're doing. Try to understand that these are people who do their job fairly, that no one has arrested anyone anywhere, that they've all been admitted not only in that administration but in all administrations and even in the entire ministry if they've been admitted, people have been admitted through a public tender. And this is below every level [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] If I were as bad as you, I'd count the people of Chakovec, but I won't do it. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52090	Thank you very much. It's over, Mr. Maras, at least give yourself something to hold on to, all the time everyone's saying something negative about some people here. I only have two choices, one to put up with everything, one not to put up with anyone. It's up to you. And I put up with everything. And now I'm going to ask Mrs. Lesandric to answer first. I don't have a choice, I think you've been awkward before, and now he's been awkward, and now, don't, please. ... Now you will answer, be my guest, you have the right to do so. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52091	So my colleague Maras hurt Article 238, instead of talking about injury to the Rules of Procedure, he's replicating it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52092	Ms. Ninčević-Lesandric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52093	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Horvath, I don't know why you're dealing with a colleague, Maras, I don't understand that part. And the second thing I was going to say, so Vice President of the Parliament, no one here is saying negatively about any people. We've only been looking for answers to the same questions for two hours. I don't know if I need them again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52094	I won't interrupt you, but there are names mentioned every once in a while, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52095	I didn't mention any names. I'm saying I'm commending the good stuff. [[No, no, you, I'm not talking about you.]] So the good things that were made in HAMAG I first commended and... And I'll do it again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52096	All right, don't pollemize with me because I wouldn't want to pollemize with you, and I couldn't, you understand me, you don't understand me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52097	All right, I'm just saying, there's no negative stories, these are facts we've been looking for answers for two hours. No negative stories unless these facts are true, then they're negative. And since we can't get an answer, we're starting to really think they're true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52098	Okay. It's not with me, but it's not with me. We can't, that, the Rules of Procedure won't allow our mutual controversy. Here's Mr. Bull for five minutes on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52099	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's Hamag's representative, the questions are clearly asked what's going on with the application of e-impulse entrepreneurs. One year and two months, 14 months of people, entrepreneurs who would hire 2, 3, 4, 5 and more people simply don't have an answer to this question. With all the questions asked by a colleague, we only got answers that former ministers, colleagues Maras and colleagues Horvat compete in their positions who made more. The question, however, is where are the money for the candidates. Where's the money? Both. And Minister Dalic, who deals with other affairs other than this very important problem. This is about 250 million kunas for people who have been waiting for a year and two months, who have run for office, and their grades have been done by people who are interning. Therefore, these scores for point two, since they have no opinion if they have not met that criterion, these entrepreneurs will complain and there will be judicial proceedings. Who's gonna pay for these lawsuits? This is what I'm talking about in plain language. I was called by certain entrepreneurs, even personally, and I asked a question in a conversation with an entrepreneur because of this minister of entrepreneurship and economy, Mrs. Dalic. However, the fact is that you can freely rename this e-impulse to "Di is money"? You could've done that right away. There's no money for people. Explains former Marasa's minister that this should be done explains Minister Former Maras that this should go through procedure, running, money has not yet come, this, Mr Horvat says they have come, but people cannot hire and create new goods. That's why young people go to Ireland, which is why young people have no hope. Because much more important is your argument in this case or because it's money. Why isn't that money in the E-impulse that you gave the name, which was called in 2016, yet to be realized? Why, that's the basic question? Is it 250 million kuna we could have had several hundred new jobs in Croatia, not Ireland. Maybe the best-quality people. And a key question for Minister Dalic and your former ministers, why are you cheating on entrepreneurs like this? 14 months of people waiting for that money, 84 days of standing in the halls and buying dust paper applications. And people, entrepreneurs, are the ones who create a new value. 250 million kuna should have been given to our entrepreneurs long ago. We haven't got one answer from you yet, I expect we'll get one. I can see you're sighing at these questions of mine, but MPs have the right to ask. Once again in the end, the Ministers' question. The current minister, Dalic, is on the ground and the main issue. Where's the money? 250 million kuna E-impulse for entrepreneurs. For hundreds of jobs, for entrepreneurs and small craftsmen. And I ask you a question, I expect an answer. I'm asking you a question, clearly and loudly to answer by not knowing which time, and they've also asked my colleagues. Where's the money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52100	Thank you, too. Does the promoter want to take the final word? Yeah, right? Yes, please, you must come here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52101	I think the debate is missed, it's about the 2016 report, and this complete exposure is related and will refer to the 2016 report. All other questions referred to are addressed to the wrong address. So Hamag Bicro isn't the one giving money or signing contracts. Passive ID missed. So, just briefly, recapitulation, in terms of finance, what we've funded, 400 million kuna of grants through 9 public calls. As regards guarantees, 254 million kuna, national guarantees, 10 million kuna, ESIF guarantees that were only yet to start in 2016, 12 million kunas of small loans were issued for 2 months in 2016 at an interest rate of 0.5 to 1.5%. The speed and deadline we are solving things is purely information for, therefore, two weeks for guarantees, 42 days for processing and paying off loans and these are issues concerning and which are referenced to 2016. So it's a summary of this report. Plus, I forgot 100 million kunas funded in innovation programmes in 2016. Well, that's final.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52102	Thank you very much. We have four replicas. First Mrs. Rostice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52103	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I would like to point out, because here we hear from all kinds of criticisms, that often no matter what I belong to this ruling coalition, I often take a critical look at various institutions, so yesterday I talked a little bit about FINA, in some tone where we pointed out what is negative and in HBOR, but I have to say what I do with a large number of entrepreneurs and producers, that when they cooperate with HAMAG to say that they are passing through and that these deadlines are really short, so given all these words we hear, I think it's important to highlight this part, although this debate is too long, I think it's still important that someone should say something positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52104	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52105	Thank you very much. I'm here, my colleague Roscic wasn't there, but I've said a lot of positive things, I wish you a lot of success, keep doing good work, I know it's a lot easier for you since Mr Horvat Minister, now you have the opportunity to work a little bit more flexible and not have too much... Mr. Vice President, but this isn't, you have gestures. [[- Intruder Radin, he can't hear.]] So I'm asking you not to do it, because you're distracting me in the debate. Okay. Then you can gesture but without sound supplements, and you had the same thing. [[No, I'm entering the controversy, but let me gesture.]] So here I am, once again commending HAMAG and I know that it is much simpler for him now because there are no such irrational requirements as the E-impulse, and I am convinced that work in the future will be good as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52106	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras. Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52107	Thank you very much. Mr. President of Hamag or the administration, we didn't get the answers to your inquiry. We didn't ask you to say much. Mostly people entrepreneurs expect that money, is your expertise in not answering that question, believing in your profession, believing that you know what it is, but layfully what entrepreneurs are asking me to do, have reported their projects. I ask you why they didn't get the money, which is why they care, in the halls and why what's called the e-impulse in 2016, which I said you could question – where are the money – because there is no money. What's important to the entrepreneur is that you explain to him what's going on? And to us MPs. What's with the MPs? When asked by those people who ran so we could explain it to them. You didn't want to answer these questions at all. But the fact is that 2016 e-mpulse is called and it's tied to this report, it's tied, it's part of you in this, part of it. Did you have to listen to Mr. Horvat's politics or Mrs. Dalic now, that's what I'm not going to do? I don't doubt your expertise, and that even less justifies you, not to tell us MPs here and to answer these questions. Because you as an agency should be independent, you should work in the interest of not politics, either. And the basic question for these people is why they didn't get that money, those who met the conditions, you didn't even answer these questions about possible lawsuits. So you're simply saying that you don't have this answer to that, thank you for not answering the questions of the MPs. And mostly you didn't answer where the money was?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52108	Mrs. Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52109	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I am going to answer the replicas of a colleague who wasn't here. So, I'm the first to praise the good stuff of HAMAG, starting with microcredit with a fixed interest rate of 0.9% pay-off 5 years starts 6 months that no one has in Croatia. And I will always praise what is good. But here we're just looking for answers to the question. And you can't tell me it's your fault if you're the ones who evaluate project proposals. And I'm asking, why does the evaluation last a year and two months? Then it's you who can give me the answer. And if I say there's an anonymous application, and we all know it's already been written in the papers, and the anonymous story report is based on, the person on professional training within the HAMAG who did... the project proposals then I ask you again, I'm not at the wrong address again. I'm asking you one last time to answer all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52110	Okay. Thank you very much. So, I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52111	Annual report by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments HAMAG BICRO for 2016. The applicant is the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The Annual Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments of HAMAG BICRO for 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 80 for, 4 abstentions, 11 against the conclusion proposed by the parent council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52112	- Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 12. The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? - Mrs. Crescent. Branka Ramljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52113	Dear Mr. Chairman, Vice President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Parliament. I have to say that it's an extraordinary honor for me to be here at the highest home, and even though I have one brief point, I hope in some way that I will challenge your attention so that we can all end this day together nicely. This is why I am here is an explanation about a member, a member of the National Council for Science and Higher Education, namely Mr Oliver Jukić, as a member of the National Council, has been elected to this large expert body that cares about the development of higher education of science and technology in the Republic of Croatia. However, he was appointed after a certain time to the Dean of the High School for Tourism Management and Informatics in Virovitica, and thus cannot be a member of the National Council. For this reason he was actually given on 6 April 2017. The Croatian Parliament has requested and has actually made a decision on the resolution of Dr. Oliver Yukic. By the way, dr. Oliver Jukic was a representative of the High School Council. Afterwards there was a clear appointment of a new member, a public call was made, a public call was carried out by the Ministry of Science and Education on a proposal from the Government of Croatia, and then it was actually from a certain number of applications received, the only one that met the conditions of Dr. Marcel Andreata Koren, who is the only candidate from the High School High School Council as a high school teacher. I now ask the honourable home to accept and it was also on the Assembly Committee to accept Mrs. Koren as the new member of the National Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52114	Thank you very much. Does Mrs Vesna Bedekovic want to explain the president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture? Okay. I'm opening a debate. The only one to answer is Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52115	Thank you, Vice President. Ramljak. I answered for only one reason, since I was discussing this topic and last time just pointing out the problem of women's sub-representation. And that's why I just answered, and I'm glad that and of course the SDP's club supports the proposed candidate, Professor. Marcel Andreat Koran. And what I want here will not last more than half a minute, say, once again to remind you that if we look at all students in Croatia, then it is 57% women. 57% of women study at universities, then of those 57% when we get to graduation we have the same percentage of men and women, 50% of women or men are graduates. After that, however, we have an interesting situation. At the university, 49% of women work at universities. The doctor of fame is also half, 50% male and 50% female. The assistants are 50%. However, docents 44%. Extraordinary teacher, 37%. She's a regular teacher, 24%. Rectors 17%. Deans 13%, and in the academy, in HAZ, only 8% of women. So, I wanted to show how when responsibility grows, the number of women decreases, and then we had our National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, where there were no women. Now, today we are correcting this injustice and I hope that according to such a large percentage in education and science, women will also be represented in the governing bodies as we now have the Honorable Minister Divjak and her team, where two women are on if I am not wrong with the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52116	Okay. We have two replicas. But Mr. Jovanovic, since I worked in that world for a long time, I have the impression that it has something to do with age. Yeah? So, the process is a clear equalization of women and men, and in all these references in the institutions that you spoke of are people who are still older than those of others, meaning in the academy regular professors etc. The process is clear. I mean, we lost the battle of men, and the women won, that's what we found. Here you go, Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52117	I'll just have one sentence. I won't be long. I kind of need to say, and I'm one of those percentages of reduced women in the leading positions, since I came from one of those positions, so from the point of view of the dean, and here I am glad that these discussions are moving forward. Since there's a late hour, I won't go any further. In any case, I would like to thank you for your support and good intentions, and finally here is a colleague who, from the ranks of the Council of the High Schools, is elected here defends the female population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52118	Mr. Jovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52119	Yes, I think we really need to insist on that and that we need to advocate that women's representation is as high as possible in all bodies where they decide on higher education, science and education as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52120	Thank you very much. Mr. Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52121	Mr. Vice President, I agree with Mr. Jovanovic that women need as much representation as possible, especially when we have greater imbalances in important bodies as the National Council for Science. But what I would like to emphasise is the importance of the National Council. Today we just had a formal signing of the Treaty for 373 million kuna for scientific centres of excellence in the process of which the National Council also participated. I think that's the one thing that should be highlighted in this High House. There, 101 top young scientists will find a job and hopefully stay in Croatia. I think it is one big step towards strengthening Croatian science in all these possible international rankings, etc. And what I would point out, especially if it were there, is that in the first half of this year, a stalemate that has become with these centres of excellence has been removed, which allowed us to have this solemn signing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52122	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52123	Thank you very much. Well, then I'd like to brag. Since during the period I was a minister, this structure of the National Council for Science, Higher Education, Technological Development was established, which is actually a key body that considers the future of Croatian science, higher education and technology. We therefore expect it to be as proactive as possible and to have a greater impact on the future of Croatian higher education, science and technology.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52124	Now let's boast about ourselves. Now we have a minister of the same woman, too, so there are certain... Will you have the closing word? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no need. Thank you very much. So I'm concluding a debate that was finally positive and we'll vote when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52125	Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the National Council for Higher Education and Technological Development Science. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 85 votes for and 7 abstentions have been decided to appoint a member of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52126	(a)The proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War (b) The proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Vice-President and part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 2 of the Act. Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. The debate was conducted by two committees, for veterans and for education, science and culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? No, I don't. Okay. I'm opening a debate. There's no argument. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The committee's reporters won't take the floor. I open and close the debate at the same time. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52127	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Vice-President and part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, under A and B of the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Vice-President and part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting. First Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. Please let us vote. I note that most of the 91 votes for and 1 abstentions were decided on the resolution of the Vice-President and part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I am voting on a motion for a decision to appoint a Vice-President and part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, please vote. I note that, unanimously, 92 votes for the decision to appoint a vice president and part of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War are in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52128	- Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the drug-restraint Act here we have a speaker. However, the proposal for an act is the Club of Representatives of the SDP pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 170 Rules of Procedure. The debate on this legislative proposal will be conducted under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading. The government delivered it to the government. The debate was conducted by three committees – for legislation, health care, social policy and family, youth and sport. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation? I think it'll be Mr. Jovanovic. Yeah? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52129	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse, has several draft laws on amendments to the Law on drug abuse, have several objectives. The first of these goals is that we want to decriminalise the use of whole plants of industrial hemp and others, to ensure the cultivation of medical cannabis by the pharmaceutical industry. Therefore, this legislative proposal gives Croatian farmers the same right to produce and market hemp varieties acceptable to production due to the content of THC which does not exceed 0.2% and which is located on a single EU variety list as well as producers in other Member States. In this way, we want to significantly facilitate and significantly simplify the planting and use of hemp that does not exceed 0.2% for the purpose of producing food and food for animals, but also for the purposes of construction, cosmetic, textile, auto-industry, paper industry and biomass production for the production of biofuels. This change encourages the development of rural areas, as well as small entrepreneurship and economy as a whole. We also want to enable the cultivation of medical cannabis by the pharmaceutical industry that will enable its exports. Thirdly, in the last few years in the European Union in the Republic of Croatia, there has been a very rapid increase in new psychoactive substances that are not under legal control through early warning systems in the event of the emergence of new psychoactive substances, and we want to ensure more effective prevention and fight against these very dangerous new psychoactive substances. Fourthly, the new drug market is characterized by high dynamics. Services that directly work with drug users or drug addicts such as the Office for the Protection of Mental Health, Prevention of Abdominal Treatment of Addiction, the implementer of the damage reduction programme very often have the possibility to come through their users to own new psychoactive substances that are currently active among consumers. In consultations with the Ministry of Interior, the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up a draft protocol for the treatment of mental health, prevention, non-patient treatment of addiction and the implementer of the damage reduction programme in the event of arrival in possession of a sample of substances suspected of being a new psychoactive substance. However, given the existing legal rules governing the possession of drugs and the conduct of competent authorities in drug abuse proceedings, there are no conditions at this time for the implementation of the said Protocol. Therefore, the legislative proposal that we present today would allow the handling of authorised employees implementing prevention, treatment of withdrawal and reduction of damage in the case of coming into possession of samples of substances suspected of a new psychoactive substance. Fifthly, since the conditions for the destruction of drug-deprived drugs are laid down by the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse only refers to criminal cases, problems have arisen for the destruction of drugs seized in criminal proceedings. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the prevention of drug abuse, the drugs seized in criminal proceedings cannot be destroyed at the end of a period of 3 years, but only by the power of judgment or a solution, and the provision does not cover any substance prohibited in sport described in Article 191. The destruction of drugs by the power of judgment or solution significantly extends the time-limit of mandatory storage and storage of drugs, making it a matter of additional costs and difficulties in the work and functioning of the Centre for Forensic Studies, Research and Skills Ivan Vučetic of the Ministry of the Interior. The fifth, sixth, proposed amendments to the law provide for the suspension of the issue of a special authorisation for the transport of drugs through the territory of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with other Member States of the European Union, respecting the principle of freedom of movement of goods within the European Union and of the European Economic Area. With this legislative proposal there are no financial effects on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and we are achieving benefits both for our producers and for all those who are trying to fight more successfully with drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52130	Thank you, too, Mr. Jovanovic. The committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Now we do. Does the government's representative want to take Mr Tomislav Dulibic to his opinion? Not now, okay. We're on our way to a debate. So it's in front of the clubs. Ivan Willibor Sincic, he's not losing his right. Cressa Beljak, he's gone, he's losing his right. Ivan Celic, come in front of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52131	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse. The law was passed in 2001, after which there were seven amendments to what it says about how this law needs to be amended and in this sense, the Ministry of Health will propose a new Law on drug abuse. It should also indicate that the development of a national strategy to combat addiction for the period 2018 to 2023 and the national action plan to combat dependence from 2018 to 2020. I will share this exhibit in two parts, look back at the consumption of cannabis and cannabis problems, and also on the area of new psychoactive substances mentioned by my colleague Jovanovic. The European Monitoring Agency for Drugs and Drug Addictions publishes its European Report each year, and the 2017 statement highlights the growing threats posed by new and existing psychoactive substances. So, what are the biggest problems with this report, the European report, therefore, is the increase in death from overdose, the continued availability of new psychoactive substances and the growing threat of health from extremely potent synthetic opiates. The impact of drug-related problems is a major challenge for European societies over 90 million Europeans have tried an illicit remedy and are fatal from an overdose on the rise in the third year in a row. Between 2009 and 2016, 25 extremely potent opiates have been detected and a very small amount is needed to produce thousands of doses, a growing threat to health. New psychoactive substances or new drugs pose a significant problem of public health in Europe because they are not covered by international drug control and include a wide range of synthetic drugs. The early warning system of the European Union in 2016 revealed for the first time 66 new psychoactive substances and in this respect it is necessary to define these new psychoactive substances. The latest results suggest that a reaction to new psychoactive substances such as new legislation and measures aimed at the main distributors selling these products may affect the emergence of new psychoactive substances on the market. New legislation in some Member States, for example. General prohibitions, generic and analogue-based controls have created a more restrictive legal environment in which there will be fewer reasons for producers to play cats and mice with regulators, and innovation will precede control. The implementation of laws and control measures aimed at monitoring the laboratories of new psychoactive substances in China may also contribute to reducing this problem. Recent changes to the cannabis regulatory framework that are emerging in North and South America have spurred the interest of policymakers and the public in Europe. It is necessary to wait for more detailed evaluations to be carried out before it is possible to assess the relative advantages and disadvantages of different approaches to cannabis policies. In the 28 Member States of the European Union, the current approaches to the regulation of cannabis and the use of restrictive models to the tolerance of certain types of personal use differ. However, what is important to emphasise is that no national government in Europe has expressed support for the legalisation of personal use cannabis. Regardless of the wider impact on drug policy, the existence of a commercially regulated cannabis market in some countries outside Europe encourages innovation and product development that can eventually affect patterns of use in Europe. The report stresses the importance of monitoring and the need to assess potential implications for the health of any future changes. The increase in the frequency of marijuana consumption is linked to the decriminalisation of cannabis and discussions on the legalisation of medical marijuana. This is the main conclusion of the research carried out at the Institute of Social Sciences Ivo Pilar, carried out by Renata Glavak Tkalić. Why am I bringing this up? Therefore, this problem is very complex and, in that proposal, it would be regulated by the adoption of a sublegal act by law, supervision, processing and transport of hemp with high THC content for medical purposes. Because of its complexity, this area has been regulated primarily by international conventions and, for these reasons, it is not possible to regulate such extensive and complex matter as cultivation, control and processing of cannabis by means of a sublegal act, but rather to regulate it by law. It is also proposed to exempt hemp with a low THC content of up to 0.2% of the drug abuse law, given the morphological resemblance of both hemps and those with low content compared to those with high THC content, which is practically impossible to distinguish without additional laboratory analysis, which opens up the possibility of abuse, we believe that such a legal solution is not acceptable. The law on the prevention of drug abuse has the primary objective of preventing drug abuse in order to protect public health and we believe that this problem cannot be resolved on a partial or unilateral basis. What is also missing in these legal changes and additions to the drug abuse laws, it is a matter of a single national drug information system. According to the results of the evaluation carried out by the Trimbos Institute from the Netherlands, this is exactly what the lack of a national information system or its functionality is, above all, insufficient for those who work with drug addicts as one of the main criteria, although when we look here today, it is 50 years from the euro-transplant, what I would dare say is that the Croatian national medical brand as we are successful on transplants we are also successful in the system of treatment of opiate addicts, and an even greater success will be with the establishment of a functional national drug information system by respecting the Personal Data Protection Act. Therefore, the proposal that veterinary medicinal products containing narcotics be transferred to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture is not acceptable. In recent times, the increasing incidence of the abuse of ketamine has been recorded, therefore, anaesthetics used in animals, in horses and their abuse in persons exposed to the use of intoxicating drugs, so it definitely shows us a growing incidence that it would not be good to go into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture rather than to remain at the level of the Ministry of Health or at the level of this law on drug abuse. With respect to the fact that it is a complex problem which is in the jurisdiction of several resolutions and about which it is necessary to reach a consensus of all competent authorities, we are not able to accept that bill and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club cannot support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the control of drug abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52132	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I must first of all conclude that I am glad to discuss opposition legal proposals, although in this late hour, but I cannot accept the escape of your majority, every time the opposition suggests something, you reject it with an explanation. That's not good. We will propose a law that will resolve it not with some radically different outcome. We also received this explanation when we proposed the Law on ratification of the Istanbul Convention. The Ministry is working on our law. Now we get that argument even when we're discussing drug abuse laws. You've got abuses and now you've got a colleague. The abuses won't go away if we have a restrictive law they'll move on. This can also improve industry, and as my colleague Jovanovic used to say before me, so food, food for animals, biofuels, building materials, etc. etc. etc. But this isn't just the essence of our proposal, it's also new drugs. The drug market is extremely dynamic, new substances appear on the market very quickly and sometimes it is important to react quickly and efficiently, this would allow our legal proposal. So I don't know what the problem is?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52134	Sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52135	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I don't know if you followed what I was saying, so it is definitely necessary to define the concept of a new psychoactive substance or new drugs. And it's a good thing that there's a bill on amendments and additions to the law, that part is not a problem at all. However, when you talk about production, therefore, the planting of industrial hemp with low content of thca, therefore, because of the possibility of abuse, and we do not think that this is a legal solution, because the morphological likeness of both hemp definitely requires us to remain in the area of the Law on drug abuse, although the licenses for planting hemp with low content of thca, where you refer to this economic aspect of industrial hemp production, there is no application of the United Nations Convention on drug trafficking, psychotropic substances and precursors, but must remain therefore, I am not in favour of punishing and support therefore, the difference that the penalty should primarily be directed towards drug dealers, to those who distribute drugs, and not to those who are unfortunately subject to an addictive pattern of behaviour. So, however, there should be some research to be taken into account and today many non-professionals are talking about the fact that marijuana cures all, there are medical indications when we talk about the use of medical cannabis and where there are medical indications in the context of evidence-based medicine, this is absolutely indicated. But we must also not succumb to sensational writings that medical marijuana can treat everyone. Therefore, changes and additions are needed, I agree with that, but the Ministry of Health is preparing a full law on the prevention of drug abuse where these new psychoactive substances and all the dangers behind that idea will be covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52136	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52137	Comrade Cellic, I know you actually agree with our proposal, but that's the party's discipline, and you have to say you don't support it. Because that the Ministry of Health seriously thinks what would have already proposed this whole law since our legal proposal is that the opposition proposals have always been at the bottom of the agenda in the process for more than a year. Therefore, there was enough time for the Ministry of Health to draft a new law and to insert in it all the parts of our proposal that it considers to be good. So, I think the public's work should be made clear that production of industrial hemp and medical hemp production are completely different things. So, you can't talk about abuse for the simple reason that if someone had permission to produce medical cannabis, it could be for example. Immunological institute, so it might help save him. Medical hemp is grown in strictly controlled conditions, in closed halls unlike the industrial hemp we know is growing in the fresh air in the field. When it comes to medical cannabis, I think there is no sensationalism in Croatia, we have a commission that has accurately assessed what indications medical cannabis can help, where it is clearly said that it does not treat but helps people who have child epilepsy, multi-sclerosis, malignant diseases and AIDS as auxiliary transportive therapy. Therefore, I am sorry that you do not support this law for the simple reason that the Ministry of Health has not shown enough initiative to come forward with its proposal in the course of these years as long as our law is in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52138	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52139	... Let me, as a man who's been working with opiate addicts for 15 years, know more about this area and say those changes that are good, they're good, but I wouldn't agree to this subject about production, the traffic of hemp with high content of thca for medical purposes regardless of your good intentions. [[Specially enabled.]] And I say the changes are needed because it's been a long time, so it's been rapidly changing in that area and the new challenges associated with new psychoactive substances, along with psychostimulative drugs, have changed a lot over the past five years. I say there is a need for a new whole law on drug abuse and I believe that those good items that have been proposed in these amendments and amendments to the drug abuse laws because I have no doubt that these have been done by professional and competent people who have prepared this legal proposal on your part, that this will be incorporated into a new whole law on the prevention of drug abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52140	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic wants to speak on behalf of the SDP? Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52141	Thank you, Chairman. So just a few more brief notes on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, where we want to say that our legal proposal has four key messages. So we want to decriminalise the use of the entire plant of industrial hemp, we want to enable the cultivation of medical cannabis by industry farms in the Republic of Croatia, and I repeat once again that there is a complete difference between industrial hemp and medical hemp. We want what we consider perhaps the most important in our proposal, to facilitate early detection and control of new synthetic drugs on the Croatian market as well as to help facilitate the conditions for the destruction of drugs that have been seized. Otherwise, when we talk about industrial hemp, it should be pointed out that Croatia has a great experience and tradition of growing white opium macaque from the former country, for example. On the basis of this, Macedonia is today one of the largest exporters of morphine. So we consider that if we have already had experience so that there is no problem in Croatia providing conditions for the cultivation of medical hemp. As far as industrial hemp is concerned, only seeds are now used and it is actually possible to produce about a hundred different products, while using the whole plant would increase that number to several tens of thousands. Currently in Croatia, the production of hemp industry is 650 hectares, and it is estimated that, after accepting our legal proposal, this area would immediately jump to a thousand and 500 in the first year. Otherwise gross income per hectare of industrial hemp is 10 to 12 thousand kuna. What I want to point out once again is what my colleague Cellic was talking about, which is extremely dangerous and these are new psychoactive substances. In the last 5 years, 70% of new psychoactive substances are on the market, with 60% of them being synthetic canons and cannebinoids. What we are particularly concerned about and why we insisted on this proposal and we appeal to support it, which all research has shown that in Croatia young people are above the average of those who enjoy these new synthetic drugs that are all present, and in fact they are not currently being fought successfully and increasingly cheap. So once again, we appeal for this law to be supported. And if the Department of Health has good intentions and doesn't want to support our law, let them make a new drug-restriction bill as soon as possible. And what we heard today in the public health hearing that should become a general practice, so when we pass one law to make immediately with it all the sublegal acts resulting from that law. I think it's a good way to solve every problem in a whole and quality way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52142	Mr. Babic is looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52143	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I actually wanted to replicate Dr. My cell, but here's what happened that you didn't see it, so I'll tell my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52144	But you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52145	No, no. It's all right. But I'm replicating my colleagues to Jovanovic. I actually understood this last thing you said, actually it's always good if one such whole law is passed to bring in sublegal acts and I absolutely agree with you. I want to say in favour of this debate, I know it's late hours, it's not watching, say, parents whose children are addicts. It all kind of starts with marijuana, and it's still ringing in both the ears and the public. As far as I know, 70% of people seized in the Republic of Croatia are mostly marijuana, and 38% of all total incomes are related to the amount of money they are related to marijuana. Something you said was actually medical hemp is produced in closed spaces, and industrial in open spaces that it can't actually be about that marijuana that's actually on the drug market. I, as far as I know or have misunderstood you at least in an area where I'm the police mostly confiscate marijuana that's in the open area. If I'm wrong, I'd like you to correct me. And one more thing, you might know that, and I wanted to ask, in the government's opinion, is that respecting the fact that animal anaesthesia is mainly used by human anaesthetics as well as the fact that for all medicines containing other psychotropic substances, whether human or veterinary medicinal products are authorised as reports according to the International Committee on Narcotics should be delivered to the Ministry of Health, not the Ministry of Agriculture. I don't really know what he's thinking. What are you thinking about here? I'd like that if you could tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52146	Yes, Mr. Jovanovic wants to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52147	Thank you very much. Yes, my colleague Babic, what you are, so you are right about us among the young is the most representative marijuana. 70% of all the seizures refer to marijuana. And I hope that today's debate that speaks of some Benefits of medical cannabis will in no way encourage anyone to abuse and enjoy this intoxicating tool. You're right. Part of the people who grow marijuana stems for personal use do so in the open air. But when we talk about medical cannabis, in order for it to be used for medical purposes, it must be grown in strictly controlled conditions and exactly in closed spaces. So there are exact calculations of what the Immunological Institute should have, in which way it could grow medical hemp which is completely different from the industrial one above all and by the level of THC that is in industrial hemp below 0.2%, and of course in medical cannabis has a completely different composition.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52148	Okay. Mr. Stjepan Curaj, the club of representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52149	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll try to be as short as I can in these tiny hours. So, first of all, about the very proposal that's right here in front of us. In principle, with the above-mentioned and basic HNS settings, I absolutely agree, so as to decriminalise the general use of hemp, and later cannabis for medical or industrial purposes. What is also highlighted here in the proposal on new drugs, disclosures, legislative regulations, of course, we welcome and, of course, everything that is stated. What we must also agree on is the opinion we have received not only to stand on this, so our position remains and my personal is that we still need to advocate decriminalisation, legalisation of cannabis and personal use, therefore not medically, because we know that this here is mentioned one study, and we have others, that it has positive experience and other countries, and that it primarily leads to the separation of users from the criminal environment through the release of police and judiciary in order to effectively fight serious and more dangerous forms of crime to achieve tax revenues and control trade in cannabis as a significant income for the state budget, and later these funds can be used for health and education. But the subject here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse and what we must also agree that we accept that this is a complex problem that must be addressed through a series as here in the opinion of the listed ministries of health, justice, home affairs, finance, customs administration, agriculture if we are talking about the cultivation itself, therefore, that it is not enough to change this law, and also what is said about international conventions and sublaws, we can accept. Here we appeal indeed, to find the whole solution on the trail of these proposals that we will absolutely when it is arranged in the way that it should be arranged, absolutely and supported of course. We think that this is one space for development and agriculture when we talk about industrial hemp, of course, by respecting all these remarks, I think we really need to sit down and make a quality proposal that will be consistent with the norms. We've heard on the board that these things require the establishment of a special competent authority to carry out production or an agency if I'm not mistaken, so it's not contained here either. So, we mustn't be too quick, it's not just any kind of thing, chasing only by amending one law, obviously it's a complex problem that needs to be systematically arranged and preferably prepared for the one step more that we hope to experience here in Croatia. Therefore, unfortunately, the HNS Club will not be able to support this proposal. However, we appeal to continue to include it and to systematically regulate it as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52150	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Curai, very short. So, since two-thirds of all crimes related to intoxicating drugs are related to marijuana, there should be caution. So I'm not about to victimize marijuana consumption to send them to prisons, and I welcome the legislative changes. However, we now have one situation that is not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in all of Europe, therefore, we have on one side socially acceptable drugs such as tobacco and alcohol and we have illegal psychoactive substances, marijuana is now somewhere in the interspace so that it can end up among socially acceptable drugs, and therefore, it should be pointed out that the most rapid effect on the brain of a young man has marijuana. Heroin will never lead you to psychosis, marijuana will. In those vulnerabilities, however, this does not mean that the vast majority of those who consume marijuana will not have such serious mental disorders but one study from Sweden... the Institute therefore, the consumption of marijuana up to five times was a trigger for the development of acute psychotic disorder in young people. So, careful with the marijuana talk and giving and full information, complete information, and not any sensational writings from the yellow press.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52152	Here's your answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52153	Here's a thank you, colleague Cellic. So, first of all, in your replica, you mentioned that alcohol and tobacco are like drugs, so I wouldn't know you right now whether it's an exact classification, but that different studies have shown that these very harmful effects of marijuana are much smaller than alcohol and tobacco, or nicotine, and that these particular side effects can also occur with alcohol. Of course, that we are aware of the moment, of course, even in the former government where we also had the same attitudes, we have not been able to agree on it and put it on the agenda, so I don't expect it to go so easily in this government, but we are not giving up on these things, and we certainly hope that through further analysis and examples of the countries that have it, where the exact costs of treatment and application and all of that benefit that it brings to the budget itself, but of course these health potential problems can certainly lead to the conclusion that this is one direction in which we could go in some future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52154	22 hours 29 minutes and 15 seconds, there are 6 of us with me who can't talk. Here you go, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52155	I'm really gonna be short. Look, buddy, I was optimistic when you started the debate, and I expected you to start because I know your party's attitudes, but I have to admit that in the end I am disappointed, which was appealed by my colleague Jovanovic, I would pray that you really advocate that we have a very similar legislative proposal soon on the benches that will come from the government. We're willing to support him if he's really progressive and on track to what we're proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52156	counterpart Hajdukovic still has his exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52157	Very, very short. I am sorry that we are discussing this matter so late, it would have been much better if we had discussed it earlier and because of the public's interest and the fact that this is a really important law not only from a health aspect but also from the economic point of view of both counterpart Jovanovic and co-worker Curaj. And I'm sorry to hear that there is no will by the majority to support this law. There are always excuses that we get that the government will propose a very similar law in the very near future but we do not see those laws. So, let's say if we talk about the Istanbul Convention, if we're talking about this law in particular and we haven't got it on the table yet. And a lot of criticism has been referred here to our non-ratification of the Istanbul Convention and the fact is that almost all of our neighbours have already had it if they haven't all ratified. So, I would appeal first of all to the responsible behaviour of the ruling that the apriori does not reject everything that comes from the opposition because it is not all bad, as we are willing to support certain things that we think are good for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52158	Thank you. You have one replica of Mr. Jovanovic. Do you know that, Mr. Jovanovic, you have the right to the final word?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52159	Yeah. So, colleague Hajdukovic, what I was going to tell you in the end, I'm going to use the replica to you. So this law of ours has in no way challenged the need to prevent drug abuse. So, there's one saying that best describes addiction to me, so the drug is a path without a return that starts with a man taking drugs, then the drug asks for drugs, and eventually the drug takes a man. So it's crucial right now in prevention, and prevention is the most successful if it starts from kindergarten and lasts practically to a nursing home where one of the key roles is also health education with a module of illness and addiction. As much as some object to it, it is actually the most successful way to prevent drug abuse in the long term.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52160	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52161	In the end, we always agree that education is the key, and if we are also guided by an economic calculation, the kuna is invested in the prevention of 4 kunas saved in recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52162	Are we closing the debate or are you trying to say something else in the end? All right. We're closing the debate. As Mr. Bukarica advises me all the time and we will vote when the conditions are met. For tomorrow's proposal for a decision to set up a child rights award committee. Here you go and breed, I think. Session adjourned at 2223 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-05-0.u52163	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on drug abuse, first reading, P.Z. No.82. the applicant is a SDP representative club. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 70 for, 19 abstentions and 5 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
