ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47020	We've got break applications. The first, slowly alone, means co-worker Glasnović and colleague Lovrinović, and co-worker Strenja-Linić, a colleague of Dodig. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47021	Defeat and discrimination in the public space of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47022	Mr. President, I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club Let's change Croatia to warn the public about how the situation in Agrokor affects the deterioration of security, national security and position in the geopolitical position in Croatia, the region and the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47023	You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47024	I am looking for a break to discuss the situation of doctors in Croatia who are essentially health system holders, but in the current situation that needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47025	Thank you. Just please, the microphone please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47026	... HDS is looking for a break to talk and make some suggestions about this summer's fire in Croatia and a proposal that should systematically be done not to make this happen. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47027	Thank you. A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47028	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, I want to talk about the government's opinion of the law that I have proposed and put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47029	That's it. It's a nine-fifty stop. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first came to the floor of the esteemed colleague Željko Glasnovic on behalf of the Independent for Croatia Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47031	Dear colleagues. In Croatia, there is now one increase in discrimination in Croatia that no one is talking about, and one culture of hatred for Croats outside the country and Croats in BiH has been observed in Croatia for a long time. What is the genealogy of this discrimination? It's just the 1990s, and before the '90s, you have statistics, for example. in the MUP, in the 1990s, 50% of employees in Zagreb of Serbian nationality, union management 61% of Serbian nationality, JNA officers 80%, etc. diplomacy mostly Serbian personnel. And what's going on? People want to invest here when the word "returner" is heard who's coming here, people are coming back, they're at a socialist red tape, they can't get a housewife for two years, citizenship for three years. And some troglogs in public space in Croatia are demanding that three seats be abolished for the Croatian diaspora, unimaginable. They should primarily know that the Croatian diaspora is the largest business branch in Croatia, and there comes a minimum of 16 billion kuna every year as registered. These people lobbyed for Croatia, you have six Croatian generals who came from the diaspora here. Outside is waiting for the whole brain trust to return to Croatia, for them it is not possible to get citizenship. Only since '92. Until '94. The Croatian diaspora gave $660m for the Croatian state's weapons and these triglobites would ban Croats from having someone here in the House. It's a continuation of what was in the 1970s where the gasters who called South that country a failed experiment of social, excess labour, today there's more than half a million out there, they're covering Yugoslavia's deficit, they're sending money here and they're holding that failed state on the infusion. It's the same today. A second generation of emigrants was created today, but these old ones are not desirable. You only have half a million Croats in Germany. Let's go to the Croats in BiH, there's a special war against the HVO without which we wouldn't be here today. Today they would be mujahedins down in the Pločas actually in the Neretva Valley, and they would also be in Split there in '92. A year. What right do these HVO majors have? A man from Konaval who was mobilized to the Italian army in '43. Today he receives a pension, and these people have been completely removed from these legal flows of the Croatian state. We disputed their pension, and no one knows of Bosnia's Posavina, Central Bosnia, for the northwestern Herzegovina for Herzegovina if it wasn't for these majors we wouldn't be sitting here today, in fact we'd all be somewhere in Malta. This discrimination, who are these people who are fighting this special war? Most of them sitting here on this side, they disguised themselves these former Yugoslavs in Croatia, walking there by consulates and representing their country as some kind of Ustasha, sitting here the fifth column of snitches. It was done there in the '70s, in the '60s, where 12% of people worked for UDUBA had two in each apartment building, they were still with us here because there was never a lustration, they were implemented... by laws. Do they know if they'd changed election law they'd never sit here again and we're not done with... In the end, as Catholics yesterday, Mr Spritz at RTL compared Leopold Mandic to Rolling Stones. So who's RTL? Who's funding that TV? What if he said that about the Islamic community, what would happen? Here come the artists, I quote artists from England to Croatia and say so we're having some kind of discomfort here, this is mostly a Catholic country to no one. An Englishman here at GONG, I think in these NGOs, mentions that Cardinal Bozanic is dying, son of a bitch. If I'd said that in England, what would have happened to me in England because there's the Queen of England. It's scary, it's gotta end. The Croats wake up, clean up with an iron broom and five-coloners from the country. [[Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47032	Thank you, colleague Glasnović. Thank you, I'm asking you to stick to the weather. After you is a distinguished colleague Ivan Lovrinović on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47033	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens. First of all, I want to warn the general public, the Croatian public that Agrokor is currently the biggest security problem of the Republic of Croatia. I repeat, it's the biggest security problem of the Republic of Croatia and that's not what we're talking about. And here I ask the question you see, there are various intelligence services in Croatia, the central institution is SOA, the Security Intelligence Agency. I've been studying some of the competences of SOA, and I've seen that they are among other things in charge of doing analysis on the economic threat of the Republic of Croatia. So I'm asking a question from this place in charge of the SOA and other agencies in charge of this country, did they make a timely security assessment of what happened in Agrokor because things didn't happen in one month? If there was a security check on what was going on in Agrokor, did the top RS officials get that report? If they got it, why didn't the Croatian public warn and report it? If there's no background check on what's going on in Agror, I'm asking why isn't it? Is it because SOA and other agencies have no quality people or maybe they don't have people for it at all, and if they have people for it, maybe they didn't think it was such an important problem for the Republic of Croatia. Let me ask you finally, is there any way you gentlemen know who will be the majority population in Slavonia in ten years and it's connected to Agrokora? How? Well, there's Belje, Pic Vinkovci, Pic Vukovar, the most fertile country. Well, whoever thinks our Slavons are moving out by accident is naive. If the international corporation takes over these Pics or takes over the concession from Agrokor, it will need labour, and these labour forces are gone now, I've been to Slavonia these days because people are mass evicting further. It's an exodus. They will need labour and that cheaper workforce and it will come from other countries. They asked me these days, so whether the Russians or Americans have in this case greater geostrategic, geopolitical interests in the case of Agrokor, so of course both but the most useful will have a third neighbouring country. While the Croatian public will get the impression of cheerleaders let's say one atmosphere is better these or them, and in the end the media will play such a role that it turns out that they are better than they are and therefore, what do I want to stress? One thing's said, one play is for the public and the respected citizens behind the hill are doing something big. I call on the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister, she seems to know the most about how many foreigners have filed lawsuits before international courts in the Agrokor case in a calm tone. For she hath spoken these days, and has been taken away from her, and has fled her, that the believers shall determine the fate of Agrokor. If that's the case, then I ask her a question, why in the first place, she subconsciously denied the need to bring Lex Agrokor. Then the question arises if belief will solve, what is the state doing there? Because you see the state there is doing nothing, so it just took one cloak to do something else there, and that's why I think that the investigative commission for Agrokor is necessary, I find it odd that in one party there are resistances to it, there are probably some people who are stuck in some things, I support such an investigative commission, and the more investigative committees, because we will thus democratisation our public transparently talk about what are Croatia's biggest problems and this is a major geopolitical and geoeconomic problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47034	Thank you. It is next to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Honorable Fellow of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47035	Dear colleagues and colleagues, time to talk again about what is a burning problem right now in the Croatian public, and this is what you should know that the sustainability of the health system in Croatia is such that without a doctor there could not be. Once again, it should be said that more than 1300 doctors have collected all the documentation to go outside Croatia, it has already gone over 560 of our doctors, and it is as if it were gone by the complete KBC Rijeka or KBC Split. It is currently known that 15% of specialists in 4 years will retire. And the job is done in such a way that three and a half million hours last year were done overtime to keep that system going. Of course, inspectors of the work of some of these prominent doctors, doctors who carry their hospitals, departments, reported that they worked more than 180 hours a year to be allowed overtime. And in all that light, at the moment there are negotiations on a border collective contract at the table, for which doctors will not sit again. So, on the rights of doctors, on their material rights and other rights, representatives of nurses, representatives of maids, physiotherapists, technical staff, but not this time, doctors will sit. Why? Due to the Law on Representativeship adopted on one hot July 2014, which our colleague proposed and if you are not more than 20% of the total staff in that activity, you do not have the right to sit at the table. But the system where 73,000 employees are in the system works between 9 and half to 10 thousand doctors. And if all doctors were members of the Doctor's Union, it wouldn't be enough for us to have the right to sit at the table. It's a momentary situation. I therefore call on Minister Milan Kujundzic and Minister Marko Pavic to sit at the table and urgently agree changes with doctors of course, and urgently agree to amend the Law on Representativeness before the adoption of the new Health Protection Act, as waiting for the new Health Protection Act will probably not have another reading finished before spring, and within that law, the minister said that the position of doctors and all their rights will be resolved. This should be an introduction to the adoption of a professional collective contract for doctors who, as you should know, Slovenia is 23 years old. No Romania but has most European countries or for the Professional Law on Doctors or some version that has been implemented in existing legislation. Therefore, by adopting a professional collective agreement, we will properly resolve the strategic importance of medical activity for the sustainability of the health system. I call upon you, I call upon those who may propose this law to propose it. If not, I think we're going to have to look for a deal inside the clubs to propose such a law, or amendments to the Law on Representativeness, to allow doctors to sit at the table and negotiate their rights. The only right is for the Croatian Medical Union to negotiate the rights of doctors because he is the only one representing them and so that negotiations on a border collective contract that starts in December can be joined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47036	Thank you. The fourth is the club of representatives of HDS, HSLS, HDSSB and respected counterpart Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47037	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you can see, there are hundreds of problems that we are partly guilty of, which we are completely guilty of and for which we are not to blame but are there for who they are. In an attempt to focus on what we can do by preventing certain negative events, which will take place in the future taught by what is happening so far, I will look back at all a dozen sentences on the topic of fire this summer in Dalmatia. You see the Adriatic area of Croatia is part of the nature of the cultural, economic, civilizational whole of the Mediterranean. More than a third of Croatia's entire territory is being wasteed in this area. If we count it as 2 million and 200 thousand hectares or 35.7% of Croatia's territory. Also, agricultural areas of the coast account for more than a third or 34.3% of total agricultural areas. Here you should definitely add the like area in view of the similar dry season during the summer. According to the said total karst area of Croatia, which poses a potential threat to fire during the summer, makes up half of Croatian territory. The electricity, gasification of our country and demographic deficits in this area are becoming less and less exploited by the wood mass for heating and daily cooking. On the other hand, a drastic reduction in the number of cattle, especially sheep, goats, cattle for the last fifty years, is that today in our coast we are faced with a problem of growing large areas of dense coastal vascaves such as scissors, etc. These are areas filled with biopotentials, however, which are used for wrong purposes. A particular problem is often widespread fires that spread in such dense and impenetrable vegetation. What is the practice in other Mediterranean countries? It is known that developed countries of the world have a clearly developed land management strategy and plant potential, and that almost every square metre has its purpose, which is unknown in Croatia. It is clear whether the land is fenced as land used as agricultural or forest land or has a tourist, construction or other economic purpose. Furthermore, countries have a clearly developed land management plan and plant resources. Unfortunately, land resources in our Adriatic area are beyond any management system. It cannot tell which countries are exploited as forests, which are intended for pasture or other purposes. The particular problem is most of the unsettled forest pastures, the surface. As a conclusion, we can point out that there is complete disorganization and song. Advanced and developed countries of the Mediterranean, such as France, Spain, Italy, Israel, in the last 30 years have invested a great deal in preventative fire protection to prevent or reduce to the least possible number of fires. In America, a new category was created almost into a scientific discipline of Polish forest management of agroforesty. And now with that in mind, the question is, what can we do? We learned to function by the type of improvisation. This is something we're doing well. We've made a good improvisation this summer, and it's for every praise that the improvisation of the population and the fire and the army, so I give each and every one of them a special confession. But as a representative in front of this House, I think that the Croatian Democratic Parties think that Croatia should bring a management strategy to all the land and plant potentials of our Adriatic area. In this sense, we propose, from the party, that the Ministry of Agriculture form an expert group from the above-mentioned professional, scientific areas in order to adopt a strategy for managing the land potentials of the Adriatic region of Croatia Thank you very much. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] So, as the first act, bring strategy Thank you very much. [[Breaking president: colleague Dodig!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47038	And the fifth debate of distinguished counterpart Goran Aleksic on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47039	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers Maric, colleagues and colleagues from the ministry and colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that the representatives of the government are here, the Ministry of Finance, because I want to talk about this particular issue first of all. Therefore, the laws that I have proposed and which would allow overpayments to be made out of court through debtors and other laws which would allow the final banks to agree with the debtors a fixed interest margin at an initial rate, rather than define it voluntarily, as was the case in the Government of the Republic of Croatia so far, have come under a negative assessment. The negative assessment is mainly explained by the fact that, by the fact that the government sees the laws as retroactive. Then this law, which returns the advance interest, that in one part it is contrary to the executive law. It is then objected that no assessment of the impact of the regulations has been made, it is argued that no opinion has been asked of the European Central Bank and is objecting to the fact that this creates one legal uncertainty in the Republic of Croatia. In short, I have to go back in time and tell you what's going on, why the laws are proposed. We all know that during 2011, the Swiss franc rose dramatically above the initial rate in loans in which the currency clause was agreed and we all who were burdened by these loans were headed for the court process. In the trial, we found that banks, except for the Swiss francs, negotiated in all loans, therefore, not only in loans with the currency clause, were francs, an illegal way of changing interest rates. On 13 June 2013, a final verdict was reached saying that 7 banks had negotiated an unfair way of changing the interest rate by decision of the bank. That such a way of negotiating the interest rate is unfair, that this is why it is harmful and that this is why the bank's behaviour continues. So the banks didn't stop acting like that. In fact, in early 2014, banks in the existing loan contracts voluntarily set the parameters for changing the interest rate. The CNB holds the lottery in this because the CNB has previously claimed that banks are allowed to change the interest rates voluntarily by their decision, and later claimed that banks have laughed at their own decisions to define the parameters. It's just not true. This is contrary to the Law on Mandatory Relations, in which it is decidently stated that contracts represent the will of 2 parties. So, what am I gonna do? I am ready, to accept certain criticisms from the Government and I have already raised questions about the assessment of the impact of the regulations and the question of the opinion of the European Central Bank. Since MPs should never have asked for this before, because there have already been such laws as to be proposed by MPs, no one has ever been burdened with such a remark, it has been put on me. According to the Law on Impact Assessment, lawmakers do not have to act, they act on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. However, I have asked the parliamentary service to instruct me on how to make the impact assessments of the regulations and the legislation office. I will also request the opinion of the European Central Bank after assessing the impact of the regulations. However, I must say that the opinion of the European Central Bank is not binding. So it's not binding. And as far as legal certainty is concerned, what legal certainty it is if at least 100,000 debtors still pay illegally increased interest rates today. Is that legal certainty? So, I appeal to the Minister of Finance, first of all, since it is the margins that we are talking about, and that we are trying to find common language, first and foremost, because HDZ is precisely you, Mr. Jandrokovic, you signed this, sent the association an official letter supporting the initiative to resolve the fixed interest margin in the initial amounts. The only thing HDZ does not support is retroactiveness, as the law would have been applied since 1.1.2014. We can discuss this, we can try to agree, but I argue that retroactiveness is gone, because the Constitutional Court said about it its decided opinion, when it assessed the conversion of credit from Swiss franc to euro. When he said, if the law acts on legal matters that are not completed, it is not retroactive, it is quasi-retroactiveness, it is unfair retroactiveness and such legislation is allowed in that case. So, I'll try to get these laws passed, if anything else we'll go to the voters, but I'd like to have a consensus and that's why I'll cooperate with the government as much as possible to solve it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47040	Thank you. This concludes the debate after the break and we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47041	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Yes, the esteemed representative of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47042	The Honorable Chairman. I am looking for a break in the problem of border crossings in the town of Metkovic and the crowds in the city itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47043	Okay. Anyone else? I see the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47044	I'm looking for a break from the dramatic state of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47045	Okay. Anyone else? I always stick to the Rules of Procedure, so we'll be ten minutes in 15.10. It's 3:01 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.10 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47047	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I didn't want to, the topic is local, so I didn't want to usurp space this morning because it was usually about some national topics, but it's a very big problem and it's a lot of money that's been spent and it's been spent on a border crossing that can't be put into a function that's dysfunctional, where there's already been a few accidents because I can't even get through the buses. It is the Metkovic border crossing, there is 20 million kuna invested, as I said in a location that is inappropriate, which is close, too close to the city centre of Metkovic, where already crowded and the border crossing is now about a mile away from the border crossing of this new one, which was built near the city centre. As early as 2014 in April, then mayor and today our colleague Bozo Petrov wrote to all the competent services, the Ministry of Finance, warned the Minister of Transport and everyone else that this border crossing, or location chosen, was not good, we also offered an alternative, that is the location of Djumruka which is closer to the current location of the border crossing, however it is not respected. In addition, the mayor at the time warned that building a border crossing in the area that was situated in front of the station towards the Republic of Croatia was inevitable, something that is ours and of great importance for the agriculture of our region, and although it was well explained, there was no relation, the construction of that border crossing and the new mayor who changed Boža Petrova, Katarina Ujdur sent letters to Minister Zdravko Maric, however, the Ministry of Finance and the Republic of Croatia, in the construction of that border crossing, gave 20 million kuna at an inadequate location and that the matter would be worse, the border crossing poorly carried out. As the City Administration of Metkovic, we insisted that this border crossing should not be granted a valid permit and it has not been obtained today because it has been badly carried out, and I am glad that here is the current mayor of the HDZ order, Dalibor Milan, that it is against that border crossing to obtain a useful license such as against all residents living on that street but also citizens of Metkovic because we, as you know, only have one bridge in the city that connects the two sides. Now by building a border crossing closer to the centre of the city of traffic that we have through the city itself, I have also organised several meetings and with Minister Butkovic about building another bridge and connecting Metkovic on the highway, but also these two projects will not solve this problem and definitely, no matter how much it costs, it is an assembly facility, it is necessary to consider that this border crossing should be moved towards BiH, of course there should be included by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we must not, because of this haste to enter Schengen as soon as possible, which is of course in everyone's interest, and what is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, we must not agree to an unfavourable situation by all the citizens of Metkovic and by the town of Metkovic. But that's not the only problem, here I was just before, and that's what made me talk about this problem, received a message from one of the residents of Mark Marulic Street, about that street you may have read about in the media, that's at the border crossing of the Gabela field, meaning the street that is all in the Republic of Croatia, whether the houses on the other side of that street have all the water and electricity connections and everything else, but they are in BiH. They have no access at all to their houses except across that street and it was even a plan and we somehow stopped to put the fences on that street, it came out and the Ministry of Internal Affairs contributed to the citizens, they were put on camera only, they were recorded, they rebelled against it too because it was almost like you were in Big Brother, every day filming you 0-24 on that street, people have no access from BiH to their houses, they have access only from the Republic, it's a specific situation. I've had two meetings on this issue, I knew about Minister Kovac, meaning the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also with Minister Davor Ivo Stier, but there's still nothing in motion, and I know that it's a sensitive issue because it's also about the movement of borders, but it certainly needs to be opened because these people really live in the ghetto and it's an unsustainable situation and we need to find a solution for them. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47048	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives' Club and the SNAGA, the Honorable Representative, Ivan Pernar, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47049	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I know that most of you have no existential problems except perhaps some that are under way because of some millions of loans, but I would like to read you a letter from a girl in Osijek, and he says: “Dear Mr. Pernar, I am speaking to you this way because I really can't keep my mouth shut anymore. As a citizen of the wonderful Republic of Croatia, I will give you my opinion in this mail and some views on everything I have seen, heard, read through the media of all kinds. So I was born on February 14, '94. In Osijek, where I live today, I try to survive, feed two small mouths that are not guilty of anything happening in our country, in our county, in the municipalities, in the city as I am. I wasn't in the war, I wasn't in the polls until I was 18, and I didn't want to go to the polls at all until recently because I didn't want to go to the elections at all, because I felt that my vote wouldn't be worth anything at all. But as time went on, I became aware that things would not change for the better but more and more to the worse. This is a very interesting thought. So people began to realize that with time flow, the situation in the country was getting worse. So the people are getting smaller, the children are getting smaller, the debt is getting bigger, the prices are getting bigger, etc. He says: “I had wonderful friends physically present in Osijek who had fled long ago in 2010 regardless of the new capital of Slavonia Dublin, Munich, Ulm, Edmonton, realizing that there was only a social case and pensioners around me. Unfortunately, I didn't have any, i.e. I got a chance to get a job because I don't vote for HDZ because I don't have parents, aunts, uncles, high-ranking grandmothers to push me into a company. Because I am not a child of a dead defender, because I am not a victim of this or that, but I am therefore a victim together with my children and my new family of hunger and misery, the poverty that Croatian parliamentarians have led to. They're doing a great job of running the country at 3:00 so I don't say what. I won't shut up anymore! I ran out of housing, because I didn't have a place to pay rent, direct, because before I fed my money in the gray economy, I gave the money to the lenders who didn't belong to them. Now I'm waiting for the air I breathe to get paid, so I have nothing to take it away from me. Back in 7, 8 years, I started working on black during my education. Of course it didn't produce any fruit permanently. The name itself says why. Wherever I apply to work as soon as they hear I've got two little kids, go straight away like I've got ham and not kids while you have kids. Well, then I don't have enough experience in that area. You're not kidding? How do we even get it when no one gives it a chance? Because I'm not cash-stained to pay for it. And some politician's daughter, right? things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm looking at how the state has been made beautiful by new highways, roads, empty buildings, living and business spaces, no matter what. I watch as they arrange bridges, build circular flows, gardens, say and restore ruins while thousands and thousands of young, old, children without jobs, roofs over their heads. More and more ugly events, while certain people sleep peacefully and receive a fat salary for nothing and disgust this air that we all breathe together. If you're not a Ustasha, your head hangs immediately. You're not getting a job, you've got nothing. So wait, was that what my father was fighting for? No, no, no. To further steal more of us together with other parties, to step on us, to kill us in the term, to kidnap us, to make us evil. Why did I decide to talk to you? There's you because for now I think you're the only one who's trying to change something. But besides living fossils, morons, liars and wonderful presidents of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, you can't do much. I wanted to ask you if you could give me the shirt I saw on you yesterday with KRADEZA. It's beautiful. And after that he says too much I have to say as a small-towner who eats too much, suffers from leading liars and who have led to the edge of poverty. And what I'm trying to tell you is that I have a question about life as many people in this country do. To us small people who just want to live peacefully, have a steady job, secure 35 square feet above their heads and every day fresh bread on the table and a quiet warm meal. I've really seen that it doesn't take people much to be happy, but we can't, even most importantly, because we have to rub our necks with fat geese. Respectfully, a sad twenty-three-year-old from Osijek. Until we're on our way. I've had her message delivered to you at heart to think about the consequences of your policy for the past 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u47050	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49175	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We continue to work, today is the first point we will discuss the Proposal for a Law on Audit, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 172. As I said, the item of the agenda is - Proposal for a Law on Audition, first reading, P.Z.E. No.172 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. Dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49177	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. Today there is a Proposal for a Law on Audit in the First Assembly Reading. Therefore, the proposed law is expressed in order to comply with the EU acquis. Two are key documents. On the one hand, this is the 2014 Directive, Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending then existing Directives 20106 on statutory audits, annual financial reports and consolidated financial reports and ensuring the application of the European Parliament and Council Regulation, also in 2014 on specific requirements relating to the relationship of legal audit, public-interest entities. For the first document, for the first directive, the colloquial but also essentially called the revision directive, this second revision regulation. The main objective of the audit directive and the audit regulation is to reform the legal audit system through increased transparency, strengthening public oversight of authorised auditors, improving the independence of authorised auditors in relation to the audited entity, improving internal, or internal organisational rules, improving the audit report, strengthening the role of audit committees and effective sanctioning systems. It should also be said that the deadline for the transposition of this Directive into national legislation was 17 June 2016 and Croatia, as well as some other member states, in late implementation, it is certainly no excuse for us to have made some other countries such as Slovenia, Greece, Cyprus, Estonia, Romania, Poland later and thereafter. I will say that the two key reasons why we were late on the one hand, is that well-known factor or fact that in the course of the drafting of this law and the transposition of the directive, we had twice parliamentary elections, but on the other hand we also need to mention one important element, which is that, in order to make the bill, we should have time and time, since the audit reform in the Republic of Croatia and before and after the parliamentary elections, has been approached very seriously with the participation of representatives of the state administration, audit experts and the academic community, and a detailed analysis of the practices of other Member States. The current model of public oversight of audits and its shortcomings and areas of need for improvement has been analysed, respecting the primary objective of the revision directive, which is to increase the quality of financial reports and strengthen the confidence of citizens and investors in the same. Also due to the high public interest of the primarily professional public, the draft law passed two public consultations, on the e-consultation website first from 8 August 2016 to 15 September 2017 and then from 20 June 2017 to 4 July 2017. In total, it was addressed to the authorities of the state administration and to professional associations. In total, we are talking about 23 institutions that have subsequently received this bill's opinion. The objectives of the audit directive, which are intended to achieve transposition into national legislation, highlight greater transparency and predictability of requirements applicable to persons carrying out statutory audits in order to strengthen their independence on the one hand, but also their objectivity in carrying out tasks, to strengthen the work oversight of authorised auditors and audit firms, to strengthen the independence of the public supervisory authority over authorised auditors and audit companies and to give them adequate powers, including the power to carry out investigations and powers to determine sanctions, to highlight the independence of that body from the audit profession, with the possibility of delegation of certain tasks, and to improve the independence of authorised auditors and audit firms in relation to the audited entity as a key element in carrying out legal audits, taking into account the concept of the network in which authorised auditors and audit firms operate. The draft law sets out in more detail the content of the audit report, strengthens the role of the audit committees, encourages registration, infringements of regulations and, in particular, a more effective sanctioning system followed by the prescribed amount of fines so that it can and must have a dissuasive effect and prevent and correct inappropriate implementation of the statutory audit. In view of the high importance of public-interest entities and the need to further strengthen the credibility of the financial reports of such entities which are subject to the revision of the draft law also contain specific provisions on legal audits of public-interest entities. Since the improvement of supervision has been identified as a key issue that the draft law had to regulate, and yet I repeat in accordance with both the directives and the regulations, it is decided to regulate a new and unique or one supervisory body which will be authorised to oversee audit companies that audit public-interest entities and audit companies, which do not audit public-interest entities. The new role of the Croatian Audit Chamber is also a more detailed regulation of sanctioning, the transition from the existing system to new issues that required additional time in the drafting of the draft law and also contributed to the full transposition of the Republic of Croatia's revision directive into its national legislation. Before I move on to the specific papers and news of this Review Act, allow me just a few words about the situation today. 222 audit companies and 959 authorised auditors are registered in the Republic of Croatia. According to the Croatian Audit Chamber statistics, of the number 959, 497 are active and 462 has inactive status. There are no registered independent auditors and joint audit offices. The total revenues of audit companies for 2015 were made at 506 million 476 thousand 365 kuna. In connection with the organisation of the existing system, it needs to be pointed out that according to the current Law on Audit, I will repeat that it was adopted in 2005 in addition to, of course, amendments and amendments 2008, 2012 monitoring and verification of the quality of the work of audit firms of independent and authorised auditors carried out by the Croatian Audit Chamber. The Assembly of the Croatian Audit Chamber shall be composed of authorised auditors. The administrative board of the Croatian Audit Office is composed of authorised auditors except one representative of the Ministry of Finance. The Committee for Public Control of Audits, which oversees Croatia's audit chamber, is responsible for the public oversight of audits. With this law, we move to the most important news in the law, so for the purpose of achieving the basic objectives of the audit directive and the audit regulation, the following is proposed: First, the new supervisory role of the Ministry of Finance. Compared to the current law, this may be one of the most significant changes since so far the Croatian Audit Chamber has carried out quality checks of work, and the Committee on Public Control of Audit and Public Control of the Croatian Audit Chamber, Audit Society, Independent and Authorised Auditors. Since the following requirements of the Regulation, the Court of Auditors can no longer exercise control over audit firms that carry out legal audits of public-interest entities, the Ministry of Finance has been designated in the Proposal for a Law on Audit as a supervisory body which fulfils all the necessary conditions under the Auditing Directive and in the Regulation, and that the supervisory function for the sake of efficiency and economy of supervision would be united in one body by applying a single supervisory procedure and supervisory measures against all authorised auditors and audit firms, whether or not they carry out an audit of entities of public interest. The same solution has been applied in some other Member States, I will mention the cases and examples of Hungary, Poland and Germany. To that end, the resources in the State budget for 2018 and, of course, all other years will be provided for. It is important to note that the supervision of audit firms is carried out at least once in three years in those who audit public-interest entities and at least once in six years in those who do not audit the entities of log-out interest. The Ministry of Finance, as the body responsible for the supervision of the regulation and/or supervision of the authorised auditors, independent auditors and audit firms, will also carry out the following. To issue and withdraw authorisation for the work of an authorised auditor, an audit company from the Republic of Croatia, another Member State and a third country, to keep registers and other records and to participate in the procedures of the European Commission in relation to the adoption of international audit standards. In accordance with the requirements of transparency, the statutory audit directive and the regulation, the Ministry of Finance shall develop an annual work programme no later than the beginning of the calendar year for which the annual work plan applies and the Annual Work Report. With this law, the Committee on Public Control of Audits will stop working, the Ministry of Finance will take over its tasks and part of the task of the Croatian Audit Chamber already mentioned approval for work, registers, supervision, or supervisory measures. The second paper is an approval for work. Detailed authorisation for the work of an authorised auditor as well as the reasons for the withdrawal of the authorisation for work. Therefore, the applicable law provides for the withdrawal of the authorisation of an audit company and an independent auditor, but no authorisation for the work of an authorised auditor is required, which means that that natural person could not even be prohibited from performing audit services. The conditions for obtaining the authorisation for the work of an authorised auditor shall be laid down an audit exam which will organise and implement the Croatian Audit Chamber under the rules prescribed by the Minister of Finance, with the fulfilment of the requirement of good reputation. Furthermore, the reasons for the withdrawal of the authorisation for the work of an authorised auditor, an audit company from the Republic of Croatia, or another Member State and a third country, have been laid down. The third point is stricter conditions for access to the audit exam. This law lays down stricter conditions for access to the audit exam, in force law required three years of working experience in audit operations, at least two of which with the mentorship of an authorised auditor. Five years of work experience is now prescribed, of which three years with the mentorship of an authorised auditor. The fourth point is continuous professional training. A permanent professional training obligation has been confirmed to an authorised auditor in the field of the performance of audit services for at least 120 hours within an uninterrupted period of three years starting from the date of issue of the work authorisation. However, the novelty is also that in the event of non-fulfilment of continuous professional training over a period of three years, the authorised auditor loses his authorisation to work. The authorised auditor may only re-enact approval if he submits a specific examination. The continued education of authorised auditors is of paramount importance for the improvement of the audit profession in view of to the frequency of amendments to accounting and audit standards and tax regulations. [[The incursion president: Just a minute, colleague Bulj, I would beg you a little more quietly or step outside.]] The finance ministry will approve programmes that will meet the requirements for continuous training. Fourth item, the paper is keeping a register. These laws of the person to whom the Ministry of Finance has granted work approval, or who has granted registration, must be entered in the registers kept by the Ministry of Finance. There are a number of these registers, I am talking about a single register, but, of course, a separate register of audit companies, independent auditors, authorised auditors, auditors, audit companies, authorised auditors from other Member States, authorised auditors from third countries, and audit entities in a third country, as well as a register of auditors in a third country will be conducted in that register. So far, the registers have been run by the Croatian Audit Chamber. The conditions for independence are also laid down, this law lays down detailed provisions regarding the independence of professional ethics and skepticism, the prohibition of the employment of an authorised auditor with the audited entity, the assessment of the threat of independence of the internal organisation of audit societies and the organisation of audit work. The obligation to keep an audit secret is also prescribed. The audit firm shall, as an audit secret, keep all the information it has learned by performing audit services. It is then the point of the 6th non-audit service. It is prescribed that an audit firm carrying out a statutory audit, a public-interest entity and all members of the network in which the audit firm belongs shall not provide any direct or indirect, audited entity, its parent company or companies under its control in a Member State of any non-audit service. This law confirms the list of prohibited non-audit services for audit firms auditing entities of public interest to that auditory regulation, I am talking about tax services, accounting services, wage accounting services, value assessment services, legal services and others. The proposal for a law does not take advantage of an option set out in an audit regulation that allows an audit firm which conducts a statutory audit of entities of public interest, with certain conditions of independence for the same entity of public interest, to provide non-audit services. This point is one of the points that I mentioned earlier, the two public consultations and the opinions of 23 institutions, one of which also encouraged a number of comments on this bill and I believe and I am sure that today, in the context of the debate we will be having, we will say something to this and, of course, that we as the Ministry of Finance or the Government are willing to listen to and, of course, discuss the proposals. As regards the duration of the audit engagement, the applicable law only provides for the replacement of the authorised auditor of the audit report at the latest every seventh year since the start of the audit. The internal rotation where the audit regulation is applied directly will remain for seven years, so that provision remains, however. The main audit partner responsible for carrying out the statutory audit shall interrupt their participation in the statutory audit of the entities from which the subject of the audit is no later than seven years from the date of its appointment, however, the novelty of the audit regulation to introduce and rotate audit firms in such a way that the initial engagement of the audit company carrying out an audit of the entity of public interest may be extended for a maximum period of 10 years. In the light of the fact that the audit regulation allows for the possibility of setting and a shorter period of rotation, this law also used the option prescribed that the total duration of an audit company’s engagement in an entity of public interest should not last for more than seven years, with the so-called For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: According to the regulation, the rotation of the main audit partner is also seven years, from the date of appointment with the so-called so-called. again cooling off a three-year period. So, that period that must pass if he could ever come into that segment again. This is also one of the provisions that I repeat as well as the previous related audit services, prompted comments as some Member States have a slightly longer deadline, some Member States or one of them have somewhat shorter ones. However, our intention was through this proposal to link the Law on Audit with other laws which also prescribe the length of the audit, i.e. the possibility of an audit society to carry out audits in a society. Well, let's just say I'm going to mention the Credit Institutions Act, but, of course, some others. As regards the Audit Committee, the entities of public interest must have an Audit Committee or a body that performs the same duty in a public interest entity, and the conditions of expertise, tasks, conditions for ensuring independence and a minimum number of members of the Audit Committee shall be prescribed with a view to achieving a high quality legal review. The obligation of entities of public interest is that they have an audit committee prescribed by already applicable law. However, it shall be prescribed and extended by additional rights and obligations of the Audit Committee, for example by prescribing the responsibility of the Auditor's Board for the selection of the audit society. As regards the supervision of the draft law, the supervisory procedure, therefore direct and indirect and supervisory measures, are more detailed than the applicable law, and in accordance with the powers to conduct investigations and determine sanctions granted to the audit directive and regulation with a view to detecting, deterring and preventing infringements of the prescribed rules in the field of provision of audit services. The supervision will be carried out by authorised civil servants of the Ministry of Finance who are authorised auditors and who fulfil other draft laws prescribed conditions and which must be independent of supervisory entities, and which must not be of course conflict of interest. To this end, the draft law further elaborated the provisions on independence. Prior to the start of surveillance, supervisors must make a written statement that there is no conflict of interest between them and the audit company which is subject to supervision. All decisions on supervisory measures will be made public by the Ministry of Finance on its website. As regards the Croatian Audit Chamber, the Ministry of Finance is the competent authority for the implementation of this law, but in accordance with the possibility provided for by the Directive, it delegates part of its powers to the Croatian Audit Chamber according to the precise terms and conditions and rules. The ultimate responsibility for the tasks carried out by the Croatian Audit Chamber has the Ministry of Finance. Accordingly, the Chamber shall carry out the following tasks: Implementation and publication in the Croatian language of international audit standards, adoption of national audit standards, implementation and publication of ethical standards, determination of the programme of audits, amount of compensation with prior consent of the Ministry of Finance, organisation and conduct of audits, determination of the amount of compensation, organisation and implementation of specific examinations. The Croatian Audit Chamber is still funded through contributions and membership fees from its members, and is obliged to submit to the Government of the Republic of Croatia an annual report on work with a preliminary opinion from the Ministry of Finance. In view of the reorganisation of the existing system, the transitional and final provisions of the draft law, it is prescribed that the audit permits issued to audit firms or independent auditors on the basis of a valid basis, the existing law is considered to be an authorisation granted in accordance with the draft law. The obligation of the Croatian Audit Office to complete the tight procedures initiated under the applicable Law on Audit, and the obligation of the Committee on Public Audit and the Croatian Audit Chamber to enable and access the Ministry of Finance, provide all information so that the Ministry of Finance as a new competent authority could continue to carry out the tasks prescribed by the draft law. And at the end of the entry into force of this law, today we are within the framework of the first reading, I believe, also after the debate and adoption of the conclusion that we will try to adopt the comments and proposals of course, and then, in the context of the second reading, the final proposal of the law should enter into force on 1 January 2018. Thank you very much, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49178	I thank the minister. We have four replicas. The first replica of the esteemed representative, Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49179	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Minister Maric spoke here about this proposal for the Revision Act. You mentioned, among other things, sanctions, or consequences that would occur in the event of irregularities, so let me remind you that there is not just business ability, there is not only whether someone will get fired or be demoted because of irregularities. There's also a criminal liability. If you talk to a major state auditor, he'll tell you that there have been a lot of cases where the state's audit of irregularities detected, but other institutions haven't done anything further. I'm afraid in many cases our judiciary is simply unable to identify irregularities. If there were now a million kuna bag from the state budget that you brought with you and if someone stole, we'd all be witnesses to it, but they'd say there are no elements of the crime. I get the impression that's how it works. So I suggest that the second part of sanctioning be taken into account, and that when the law is to be drawn up that you participate in these works, because we will happen to have a great detection, but we have no final sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49180	No answer to that? Here's a quick response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49181	Thank you. I don't have any special comments. The subject you've covered well in the replica is not necessarily and exclusively of this law, but we're talking about the State Audit. However, I can only comment briefly on what you said. Of course the Ministry of Finance will be involved in those changes you've been referencing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49182	Second replica, Honorable Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, here we are talking about the Revision Act. The fact that all these companies are audited, auditors are doing their job let's say the best quality. However, the biggest problem and fact is in the direction in which we must go and I am interested in your attitude. Where there is no revision, where institutions are protected, such as Croatian People's. They are protected as a private institution within the Croatian state, stronger than the government. The Croatian National Bank has no audits that citizens need to know about their business. That's what we were trying to do, we didn't make it. What's that for? Are we afraid of someone or is it our duty to Parliament and you from the Government to ask for audit reports from the Croatian National Bank or from any company or concern such as Agrokor. Why wasn't the review of the case in Agrokor when it was mostly funded by the state? And he wasn't even taxed once, tax inspection, let alone some serious audit, and we know how much subsidy I made to that Agrokor concert from the Croatian state, he got to what the state led him to. Which is why this law, this law, which may and may not be related to what I'm saying, is because we are passing laws, and the key institutions, which have helped in this case Agrokor, up to 10 billion kuna, which the governor himself has admitted, without the bonds, Agrokor 10 billion benefits, that no one has any responsibility or revision has the right to watch it, or even the business of the CNB. Not meddling in monetary policy, but doing business, how many fish you knock down, how many wallpapers they receive, what they pay. Nothing, so I'm interested in your position as Minister of Finance and Proposer of this Law, what do you think makes any sense to this law if some institutions don't have a revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49184	Here you go, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49185	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here at the end, right now, I think at the beginning of my answer, the crane of your sentence, I certainly think that this law makes absolutely sense, too. Just in the presentation, I pointed out all of his importance and his newspaper. The law which is well in line with the Council's Directive and regulation and, on the other hand, takes into account certain specificities of the Republic of Croatia which we have, of course, implemented and taken into account when proposing this law. As for the details you mentioned around the CNB, so I have to do it again, not again, but again, there are some other laws that talk about it and need to talk about it. We also discussed this subject while we were, of course, together as a coalition partner and discussed it, and then we exchanged certain arguments and I don't think there's any need to mention them again. We were talking about, of course, that for such a thing, certain regulations are certain that allow certain elements of course, revision and supervision of the business of the CNB, as long as they do not enter into independence of monetary policy itself, i.e. the CNB itself. As far as this other part is concerned, I wouldn't really comment on anything, regardless of the particular cases you mention, both concrete companies and companies. We have already talked about this countless times in the Croatian Parliament. So here, I would stick to this if I thought this was a really good bill that would certainly improve the system and the existing market for audit and audit services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49186	Third replica, respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49187	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Actually, one little clarification. State audits and commercial audits, for example, local self-government. Let me explain. So the State Audit, of course, has an obligation, to audit the local self-government. State audits do their job and now I don't know. The head of local self-government, calls for a commercial audit, what's going on at the moment? What if, say, there's a little bit of a discrepancy between these reviews. Is it even common to do such a thing, that local self-government calls for a commercial audit and what is the role of this law now in fact, will commercial auditors also be able to audit in local self-governments and public bodies in such a way? If you've thought of me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49188	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49189	Thank you very much. I understand you, I mean, of course, for all the authorities of the state administration, and local self-government, the unit of local, regional, regional self-government, it's the state's audit that's in charge. But you speak for yourself, therefore, there is a possibility when a leader, for one reason or another, can, of course, call for a particular segment and commercial revision. It wasn't some sort of exception until now, there were examples like that. Now, the case of what you're saying, if there's a discrepancy in the findings somewhere, I think, of course, it should be determined in which segments, in which elements, but still, it's the State Review that has the key and final word on the subject of the audit itself. It is in fact in accordance with the law and with its defined role and mission, these final findings.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49190	And the last replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49191	Here's Mr. Minister, in this bill, there are, of course, good things. Something is harmonized because of the need to comply with the EU Directive, etc. But I would ask you another question. The fact is that financial reports have been audited by various auditors from Croatia, so the question is, will you, these financial reports have been manipulated and they are not correct. Now that shows, will you take away those audit companies' license? That's the first question. And secondly, since from now on the Ministry of Finance only grants licenses, do you consider yourself, as you feel in that place, when you add those licences, based on everything that happened during the situation in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49192	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49193	Thank you very much. I'll just answer briefly, so here we're talking about a new law, which should come into force, these provisions of 1.1.2018, so everything I talked about earlier, of course, refers to forwards. I also mentioned the transitional, final provisions prescribed by this law, which should be done in the transitional period. Surely all the circumstances of the past and such things, not even referring to the specific example you mention, because of this, I cannot comment on, or, some others will say on the subject, that they are being taken into account. However, under the rules and provisions of this law which have been made, the same authorisations will be granted and granted, and shall also be abolished, or withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49194	Thank you. We move to the discussion of SDP's Club of Representatives and distinguished counterpart Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, I would like to brief on this law today to commend the minister, I think it's a good law, that the law that may not have been in this part of the minister himself has been made a major step, which is that so far the auditory societies have been under the supervision of the Auditory Chamber. And there must have been a lot of resistance for this surveillance to go to the Ministry of Finance now, and I think it's a good step, and that's why we're in that part and we're commending it because it probably wasn't easy to transfer it from the audit companies to the Ministry of Finance, is there a question of people sitting on those audit boards in audit companies watching themselves. And the question arises whether it was in this context a particular conflict of interest between the Croatian Audit Chamber and these audit companies. And in this context, I think it is the essence of this law, which is that it is predicted that the competent authority for the supervision of audit firms and authorised auditors is to be transferred to the Ministry of Finance, and that this current Committee on Public Control is to be audited that it will stop working, and the Auditory Chamber will no longer have a supervisory role in this context, and I think that this is the essence of this law, and that in this context we all should praise it and we think that it is a certain step. What I will have here are several questions, and it may be more technicalally implemented as we know that here I will mean that in Article 75 all functions will be carried out by the Ministry of Finance as a competent body for the regulation and supervision of authorised auditors, independent auditors, audit firms must carry out supervision and other procedures over authorised auditors and audit companies and other supervisory entities established by law and regulation, express supervisory measures, take other actions aimed at removing established illegalities, irregularities, then issue and suspend work authorisations, authorised auditors and audit companies and other approvals the consent of the registration for which it is authorised under this law. As we have heard here, this register will be conducted, then set up a certain training program, means a lot of everything that I don't read right now, a lot of work so I'm quite interested in technically whether the Ministry of Finance will have the capacity to do all this because I hope and believe it will, but we know that there's a lot when you want to hire new people at the Ministry or any form of public administration we know that the contests last a year, two, complaints, etc. It's a very long process to get quality personnel. If we know that we need people who are going to work, employees who are going to do these jobs we need to adequately and pay them if they can't perform audit jobs where certain audit houses have bonuses, have very high incomes and now, on the other hand, are supervised by certain civil servants who don't know if they have a certain average salary of 4 to 5 thousand kuna, who you will attract to the Ministry of Finance with such qualifications to oversee such competent audit houses. I think that here we have to support that in this context and allow a regulation... that you can hire such people, if you are legally and even directives tell you that it would be good for the Ministry of Finance to control it, then they will get stuck in the implementation process and then they will work for two years, so while these people get hired and the question arises... what the minister was saying is a certain question if someone gets a good job done then they go to that auditory house and works for three times the salary. And then there's always the problem of the staff that's going to be watching that part, so I hope that not only in this context will it stay this way but we'll make other steps to support these people's employment and pay them adequately. This will take effect on 1 January 2018, I don't know if we will in such a short time, and we know that it is only a few months to have enough staff in the ministry to be able to carry out this supervision alone. What makes me here a little bit more, and that might be a question today to discuss the responsibility of those auditors themselves. In this respect, Article 61 states the level of liability insurance for damages that an audit firm could cause by carrying out audit services, at least the amount of cover for a harmful event, is 300 thousand kuna, and for the damages that an audit company could cause by carrying out a statutory audit of entities of public interest, the minimum amount of the coverage under the harmful contract is three million kuna. Now here we're talking about entities that are subject to review, so it's not even spoken in this law, but it's the Accounting Act that are the bonds of the audit, and it's medium-sized entrepreneurs and public-interest entities. And entities of public interest under this law are also credit institutions to you, then companies that have included securities on a regulated capital market, or not only in Croatia, but anywhere outside, and companies that the Government has determined are of particular interest. Now the question now arises unrelated to this case which we now have recently and responsibilities of the role of auditors, we hear that this is a number of auditory houses have audited and confirmed the financial reports of Agrokor that have been auctioned on the world stock exchanges, they have been auctioned. They weren't just there being sold on Dolco, so they probably had to go through very strict standards and when they were analysed by Moodys and rating agencies, etc. It is not such a simple story now means that it passes a whole of such a vertical all these mostly audit houses and today it is actually a question of certain responsibility of auditors who have combed who were actually business to revise that these financial reports show the fair and true situation of the financial position of that trading entity. And if certain irregularities occur, or some kind of fraud in those financial reports, and you know maybe the case of the biggest financial fraud, it was Enron in 2001 that rocked the American market when over 100 billion traffic was in that Enron, 100 billion dollars, meaning a very large number of employees where even one auditory Arthur Andersen was created, then it was before that Big Five, after that there was a Big Four, means a large 4 audit houses that are also today that I don't advertise, those who know, are dealing with the auditory house, so it's even absolutely gone from the market, because they probably had to and some of their responsibilities because they confirmed all these reports and those who bought those reports were bought on the basis of who audited those companies, they simply disappeared. And now we're asking a question here, and based on today's case and I'm talking about whether this amount is 300,000 kunas or in this other case, 3 million kunas, which and what it can cover, that is, that we wouldn't go to some extremes now to see about such things, whether there's even a way of organising in such smaller societies as Croatia, as regulated, we know that this can't go to a large million amounts, but we can see that later there can be huge millions of damages. Based on the revised financial reports which today certain investors suspect. So in this context, we need to see what we can do, or what our legal options are at all, how this works on a single European market, how it especially works for smaller economies such as the Croatian economy. It's probably not the same as German or as the American, so they're probably much bigger there, but it should be determined whether and in what way it will be mechanisms to be in the future if they are charged, ultimately they are confirmed, what will happen with such audit companies and give and they will be able to cover certain events if they are established to be in their audits, because watch out, no one has a better insight, no one, it's their job from the auditors. No one, combing from a travel order, combs from financial reports, combs from whether taxes are paid, combs from whether the financial situation is fair and true. So they're the ones who actually have the basic job that we've given to the Revision Act, to determine the truthfulness and fair financial reports. Not the minister, not the government of the Republic of Croatia, but the auditors whose duty it is to carry out, and that's why they deal with it. That's why they don't deal with politics, that's why they don't go to elections, because they don't give programmes, because every one of their tasks and combing every account and checking whether it's true and fair, and so when we can talk about public companies, when ministers who are members of the assembly, ministers who are members of the Supervisory Boards, etc., can they get, when they get from the audit report to get that it's fair, true and precise, and inside you can be careful, what is also defined in this law, there must be audit committees. There must be audit committees. It is no joke that there must be audit committees of the Audit Law which must also be in each, even in this public company, where they must participate in the selection of audits, where they must also comb what is happening. Their opinions under the Revision Act are also here in this work, which is why I said that I commend, their role is being further strengthened. So I think that this is certainly a good step forward for this law, to see if and in any way to strengthen the ministry's ability to team up and certainly see if we're going to raise this standard, raise the cash amount, see if there might be some kind of, I don't know, possibility that they can be provided with insurance companies for that, because you have to create one particular mass to secure that part, and on the other hand they wouldn't risk their business again because we see that there are about 513 active companies, and there are 223 audit companies. So there will certainly be a lot of work, and this is just one of the first steps, and then later on probably implementation, because now the Ministry of Finance will be more involved in this implementation itself, they will see if there will be some problems in the implementation itself and perhaps later and then in that context and further. So so far we have no objections about this text as it looks, but these questions that I've opened up here certainly need to be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49196	Thank you. We have five replicas, the first replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49197	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Lalovac, you have commended the proposal of this law for a simple reason, you are saying that these 513 active auditors and 223 audit companies are actually overseeing the Croatian Audit Chamber, now it will be done by the Ministry of Finance. And then you talked about an article in the 61st draft of this law, related to the level of penalties for audit companies. as far as I followed well, if I followed well the Minister of Finance he said in his statement that so far under the current law couldn't be punished auditors but audit companies, and that the bill now punishes the auditors, and you're actually saying now whether that level of punishment is appropriate or not. What can you actually talk about? With this proposal, in fact, the law itself, the audit that is being carried out, the commercial audit is, in fact, the key to carrying out the auditor himself that they actually play a larger role but as far as the minister said, and he said that these auditors are actually required 120 hours of education within three years as I understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49198	There's no response to the replica, so let's go to the other one. Dear Representative Gordan Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49199	Thank you very much, Mr. Lalovac. In your debate, you pointed out a lot of important things. One of these is that the need for both audits and auditors to be more transparent and less dependent on audit entities, i.e. we see that the law's intensities are that audit companies are changing, and then we probably wouldn't have a situation like we have in Croatia, that after a long number of years of some company, the biggest companies in Croatia question audit reports. And maybe it just took us to compare the audit companies that did audits in the past, for example, Agrokor and see how many of these companies were obtained per employee, so let's see if there's something wrong with that. I'm afraid I haven't dealt with that area, but now that I see it, it's illogical stuff. Someone could see that, to see that an audit company suddenly changed, what changed its audit company to jump income per employee five times compared to before, to get by employed one, etc. And now we're wondering why some things were more accurate. On the other hand, there is absolutely a need for greater transparency, to change societies. They must not be dragged into the same societies for 10 years by the largest companies, as some non-healthy relationships are inevitably established. And unfortunately, on such examples, we can see that this could have been done before. What I also think is the reason, that the HDZ avoids the debate on Agrokor and the Agrokor Commission is precisely that we don't see these links and that people don't hear the information. On the other hand, if the HDZ continues to do so, it will be clear that they want to store things under the carpet and that they do not want the citizens to hear what was actually going on in Agrokor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49200	Thank you. There's no response to the replica, so let's go to third. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49201	Dear fellow Lalovac, you said that they were basically the most responsible for the auditors' reports, that they had the best insight in the matter. But I have the impression somehow that it frees the responsibilities of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia that they had to react. Here is a colleague, Maras, who set some examples. So we need to ask that question and it must not happen to us, and therefore it is good that the SDP has decided to insist on the Agrokor Investigation Commission, regardless of the disfavor of some of your representatives, I don't know why it is, whether there is any connection to this concert and why they didn't want to use that tool that you have in your hands to fight for the investigative commission supported by all the MPs in this House. It can't be just an auditor's responsibility, there's a responsibility for a man who's a finance minister, who's been high-ranking in that company and who had to know what's going on there. There is a responsibility for all the institutions that have failed and we here through the investigating committee will not establish criminal responsibility. Let the institutions deal with it, but we will see what institutions have done all the failures. And I'm glad he ended up in the SDP, so this current that I think is being led by fellow Maras because they called him the leader of that gang that's tearing down the constitutional order. I am glad that this initiative has passed, and I hope that HDZ will finally understand that we need this investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49202	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dearest colleague of the bush, so I agree with most of your replicas only perhaps with one note. So here, when we talk about basic financial reports, I'm talking about the balance sheet, the balance sheet that shows us what the financial situation is every year, at the end of the year of 31.12. every year, the cash situation, the balance sheet. Is this property real? It's not real? Is it well amortized? He's telling us the situation, the profit and the loss account, he's telling us the cash flow report. Watch out when you have three basic financial reports, basic, so there's nothing, that's the basis of everything. If it is suspected, be careful those reports come to the Ministry of Finance, these reports come to the Croatian National Bank, these reports come to the HANFA, these reports come everywhere. There are reports everywhere that have been revised, which they have put their signatures, which many auditors have been passing there, which are international and financial institutions of Moodys. Moodys is surprised today. Well, look, Moodys has such strict rules. We at the Ministry of Finance know very much when we're going through, how their rules go when the state needs to get a rating. Those are terrible rules. And now you're coming, you're getting all these reports through, so you're getting those reports, so the whole system, and you're saying that, I believe that. Now look, if such a form of fraud it couldn't know only one person in Agrokor if it was, I can't get into it if it was and so, then you can ask what these others can know based on fair and true reports, based on which international investors in London buy that part. Watch out for the German bank, Mrs. Merkel has invested in Agrokora bonds. The German bank has invested, their Development Bank. Mrs. Merkel has invested in the bonds of Agrokor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49204	Thank you. Replica number 4. Dear colleague Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49205	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Lalovac, you said in your statement that this is a good law and that we need this law and we from the Croatian Peasant Party agree that this area should be better regulated by this law. But the question is that you yourself were in a dilemma about whether it was law, and any law should be enforceable if, as you say, the Ministry of Finance as a control body doesn't have enough personnel, there's not enough money to pay people to work on the control of audit companies. So let's say openly how many people it takes... The Ministry of Finance hires them and adequately rewards them that there are enough mechanisms to manage these processes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the fact that the system had failed precisely on the above example of Agrokor because all these societies had, in fact, the audit report, had financial reports and only international institutions had warned that some of these financial or all of them had been falsified. And what is the problem then is to strengthen the financial supervision and business of audit companies and the business of the company that are owned by the Republic of Croatia to protect taxpayers' tax money that they pay to allow the system to function. And why, then, are we afraid of reviewing and investigating the Agrokor Commission, and we, HSS, advocate to establish an investigative commission and finally learn the truth, whether these companies are controlled within the Agrokor system, how many financial inspections there have been, have not received answers to how many bonds have been issued without cover, and with no maturity, and here, we expect that the economy further develops and that the family farms have one stable system for the placement of their goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49206	Replication response, colleague of Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49207	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP, so what I've been saying here at the beginning, we actually need to support that the capacities of the Ministry of Finance are provided by people who will be able to revise, i.e., oversee the audit houses that are specialized, what I said, only for this form of work, who are very well paid only for that form of work, and we know if 10 or 20 people are hired by the ministry tomorrow and if you give them some income you'll see on the other hand, again, here they are re-employing so-called. some kind of earring. So we need to know here, if we're going into this law, if we're going in that direction to support all of this law, I hope that everyone in that section and support it, then we can't look for you tomorrow when the Ministry of Finance hires these people and gives them good pay, we need to pay them well. And if, watch out, what responsibility they have on them, then they will reopen certain employment issues, personnel teams, etc. So, if we're in this principle, we'll be principled in that, and we'll support the whole system even when we're employed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49208	Thank you. And the last replica, the Honorable Representative Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49209	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovac, if we're talking about the audit and the auditors, this law, that's what determines. Tell me, what kind of law that allows, I repeat that I asked Minister Marić, I did not get an answer, for what the Bridge advocated, we are all witnesses, that the CNB has no business audit and that they act as an empire separately, spending money however they want, auditing past business. We weren't talking about monetary, any political influence, we were talking about business audits. And it's the CNB, the sole culprit, I personally filed a criminal report, because he's head of a stability monitoring council, you're the minister, so you know that and you were in that body. Agrokor used 10 billion kunas, placed on the market bonds without cover, which was a direct blow to stability, the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia. What's the point... The audit, the auditors, when a concert, favored by the state, destroyed our agriculture through all subsidies, agricultural subsidies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we know from the EU funds, while there was a gentleman, when you were in government, who knows where those EU funds for agriculture went 2 billion kuna. So, absolutely, does it make sense when some institutions, concerts are protected from any revisions or any tax inspections? Because the fact is that tax inspection in Agrokor, mostly deep, has never entered, and huge money has been used right in Agrokor and through subsidies, incentives and who knows through everything. Therefore, what is the point of anything, when we have protected institutions, which do whatever they want, and are the main culprits and the biggest economic crisis, is this crisis around the Agrokora concert, and the CNB that has allowed, in this way, to bring financial instability to the whole of the Republic of Croatia and monetary policy is catastrophic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49210	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Replication response, colleague of Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49211	Thank you very much, sir. Dear colleague Bulj, you know that in the first reading, when it was the first reading, it seems to me that I am on behalf of the SDP Club and I said publicly that I support your proposal to oversee the CNB, then I was also having talks with your colleague Bozo Petrov, where I said that this was a good direction, regardless of what some said, that it was contrary to some EU directives, rules, etc., they introduced, they worked, I don't know what they were up to, something they didn't call on. Since it wasn't here at the time that the monetary system was being monitored, but the supervision of the purely of their business and I say I don't see any, if the State Audition could have audited the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament, I ask the question, why someone could be ex-traditionally bound, and the Croatian Parliament gave him permission to work. So in this context, you'll have all my support still, because I think it was in that context, so unfortunately, when that law was moving with some other thing, that it was some kind of impact on the monetary system, it was lobbying in both Frankfurt and others. That's how it works. So no one wants anyone in that context, he didn't want to punish or... but just the same, as yesterday was the gentleman from the State Audit Office, you see how much he analyzed yesterday, all public companies, the local self-government unit, etc., etc. Just to come, to determine if it's all according to the rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what she was supposed to lift so much into that kind of panic context. If that happens any further, you'll have my personal support, and as the club will say, I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49212	Thank you, Mr. Lalovec. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, colleague of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister with his associates. We've been in front of the Revision Act, actually he's been meeting with him for over a year. We are currently in force of the 2005 law, which was changed in 2008 and harmonised in 2012 in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act. We currently have 223 companies in Croatia, about 500 active auditors with an annual income of slightly more than 500 million kuna. It is they who are the most involved in public consultation. We also heard from the minister that there were two public consultations with the interested public precisely with this professional part of the interested public. There were really a lot of objections and most of them were adopted and incorporated into this new Revision Act proposal. However, there are some objections which are not respected, which I think may still need to discuss, which is the level and minimum penalty for authorised auditors if certain irregularities occur. Is it just this height or some way of extra insurance because we see that our market is in Croatia and it is not so large or these authorised auditors in the Republic of Croatia have a relatively narrow market, although under the law they can, of course, audit in other EU Member States, as well as external audit companies can do with us audits. The current law played a major role in the Croatian Audit Chamber and we had more public oversight of the audit entrusted to the Committee on Public Control, which is exactly what it called itself, which is now that the proposal of this law abolishes or changes in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Audit Chamber. The bill puts this into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. Personally, I think it should be the most professional, most competent, but the question is whether it's teamed up enough. I believe that it is also enough resources, but it will be the minister himself to assess and see if it is possible to perform everything because these are very important and significant functions because he now assumes that it is a supervisory body that will issue approvals, carry out education, ensure that standards, quality assurance, supervision, investigative actions and measures and sanctions are provided. It is good that we have greater transparency and that we are really running more transparency, and I think we have to because we have to start believing in audit reports. The audit reports must indeed be made quality, true and fair, and auditors are the ones who really have to and can do the best. All they have ahead of them, it's a balance sheet of profit and loss, cash flows he has all that and has the ability to see into every piece of paper, otherwise it's about professional people who must and certainly know at first sight where there might be something to hide. And it's good that we cut the deadline to seven years, or we're suggesting they have to rotate that they have a certain responsibility, so ten years will pass, so it won't be so next year will be better. No, auditors must be the ones to be trusted and to whom investors will trust when they take that report audited to know that what it says is that. And we've heard a lot of additional elements and praise for this law, I believe that primarily the professional public, and we all agree that this is the kind of whole law we needed, but maybe it's true that we're still having a little bit of discussion about what it is and what bothers the most, and that's that height of punishment. Here is the Club of HNS Representatives to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49214	Thank you, Mrs. Macar, on behalf of the HNS Representatives Club. We have a replica on her exhibit. Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49215	Thank you very much. Mrs. Makar, you have in your debate advocated what is commendable and for transparency greater when compiling audit reports. And you see yourself in practice that in the past period there have been certain audits that are doubtful, which are now confirmed and in the case of Agrokor that they weren't exactly what they were supposed to be. And I was wondering whether since the Club of HNS's advocates for this transparency, are you in favour of seeing the framework for who it was and what was politically problematic in the past period that the audit reports of Agrokor were unqualityly drawn up and that we see it in a political context on the investigative committee. I understand why HDZ is opposed to the Agrokor investigation committee, because they want to hide all the information from the public, they want it to go away from the public's eyes and now not transparently some of the things about Agrokor especially in the context of the state taking all the risk, and that people who now decide there without personal risk on behalf of the state, and later the lawsuits that will come will probably not be too much interested and will not be too much concerned. But you and all of us here in the Croatian Parliament, as far as I hear, all clubs except HDZ are for that, should be concerned that our citizens get a hearing and information. Not research, not DORH's work, but a political framework, a context, to see that such things are no longer happening in Croatia, so I'm curious whether this club of representatives of the HNS will be left in principle and demand transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49216	Thank you very much, Agent Maras. The answer to the replica of MP Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49217	Dear colleague Maras, I didn't mention an investigative commission anywhere in my debate. In my debate, I referred to the fact that the auditors right now need to work transparently, that all institutions should work transparently, I believe that's exactly what our institutions are doing. And all that is stated in this law, perhaps to a lesser extent, has been so far. And I am sure that I am not the one who, in the investigation committee or anywhere else, could do better than our institutions do, and that is why I believe in the transparency and reports of our institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49218	Thank you very much. The replica is gone. Next on behalf of HDZ Club representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So before I move on to these technical changes that are actually very important because the minister has set up both the Ministry and the Government a clear concept in which he wants to give the development of audit activity, so to speak, in Croatia. I would refer to one table that immediately on the first page of this material that we have received, I think we should start our analytical approach when we talk about this law. So this says that we of 971 authorized auditors, 513 active, of which we have 223 audit companies. Given that Article 5 of the Law stipulates that an audit firm must have at least one authorised auditor, then if we went so strictly, on average, it turns out that somewhere 2, 2 and a half auditors had authorised companies, let's all be honest with ourselves, to others, who we know little about finances. Two people in one company that has even more traffic cannot do much, and this points us to something else, that the revision of large companies in Croatia can only be carried out by a few audit companies in the Republic of Croatia and that unfortunately, as it was in 2005 when the audit law was passed, our largest companies were audited, what counterpart Lalovac was saying, eminent audit houses from the world that have a high reputation and quoted on the stock exchanges and I don't think it's good for us to get balled in this way, why? Because no matter what we are here as parliamentary representatives we can speak but we also have a responsibility for the spoken word because these same audit houses are with some of their reports based on rating agencies when they come to Croatia and when I start talking to everyone and then you have a very often chance when they talk to opposition politicians, then they're hitting on how this doesn't work in the country and then they're just fine, they determine that this and that kind of rating, and then you're based on that rating, all of us, the citizens who got into any kind of responsibility, that the biggest corporations are paying higher interest rates simply they're antagonizing our way, is we don't have money, we know where we can be in debt. And there he would stop with a general story, and he would go for an analysis of this bill, but only in that section and that segment that I think on behalf of the club that it's important to assess which direction changes are going and what I think is most important, most importantly, and that's the minister's determination to monitor and register out of the audit chamber, they're probably... information, suggested that this was all happening in the Ministry of Finance, could be suggested by someone also by HANFA or something else, but it's an important concept. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the concept is that this complete business takes place outside of the Chamber of Commerce, it's not logical that someone practically condemns and judges themselves, which is the more we are, and when we look at the number of auditors and the number of auditors, we practically have a few strong audit houses, these all other lifemakers. By looking at the total turnover of these audit companies, you will see that their activities have far more than some other things to do than carry out audit reports. So this is defined in Article 68 and further articles that go on, but then we need to be clear here if we all support this Law on Audit, then we also have to give clear support to the Minister when planning the budget for 2018 and 2019, to ensure adequate resources and adequate status of all people who will do this job because this job cannot be done by people who are not highly educated, who I mean not by school preparation, but by education and by experience, because if you want to control someone then you must be at the least the level of the one you control. And unfortunately today, many who run financial documents in a company are far more educated than the people in the tax administration because simply the means and education of the people in the tax administration is the level at which it is. So, that's one thing we have to take care of, and we can't just talk about the budget to attack reduce this, reduce that, and then we expect people to do one perfect job, you know, if you have such people, then tomorrow any international auditory house will come to you from Croatia, and you'll take a man like that, a man knows the terrain, knows the opportunities, knows everything, and he can do some great jobs and run things in Croatia, you've got a trained man, and you haven't invested anything in it. And unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance has the biggest problem with respect for all the other ministries, that the highest-quality staff and who are also educated, who learn to work at the Ministry of Finance leave. So, if we want this law to function in a way that is why I have started to amend this Article 68th, then we have to provide the basis for that. Because if we don't provide the basis for it, the fact that we passed such a law ultimately means nothing to us. They are also prescribed, that is, Article 11, stricter conditions of access to the audit exam are prescribed and as you can see so far it has been 3 years, and now it is 5 years of work experience and 3 years of it with the mentorship of an authorised auditor. So it's simply to become an authorised auditor, to get permission to work, you have to have a certain experience. As I said registers of all those listed by the minister that I do not repeat them will be introduced into the Ministry of Finance. However, what is very important is what I have been able to read, read, and in public debates, and in some informal discussions, which are stricter conditions for independence. Therefore, this law lays down provisions regarding independence, professionality, ethics, the prohibition of employment by an authorised auditor with the audited entity and the preparation of audit services and the assessment of the threats of independence, the internal organisation of audit firms and the organisation of audit institutions and other institutions. So what's also very important, and that's an audit secret. It was not specifically prescribed by the applicable law. However, it has been linked to the Data Protection Act until then. However, as my colleagues who have spoken to me have said that virtually auditors who are auditing a public-interest entity have a practical insight into all the documentation and they must have this code of audit secrets, that very important data does not reveal to any other entity who can unfortunately use tomorrow against this. Also Article 44 of non-audit services. Therefore, the applicable law and Article 11 have provided non-audit services, financial, accounting services, tax and other business advice, assessment of the value of enterprises, assets and liabilities, and judicial skills excludes the possibility of carrying out audit services in the same legal person for the same business year. The ban on the provision of audit services applies to all related companies of the audited entity as well as to an audit firm, or to an independent auditor, unless the audit firm can demonstrate that it has taken all necessary measures to ensure independence. This law also provides that an audit firm carrying out a statutory audit of public-interest entities and all members of the network to which the audit firm belongs may not provide any direct or indirect audited entity, or its parent company or companies under its control in a Member State of any non-audit service. And I think this provision of article 44 might be the most important. And if we stick to it strictly, if we strictly apply it, it makes it impossible that whoever audits the company was simultaneously involved in both accounting processes and the composing of reports and balances, but simply it comes here as someone who does not know what was going on based on the documentation writing his report. And what's important, and it's not mentioned here in the audit reports, it's good and it's important for the audit reports, and it should be, that they also give their independent opinion on certain business decisions. Because sometimes business decisions behind them have a very high impact, the implications have both positive and negative on financial results. And that is why someone who observes on the side is very important to emphasize, and we can also mention some things that are not highlighted in some processes that are very important in Croatia. But I think it's even one of the most important things, especially in big corporations. What, which we all agree with, is regulated by Article 64 onward, which is the duration of the audit engagement. It's not good for someone to be unlimited somewhere, because it just becomes an integral part of that part, and the question is how realistically they can evaluate and evaluate certain processes and events and how much they can even see. And that's why it's good that one audit entity can't be more than 7 years in one society. I think it's after all that and my colleague Lalovec and the others supported it in their debate. And what's very important, and that's what I said at the beginning when I was talking about the context of these people who are going to be in the Ministry of Finance doing this department, and that's the obligation of professional training. So in three years, auditors should have at least 120 hours cumulatively when the sum of professional training is summed up. Because when you look at just how many financial laws we have changed in one session's term, we have given because of the government's assessment and assessment that certain things should be changed whether because of the change and application of the EU directive. Now take everyone who audits these laws must be educated, and so must those who revise it, so that they can do it in a quality way must have education. Some will do so in order to be competitive and to be able to do better, and some simply will not. And what is very important, Article 58 is a clear and detailed content of the financial report. Article 65, Article 6 and Article 7 detail the conditions of independence of the audit committee, the expertise of the structures. And in the end, I want to say something, and I think it's very important. A colleague of Lalovac touched that, and that is the responsibility for the audit report. So, we're legally prescribing who has to give an unauthorized auditor to revise his business, we've prescribed. So we are in a certain way and prescribed that this company also has a future cost. And revising a big company isn't a job that works for a couple hundred thousand kunas, it's a few million kunas. And the logical thing, if this report for those listed companies, and some of our companies are listed in the London Stock Exchange, not only on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, these reports go to the stock market, is the logical responsibility of whoever put that report together. Because these are people who definitely, the only ones who can have all the documents in their hands. Neither the Supervisory Board nor the congregation can do so. And therefore, I think that responsibility is very important. And with all that responsibility and all that expertise, some things are being stolen. We here in this High House very often like to lean on each other with mud, because at that point it may be politically interesting. However, colleagues and colleagues, I'll just tell you in this High House there have been several reports of HANFA. And in those reports, HANFA mentioned one anomaly, and this is a sharp leap in exchange rate trading in the Republic of Croatia. I saw neither in the government's opinion nor in the parliamentary debate, that someone had asked a question and responded. So, they are now whether the HANF eventually took all the actions that she needed, and then we can discuss it, we'll discuss it when the HANFA report comes. But, interestingly enough, we're all pretending like we didn't see it today. And my colleague Maric, I don't think you're going to have any trouble with people for this department, because this investigative commission, when it's done, it's going to be so professional, it's going to be able to work automatically at the Ministry of Finance. And since we're trying to make such high wages, it'll be far more attractive to them than to work and be a parliamentary representative. Thank you very much, the HDZ Club will support the First Reading Review Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49220	Thank you, Mr. Shuker. We've got five replicas on his display. The first replica is from Mr. Maras. Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49221	Thank you very much, Mr. Shucker. In your part studio exposure, and partly a bit of a joke, but unfortunately with citizens, it's not a joke, especially when it comes to 50 billion debt, you can joke as much as you want, but whatever auditor does reports on Agrokor, a fine of 800,000 kuna or the one that the law provides, is not enough for the damage he has done by making a possible non-distribution report in a quality, transparent, objective, independent manner. So here you can joke with the commission or you can't joke, but the fact that in our constitution of the investigative commission there is, that the public has the right to know and these jokes of yours, our citizens will not be satisfied. This can only show the satisfaction of the HDZ and not at all take no account of the interests of citizens and the public. This has never happened in the Croatian Parliament and do not underestimate your fellow MPs and do not underestimate the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. One more thing, it's clear to me, but I'm sure it'll be clear to the citizens why you're avoiding a debate in Agrokor, you know it best, one of those you know best. Another thing that worries me, where you initially said, that someone who speaks critically about the government, affects the price of capital, and thus suggested to us from the opposition that we should not criticise the authorities, because that's why citizens pay bigger interest. I think exactly the opposite. I think that your government's work collects interest from Croatian citizens, as it was accumulated in 2008 and 2009, when the price of capital was highest in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49222	Thank you, fellow Marasu. Replication response, fellow Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49223	Comrade Maras, unlike you, I always argue with facts in my life. It's very interesting that you haven't reached one very important segment, one very important segment, and that's the HANFA report. So you didn't touch that one. So, I wasn't joking at all, I said it very seriously, in the context of expertise, knowledge and debate on certain things. So, you know well that the HDZ Club has told you to wait for the temporary administration and for the sake of the Croatian citizens to make a report, that independent auditors finish their report, that afterwards, the parent parliamentary committees, which are primarily the Parliamentary Committee on Economy and Finance, at a session where all parliamentary representatives can participate, because such is our Rules of Procedure, let us discuss these reports and then, after these reports, agree on the fate of the Research Commission. So that was an offer, in seven months on the table for you and the HDZ Club, God, the SDP Club. It's the HDZ Club. So, right from word to word what I told you. And I don't see what's gonna get lost in a job that's gonna take a few months, wait two or three months, after all, that report independently... It'll be over now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Same as the interim report, these administrations. So I don't see what's going on here. The Parliamentary Committee on Finance and Economy will discuss this and then we will decide whether to go in which direction. It was an offer from the HDZ Club before the vote on the investigative commission. ... So that's it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have a little too much respect for those 50,000 in which they work under Agrokor and employed in Agrokor to joke at their expense. But I repeat, you haven't responded to anything and don't do it all the time and interpret it. I repeat, I always want to discuss here with arguments, not without arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49224	Thank you very much, Mr. Shucker. Representative Maras has come forward for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49225	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker injured Article 238, and you're partly because you didn't warn him, so he insulted a fellow MP, telling me that he's discussing on the basis of facts, which suggests that I'm not discussing on the basis of facts, which I think you should have done, Mr Vice President. And I'm going to tell Mr. Shuker that I'm discussing on the basis of facts and that what he said will take two, three months. Well, since the 7th month has passed, you still do not want and hide information about Agrokor from the Croatian public, you do not want a debate in the Croatian Parliament as defined by the Constitution. The investigative committees are enlisted in the Constitution, Mr. Schucker. Well, it's not the HDZ above the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49226	Okay, this is Parliament, everyone has the right in their own particular way of exposure or non-exposure, so the Rules of Procedure is not injured. You're looking now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49227	... my colleague Maras is false. So he did not refer to the fact, and the fact is that at the end of the 9th or early 10th month, the Croatian Parliament was able to discuss what independent auditors and administrations found in Agrokor, far before and far earlier than the investigation committee would do. So HDZ is in the interest of clearing it up and discussing it. But why didn't you react when you had the HANFA report, why didn't you tell us how to jump to 14 billion kunas in Croatia once? Well, for Croatia, that's a hell of a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49228	So this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure either, this was one dialogue between Mr. Shucker and Mr. Maras. Now we'll break it off and move on to the next line, and this is the distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Shuker, you said here you have detailedd a fact that I agree with, and that often not often but in Croatia, we do not have so many good auditors and that the financial activities of developed companies are much better both in education and in experience than auditors. I agree with that, you've analyzed it very closely. I wonder if it means that the Republic of Croatia, which allowed the growth of a giant like Agrokor, has therefore worked on its development, and, in parallel with its development, has not encouraged, educated, created conditions or, at the very least, created auditors who are able to carry out an audit in one of these giants. Since you're much more than me in politics, so you'll probably know that answer, is this fact that you said we don't have good enough auditors because you said that at least we should be equal to each other both in education and in experience so that auditors can perform an audit in a giant like Agrokor, is the fact that you said that we haven't had enough good revisions of the political plan back 25 years for Agrokor to develop and do what he's doing to us today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49230	The answer to Mr. Shucker's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49231	My colleague Lesandric, you have, unfortunately, misrepresented what I have said. So you need to know when you quote on the stock exchange, when you ask for the responsibility of the auditor's signatures to have a certain weight, which is why every major Croatian company asks them to have a revised report signed by someone who is eminent. I didn't say, God forbid, because it doesn't occur to me to insult colleagues who work in audit companies that Croatia doesn't have audit houses. No, that's not true, that's not what I said. Croatia has very valuable and professional auditors, but these are not audit houses that are so powerful and so large that they can oppose some... So let me get this straight, that's it. The second thing is, we agreed that if you want someone to work, it controls someone that they have to have a continuous education, and for that education, you also need to provide financial resources and I think we agree on that. And I also hope that you agree that we, on the Committee on Finance and for the Economy, should have received information from that independent auditor and the administration about the situation in Agrokor and then on the basis of the fact that we decide whether we will use our business law and constitutional right to go into the establishment of an investigative commission or we will let the institutions do their job, so it's just about that, nothing else. The HDZ at no time said the explicits we are against, so HDZ offered to wait for it to be done and it will be over in the next few days and some two parent committees, which are the Committee on Finance and the Economy of Discussions, see this report by these independent auditors and that's that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49232	Thank you, Mr. Shuker. Next replica, Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49233	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Shuker, you as a longtime official who you were inside the system know that the state of audit, much better than... our parliamentary representatives and the fact is that tools, you were the minister of finance that the ministry has not only audited, meaning and many other tools could be used in the case of Agrokor such as tax inspection, depth inspection, tax registrar there was then, but were these institutions and tools that could be used. Unfortunately, we have information that neither the IRS has entered Agrokor nor been allowed in, nor what should have been done because the state has given a huge amount of money to Agrokor through subsidies, agriculture and who knows which subsidies until this concert has actually taken over the entire economic system and has simply begun to choke him. That's what you had to know about. You're telling the HANFA report, what year was it? I don't know what year it was. I know that in 2012, the governor said that in 2012, ten billion kunas of bonds were released without Agrokor's cover. It's also a statement that there's a blow to financial stability. So we have institutions in the Croatian state that we can't, we pass the law, and we as a legislator, and the revision has no right to audit business, the CNB and you know it well. Which is why as a legislator, we do not have the right to gain insight into business, not the pressure that went through the EU to... political factors in order to squeeze from the EU that we are influencing internal policy. We have protected caste that led to this situation, and the Alte Ministry has not used them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49234	Thank you, Mr. Bull. The answer to the replica, Agent Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49235	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, so I was the minister who passed the first Revision Act with one and the main goal of not coming to Croatia, the Croats make them work, get change, and they pick up creams all over the story. And as the law was passed, so did the audit work and the audit chamber and everything. And the minister saw with his associates certain anomalies, and at the moment when the provisions of the new EU directive were brought into line, he realized the need for this part that was so far about registering and control in the Auditory Chamber might not be good to be there, but rather to be with an independent body, looking at and seeing, he probably has the best picture he is. He suggests that it be at the Ministry of Finance. There are excellent auditors in Croatia, too, just to be honest, the question is whether, with all due respect to the auditory houses in Croatia, whether their signature has weight in international financial institutions, is equal to some respected audit houses. We must fight to allow our audit houses to be so educated that they are competitive in third countries, that they can get jobs there, and also that in EU members they can compete for work and that after a while, the strength of their signature and the certified audited report will have the strength of some respected auditory house. That's the point of this whole story that I've been trying to tell today on behalf of the HDZ Club, and not now dealing with things, politically or collecting cheap political points. So, I think I have a lot of right to say, because at the end of the day in 10 years there's not much we can do. But I think we've made a big step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49236	I thank Mr. Shucker for his reply to the replica. That's what we've done with the presentations on behalf of the representatives' clubs, and now we're on our way to an individual debate. We have two reports. It's Mr. Bull's first. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we talk about auditors and the revision in the Republic of Croatia, we can see that in the collapse it is mainly about fighting for common interest, that everything is in ruins, and particularly in the economic situation. Because these people probably worked both these societies and people auditors were doing their job, but the fact as Mr. Shucker said we signed it. We have an obligation not to have an internal audit of the business of the CNB. This is the fact that you voted for it and that there was no protection of the sovereign institute of the Croatian state, that it has the right in every institution in which the Croatian Parliament... when it is unanimous in this Parliament, so both SDP and HDZ have thus functioned has not been protected, so that sovereign part that the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian state has the right to all institutions to audit the same right, that auditors do their job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry the minister's out now because it's very serious stuff. So you yourself admitted that you signed it and probably when you were a minister, that you signed with the European Union, with those EU bodies that there was no revision of the Croatian National Bank. Well, we didn't have to sign it. We didn't have to sign it, because then it's nonsense. [[/Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Excuse me, you have a replica. Please. Thank you.]] What is the meaning of all the audits if we have protected certain institutions that are the key culprit of instability in Croatia mainly regarding Agrokor. Ten billion kunas were used, so Agrokor's bond was released without cover and that's what the governor himself said, he admitted it recently. This isn't just about any government, it's about governments that used to run this country. So, the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia has been compromised, financial stability has been compromised because of what we have signed, we have seriously signed it. That's just high treason! Sign something against this Parliament. Why? Because people choose us here in Parliament voters, and we have no influence on the business of an institution like the Croatian National Bank. That's a fact. And that letter was sent to us even from these institutions, that we had no right to carry out as an audit of business in the CNB. So what are those sacred cows? The sacred cows, and they are most responsible, because the president of the Stability Council, the financial stability of the governor was just bit by the finance minister, but most of them have the governor, his deputies, Vice Governor, and I personally am with the experts, of course, not I wrote, experts, I also wrote a criminal report that I submitted. So now I don't know if the State's Attorney's office has done anything about what the Croatian society has put into this situation. We have tools. Here's the tax, why he never got into a tax-debt inspection or some kind of inspection inside of Agrokor. So what's the point of the audit, if we gave 5 billion kuna for agriculture, for the OPG, for dairy production, for the increase of the dairy fund for the production of milk, if 64000 we burned to 4600 dairy producers, and 5 billion kuna was given a subsidy. Where did these subsidies go? And for 60,000 we lost in the last five, six, seven years we lost the milk manufacturer. It means that the subsidies that were supposed to leave the EU funds, support when he was Minister Jakovina, also went to these very concerts, which were doing small OPG fakes or whatever they were getting that money. And that's why Slavonia's empty now, so now Dalmatia's empty, that's why it's frozen, Lika. Because we didn't have a modern policy and therefore all of these tools that the ministry had from tax to audit had not been used, and what the audit had done, the question of what the State's Attorney's Office and the institutions that had to deal with and, as a warning, that they were solving cases as a judiciary, would certainly have been a much better warning, that 50 billion kuna had a debt, which the entire Croatian system is holding by the throat and, of course, that at this point, it would have been serious about the revision, i.e. about auditors, about the company of auditors, probably people doing their job, and I'm not going to get into that and the state audit. But the fact that the tools of the state, which the ministers had, the government did not use well, and the judiciary of course did not do its job, so that we have days of the Pharaohan institutions, institutions that behave both above parliament and above the government and above the president of the Republic of Croatia, that is the CNB. Where former Governor Rohatinski went and he knew nothing about what was in Agror. Of course, from where the minister came from. Of course, they don't know anything, but they're even exempt, and now we have to save what's to be saved. And who knows what's gonna happen. But it's symptomatic of your statement, we said we signed it when we joined the EU. Yes, but when the Croatian people voted to join the EU, they did not get the exact facts, which is why something for which it is not a debate against, but was going to shine on us stars. This is why young people are now leaving for Ireland because of the signatures you put on behalf of the people, and the people did not give that support or knew what was signed in the negotiations. It was unanimous in this House that it was voted to join the EU, so it changed even the referendum law, that below 50% of the people went out around 30% of the people, so it was only 15 for the EU and today we have what we have. There was not a modern policy, a policy together with the EU, if we want to enter the EU and therefore enter the EU, in this way it was a death sentence for people who were looking for a fundamental question, which is why they join the EU. So why we have now entered the EU, we must not declare an economic belt. Which is why in our waters the Italians hunt, most Italians, 3 billion kunas of fish, in our waters, with their fleets. Well, on every issue, we don't have any grain, dignity, and modern politics, just because we signed what we shouldn't have signed. And the question of how many the ministry and the whole system of quality people, you said there wasn't, that people are going to have to be educated, that they have material needs of their own, that they can meet, of course, that they have vehicle technique, everything they need to have, to do their sexes, that's what you said yesterday. Of course, the state needs to invest. And what's the point if people do audits and the state does nothing? So from agriculture to all other things means, it's simply destroyed everything, because the tools of the government and the Parliament that was demoted should have been key to decisions. I know, when we proposed, here's the look of Professor Lovrinović, when we proposed, when we were together at the club, when we suggested that at least this part of the review be inside, the internal audit of Croatia, the business of the CNB, then you, as president of the club, were handed over to me, the better president of the club than Bačić, here's a little joke. But I want to tell you that you're against it then. We had to leave the sessions in this place, it was in the previous government. No one must be above Parliament, for the people choose us. We're not... Someone behind us will be here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why I want these tools that have the Ministry and other bodies to use, because the state pays both auditors and audits, and those states that are independent, also pay certain institutions, competitions and public institutions and companies, so I think it is humiliating that one institution in the Republic of Croatia should not enter a revision such as the CNB. And I'm asking you a question, Minister, is not here, Deputy, which is why until now and never the revision has entered the internal business of the CNB and then every other revision is pointless and I'm sorry that there is a minister here too, because I'm asking him again about Agrokor, which is why never the tool tax, which has not entered, the tax inspection has not entered Agrokor, so far we haven't got the answer is simply when the key man finance is the main man finance Minister Maric is exempt or leaving this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49238	Thank you. We have four replicas at Mr. Bull's hearing. The first replica is from Mr. Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49239	Thank you very much. Col. Bulj, I never said it was signed that the audit could not enter the CNB, I only said it was signed that the amendment of the CNB Act must be communicated with the Central Bank in Brussels, and that is for one reason only because Croatia is heading towards the Eurozone. And what I was saying two years ago is I'm going to tell you and now, remember the club when your president said the government didn't make any kind of decision, so when I gave him the paper that the government made that decision, we could make a mistake. So, fellow Bulj, two things need to be done, the ministry needs to do because it can communicate with the Central Bank... serious state, propose an amendment to the CNB Act, is also in preparation to amend the Law on State Audit and should only be installed in Article 6 that the State Audit can carry out a review of the business of the CNB in that part that does not touch monetary policies. And that's all we have to do, and it's all gonna go away, so nothing else needs to be done. And I was saying that, and when I was like you said in front of the HDZ Club, that's what I'm saying today, and I'll always say that. And secondly, it's not easy to accuse people of being traitors, etc., so you can't if you want to be part of something you have to follow those rules. So tell me what economic situation Croatia would be in today if we were not an EU member, that many of our entrepreneurs could not go directly and arrange certain jobs. And look at what part of the economic branch, which is the most growing part of the micropart in macroeconomic indicators, is growing industrial production and export growth, and this is because our valuable masters can now sell freely in any EU member state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49240	Thank you, Mr. Shuker. The answer to Mr. Bull's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49241	Comrade Shuker, you've said exactly what we signed with Brussels, and as agreed, we have to respect it, we're serious people. I consider what was signed and the way it went into the EU and the very course of negotiations that it was against the interests of the people was then not said what was good to represent, which is bad but unanimous was that by joining the EU it would be all for Croatia ok. However, they are not such results. Today on shelves the same product that is in Germany, Sweden in Croatia is much more unquality and much more expensive. And what we've been destroying for years has now been destroyed even more in Croatia. The only thing we've set up for them is the market for their goods and what we're exporting our most skilled labour force that goes to third countries. We didn't absolutely protect anything, nothing. The most important thing is that they leave the whole family, the most painful. We have two-thirds of Croatia's empty, destroyed shipbuilding, agriculture, industry. So what are the benefits when we enter the EU, when you negotiate and when you sign, there is a Croatian people in this area that we have empty hearths. We are part of Europe and we are in Europe and we do not need to be ashamed of it or to prove that we are in Europe, but we have entered in a way that is at least serviceable and against the interests of the people, and the only fact that we have today in the Republic of Croatia is empty, and 90% of all is destroyed, and some are not seen except for individuals who have taken over the entire country and the economic system in their hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49242	Thank you very much. The next replica was announced on the phone by parliamentary representative Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49243	Thank you very much. Comrade Bull, I've been following your exhibits, so I don't understand some things. Until a few months ago, you were in a coalition with HDZ, so my colleague Shuker gave me a little bit of information that surprised me that they actually wanted to change the CNB law to enter the audit. Now you're just saying it's not true, so tell me who's actually telling the truth here? And secondly, the fact is, I agree with you, you are not a professor of finance but I am fascinated by your intuition that you have realized that the CNB is an extremely big and huge problem. Why do you want to pass laws like this so everything can be revised, and in this case it is the only state institution because it is the owner if citizens do not know who are following now, the owner of the CNB is the Croatian state of the Republic of Croatia. So, then, a law should be passed that applies to all others, not to what is a public public interest. It is clear to me that by returning Mr Shuker to the parliament as the HDZ has decided to continue economic policy and I no longer respond to such comments because it is simply terrifying. They've destroyed a good part of the country's system. But to focus on the question of you, how do you even function in this situation when HDZ is struggling with both hands and feet so that the State Audit doesn't enter the CNB? What do you think of the reasons why they fight so hard not to enter the State Audit?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49244	Thank you. The answer to Mr. Bull's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49245	When my colleague Schuker was president of the club, you might want to forget, you were with me at the Most Club, and together we were leaving the session when he didn't want to pass the law, you remember that when the vote was held we left the session no matter what was voted and what we were then in cooperation with HDZ and the fact that MOST requested an audit because you witnessed it, it was in the term when Karamarko was and I really hope because you are in power now, because one of yours is changing Croatia, it imitates the government, and the other your vice president is a secretary at the Justice Department, that you will choose to enter the CNB audit because no one can be protected. I will give you the support of myself as I gave you in your attitudes before we were together at the club and the fact, and you know that there was a brake first of all from Mr. Shucker's club president who insisted not to vote on the law, that the audit be in the CNB, i.e. We left the session here for the vote, you remember that very well. Why don't they want to? Because there's a complete problem. I personally, my colleague Lovrinovic, have filed criminal charges for these bonds of 10 billion kunas, I personally copied and gave it, I hope you have read and seen it, experts have done it, because it was a blow to the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia, primarily by the Financial Stability Council, which is headed by the governor and his deputies and minister but has most governors. I did it, for sure, that they protect their affairs and machinations, but it is certainly not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia what the audit does not enter the CNB, and to see business, not to interfere with monetary policy, but to be the same as all other institutions... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49246	Thank you, Mr. Bull, for your reply to the replica. Next replica, Mr. Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49247	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, in your debate it is visible and I think more and more the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who are in the interest of being transparent and who isn't. So, in your debate, you also mentioned the issue of revision in the CNB, what the HDZ is blocking, you also mentioned that people in HDZ are obviously concerned about what might be learned in Agrokor, a commission in Agrokor, simply people have to be aware of that. So, there are people in this country who still, now, are not just a question of the role of the Croatian Parliament that is completely degraded here, but it is a question of whether people can trust their representatives, in the Croatian state, in institutions. When we hear debates in this assembly, let us wait for some offices, audit houses to end, we trust them more than representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the debate in the Croatian Parliament, and that is a very nice signal in which direction and how HDZ behaves and what it wants to do with our country and what the role of the Croatian Assembly in our country is at all, no matter what the Constitution has prescribed. And you've noticed well, there are those who are bothered by it, there are those who are bothered to ask and insist on it at all, so they are declared opponents of the constitutional-legal order, that is, I would say, "transparent parties", individuals of politics which unfortunately now have power in the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49248	I thank Mr. Maras. The answer to Mr. Bull's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49249	Comrade Maras, the fact that the commission, in this case around Agrokor or any other commission in the Assembly, is that it is good to clarify the situation because it has really brought the Croatian economy to the brink of destruction, and the fact is that it is a huge problem. And the fact there's a lot of fear, so only when we see who's employed, by the former governor, by a number of ministers, is it not relevant now from HDZ, SDP, the wife highly positioned,... but the fact that there's no concern that the truth should be revealed, because the fact that one concert was isolated from all inspections, audits, means and there's nothing to be afraid of, was he a parliamentary representative from HDZ, SDP, MOST or I don't know, why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why wouldn't that commission be, in essence, not a persecuting authority, but it determines some facts like the Immunological one, we were unique, we were chaired by Mr. Sincic, the job was done, anomalies, errors... established and now referred to institutions that will do their job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we are the largest body, at this point the Parliament and no one above it must be, not the CNB nor any concert or anyone, but the fact that the decision-making centre has so far not been in Parliament, and we parliamentary representatives must protect the integrity of the Parliament because this is parliamentary democracy and the people has given us the power to fight for everything that the Constitution has prescribed, as you said and the commission, and there is no problem that this commission and I don't know why the brakes to establish the commission and to establish it by the Constitution and by the law and by the rules that this High House has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49250	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the representative Sincic Ivan Willibor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49251	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This country desperately needs reforms, we are a society that could soon collapse into itself, we have not seen reforms, and I am sorry that both the left and right sides of this assembly on foreign policy issues, NATO, the EU, issues such as the ZERP, exclusively the economic belt, CETA, political system issues, how representatives and other bodies are elected, the questions of referendums and laws on it, the issue of the financial system, so here are banks, often mentioned CNB, HANFA, judicial system and structure, the organisation of the state administration of units of local self-government, etc., think alike or at best very similar. There is no reform and there will be no reform as long as they have the influence they have. As for the EU accession referendum, the whole accession process was led by a co-worker? I'll remind you. Right now, Prime Minister Plenkovic. He was the one in charge who ran those processes back then. As far as our influence is concerned, and in this case with the National Bank, he's very small. Our influence in Europe has said them negligible. I remember when I was the only one here in the Parliament, so I had more influence here among you 150 than Croatia there in the EU and by the number of MPs. You can see that. I will remind only about sovereignty and we will return to this topic on more occasions when American colonies have sent MPs to London to speak for them, they have told him by chance don't become a member of Parliament there, don't accidentally ask the colonies to have a representative in that Parliament because they will vote us there. To such a relationship the forces of the American colony will not agree And we got into that position. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49252	Thank you very much, Mr. Sincic. As I say, this is Parliament, but I have to say that otherwise it is the subject of the draft law on audit. Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49253	My colleague Sincic, there must be no one above the Croatian Parliament. It is so according to the Constitution, this is parliamentary documentation and the fact is that the way is here, as counterpart Schuker said, means entering the EU, he says there is no revision, meaning business in the CNB because we signed it with the EU, with Brussels. So what's that? Why this Dom in the first place? What is the people's choice at all? This is where the Tribba put one protectorate, one person from Brussels, and to be him, Mr. Shucker, and that I still don't know who and that they're obediently dealing his information, documents. This is one sovereign home that should be, most transparently, joins the EU, and not in the year when the trial is a referendum, when the campaign from this Parliament has been conducted unanimously on the EU accession, does not speak the facts we get, what we lose by joining the EU, and not by shining stars, we will have gold, paved floors, it will be. Actually, it's the opposite. So in the year itself, the amendment to the referendum law that 50% plus one voter should not be released says that it was forced, semitronic, servile, and that then this House was offended. Those dead bones that fell for this Homeland, they shouldn't have allowed it. And that word, we signed it, the CNB is protected as a face bear, if it can't stay. And then we end this Parliament and let's confess to the people that we've capitulated. And no one has given anyone authority to capitulate and sign anything in front of European officials. From Carla Delponte who did what she wanted, so according to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49254	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. Replication time's up. The last of the individual debates was reported by Mr. Gordan Maras. Here's Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49255	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. When we talk about the Revision Act and everything that is covered by it, I absolutely agree that a new law should be passed and that these amendments are good and necessary for the Republic of Croatia not only because they transfer certain things that have been adopted in other EU countries and experiences that are needed both in Croatia and in terms of transparency and strengthening public supervision and with the independence of the auditor and all that they do. Because we see how much problems are sometimes related to this job and the public authority that the auditors received, and we see how much in the developed economies of the world the problems are related to, or how many audit houses in some other countries are sometimes the cause and major crises that may have been predicted. What bothers me in this whole story, I'm gonna say one more time I'm gonna uphold the law. But I'm bothered by motives. So, we are constantly when we propose laws related to what has been adopted somewhere in the European Commission or given to European directives, and we are essentially proposing and adopting certain things. But when it comes to transparency in Croatia, when it comes to things that could solve for themselves, it never happens. It never happens, or hide things from the public, hide problems. We do not want to discuss the public scene in front of Croatian citizens, we do not want to give them information. And many of the things that happen in Croatia and the injustices that happened here are precisely the reason for such behaviour. It is frightening that we have had such an economic crisis this year, which is partly and perhaps not partly, but also largely caused and unquality audit work, where information has not been adopted and processed in the best possible way. And then it was possible for people to be surprised for years, and even here we see, and the minister says that he wasn't aware even though he was working in Agrokor based on a report that he was getting from an auditory house that was the scale of the problem. Can you imagine that information? One man who was educated, who was in charge of selling bonds in Agrokor on the basis of reports made by auditors, to whom he was the basis for the sale of those shares, or those bonds in the capital markets, says that he did not, meaning he was given objective information or was not familiar with the situation that was happening in Agrokor. So in this situation, instead of trying all the circumstances around it, political, formal, informal lighting. We have led ourselves to the situation, i.e., not us, but the HDZ has brought Croatia into a situation that throws a veil of secrets around Agrokor and wants everything to remain hidden, without information and that some things are obviously swept under the carpet. And that's why I'm wondering if the motivation here is essentially the government and HDZ's proposal to give full information, to strengthen this profession, or whether it's just the EU's pressure, to change some things. Because if it were HDZ's interest, transparency, availability of information, public debate, then there would be no reason why HDZ is opposed to the Agrokor parliamentary commission. No, no, then HDZ would be the first to propose, as it did in the beginning in and in the debate, that decision suddenly changed, at the beginning of the debate on the HDZ commission was for the commission. But what happened overnight? Whether Minister Maric, Minister Dalic, Prime Minister Plenkovic sat down and concluded that they wanted to store the information under the carpet and do this part of the work currently in the concert's temporary administration. Citizens are justifiably asking, which is why Mr. Shucker is hiding information from them. For whatever reason any other representative in this Croatian Assembly wants to hide information from Croatian citizens. And then we can throw everything at jokes and jokes, as we hear here from representatives of the HDZ Club of Representatives, Shucker, that these are all professional people, would be on the commission, that they all get it and later they can go to the Ministry of Finance to work, etc. We might laugh here, too, but that's not funny. That's not funny. Our people here have chosen to do something for them. To question, the Constitution states the need for public information, public debates with the investigative committee. Well, I guess someone in HDZ didn't allow himself to assess his expertise as a criterion of public debate. So if we don't have top auditors here in the Parliament, we shouldn't be discussing Mr. Shucker in any subject related to the audit. Unless we have experts in the field of health, I guess we shouldn't have adopted a proposal for an investigative commission on the Immunological Institute, but we adopted it. Why has no commission in the Republic of Croatia so far been an investigative problem to adopt in Parliament, but Agrokor is the problem? They're wondering about our citizens. What changed in HDZ was that so far it wasn't the problem of the INA or Victor Lenac or the Immunological Institute, about 100 other topics, but it's around Agrokor. Is there a reason this government has umbilical cord attached to Agrokor? As it was a bound minister who worked and was part of the leadership of Agrokor, is that the reason? Is the reason what is now happening about Agrokor, which is filled with news columns, portals, related to further sales, not privatisation, selling companies. Because the state took all the risk on itself. It is nice now to be Minister Dalic or Mr Ramljak who decides how to burden Jamnica, other companies, Star, Ledo, to whom will he sell them, and guarantees who? Croatian state. They'll do their job that the law has allowed them to do and we've done the best we can, and tomorrow the lawsuits, whether the bank, the former owner, etc. all fall on the back of Croatian taxpayers, exceptional work. It is really important to congratulate HDZ for transferring everything to Croatia and allowing people who are there now to work and to influence hundreds and billions and tens of billions of kunas. Does that bother HDZ when we talk about the revision and the issues that could be established here? Be careful what bothers them, even if it bothers them to establish a commission where they would have a majority. So this committee can't reach its conclusion without HDZ. They're distracted by any debate. They want to put, move things under the carpet and get away with Cwitan and the DORH. It's as if the commission has an exclusive or any basis for doing investigative work, so it's not a matter of commission. The issue of the commission is also a political context. The question of the commission is the connection of some people. You know, we have some experience in this, and I know what we've been doing around INA, and what the results are about INA. And no one should be afraid. I'm not afraid. Then why would anyone from HDZ be afraid? Any questions related to the commission. If of course, it's not an emergency what I said, which is to hide things. To sweep under the carpet, I guess they're praying to God in HDZ for Cvitan to open up some investigation into some problem that's related to Agrokor, so to say here you see, now you can't. So you did read the request at all, the request is so wide that there is no way that any investigation, specifically the DORH does not allow at least one part of the debate and the work of the commission. So DORH can't, whatever he does, lead to you being needed, whatever. As many people as you can process there, you can't cover the entire request for an investigative commission. And you won't hide from this. You have to say that every day. Until Agrokor finally does what I think the whole law is about to do, which is to decide who gets what... We can't let that happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49256	Thank you very much Mr. Maras for this extraordinary extensive debate on the proposal for the Audit Act. We have three replicas. The first replica is from Mr. Misic Ivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49257	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I would like to ask you something since you were probably, and you were, five years ago in the government of the SDP, were you then far-sighted and seen, your party, that Agrokor was going the wrong way? Well, every normal citizen and I as a businessman have seen Agrokor raise loans from Russian banks, when European banks don't lend him loans, everyone could see that this company is going the wrong way. That's when you kept your mouth shut. Did you love him today when this government tried to save him that Agrokor went bankrupt? We know that bankruptcy is a blockage of the company, layoffs of workers, the whole chaos is made. And then what happens? Then grab whoever gets who and where whoever takes what. However, I consider the economy that this government has made one real move, trying to save Agrokor as much as possible. I hope that this will work, and I hope that this government will keep this government from selling Agrokor for anything and not allowing anyone to come and rule the entire system. We must all gather together, especially the parties leading the policy these 25 years, to blame for everything that is going on in Croatia. You're not washed away by the guilt you've been dealing with politics, you're not washed away, gentlemen. You are the accomplices of what is happening today in the Croatian state and all the problems in the Croatian state. This government today, which is headed by Plenkovic, is certainly not guilty, at least I am talking about the prime minister who has come and is trying to solve this problem. It's the easiest thing to talk from the bench when I'm not in the party is your fault. Well, all of you gentlemen have been guilty these 25 years of running this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49258	Thank you very much, Mr. Muscle. Time's up. The answer to Mr. Maras' replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49259	Thank you very much. Mr. Misic, I'm not psychic, so I don't behave like that in my political work and I can't deal with all things and I'm not fully aware of everything, but what you're defending me, and we'll see that because I'm sure you support transparency, we'll see when the vote comes on the investigative committee whether it's in your best interest to find out, and it is. So here's Mr. Misic speaking certainly, so he'll vote for the establishment... /The speakers speak at the same time./... to see what your integrity is, now you said you were for it, and we'll see how you'll vote, as a businessman, as a man who has his integrity, fights for his views, and I'm very interested in how you'll vote after you've now said it's in your interest. And when most people get here the way HDZ decides, we'll see what you squeeze. Here's some people based on that assessment, and I'm going to tell you how you voted or praised or criticized the next period because you're going to show as part of the ruling majority that it's not in your interest as HDZ to hide some things rather than to let our citizens see. Well, if he's guilty and Gordan Maras can see it, I have no problem with that. Which is why Mr. Schucker has a problem with it, which is why, or Mr., now that I'm not saying sorry, Ivan, I'm not a coincidence now that you're the most person I'm looking at right now. ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that's on the other side. Okay. [[/Intruder Doncic: With good I really ask you all to maintain one level of communication. Mr. Maras for a second, we'll stop time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49260	So please try not to fall into the words of the speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49261	Thank you very much. I am pleased that Mr. Misic has now confirmed that he is for the investigative commission, we will see how he will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49262	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras. Next replica, Mr. Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49263	Thank you very much. My colleague, Maras, I have answered the line no matter what you, after my replica, can answer whatever you want. And I volunteered for the replica because of the fact that I can confirm your clubmates, I sincerely hope they won't tell anyone that he's looking into his eyes and lying. So your condition for the appointment of constitutional judges is to go parallel to the investigation committee, the HDZ proposal was ok. Let's wait for a report from the temporary administration and an audit report, discuss it on the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance, and then we'll make a final decision, so it was a political proposal from the HDZ. And it's not fair or correct that you've been imputing that someone's against something all along. So you're like you did, but your offer is blackmailing, we've made a political offer. Nothing's going to change that significantly. The second thing, therefore, is that the expert opinion in the Republic of Croatia is that the law lex Agrokor prevented the inn of healthy businesses in Agrokor. You can't tell me, you're not so much of a catcher of things that the sudden fall of shares of the most valuable companies in Agrokor led to the break-up. The Lex Agrokor Act prevented it. These two reports will offer not only to the government but to the entire Croatian public an answer to some questions, and that is what the two of us can discuss. Everything beyond that context is simply a political invention. And when you talk about laughter, you've been talking all the time and laughing snidely. Which is why I don't know who. And one more thing, at no point did you mention the HANFA reports, and it refers to some period that no one from HDZ was able to make decisions, however. Remember my argument when you changed the HANFA Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49264	Thank you very much, Mr. Shucker. The answer to Mr. Maras' replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49265	Thank you very much. Mr. Schucker, the HDZ offer was let's see, so we'll decide, that means you don't know if you're up for a public debate or not. So what are we arguing about? So we're buying time for two, three months and then we'll say no. Please don't. What does the report of the auditor hired by Mr Ramljak have to do with it and... why could the commission not be able to obtain this report as will the Croatian public, government or anyone else, so what does this have to do with each other? And you do not know what the context is, so the context of that report will not cover everything that we have covered with the request for commission. Not even 10%. Don't be honest, be honest and tell the Croatian public why you're against the commission. These aren't sincere motives, that's not so. So you said in the debate that you were at the beginning, that you don't mind, but you keep stalling, hiding, you don't allow public debate about Agrokor in the Croatian Parliament, that's the problem. That's what people need to hear. Well, the constitutional category is the investigation committee. So we are here because of this in the Croatian Parliament, to talk about issues of public interest. So you can't stop it, you're suffocating parliamentaryism in Croatia, you're suffocating parliamentaryism, you don't want public issues to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, because of certain interests. I can't say exactly at this point which, but because of certain interests. And it is very important, Mr. Schuker, what will be the property and what will be the property of Agrodor and the company after the whole process, although Mrs. Dalic as it does not matter who owns it, is very important, and you will see in which direction it will be ić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49266	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras. Mr. Shucker, here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49267	Mr. Vice President, I believe that in view of the provisions of Article 238, paragraph 5, you must have been reminded of Mr. Maras. When there is no strength or rhetorical ability to respond to the specific facts that are being said here, it is insulting and it is something that is simply unacceptable and I have never, in these 17 years, come down below some level that the High House deserves but also from some people when you ask them specific questions, and these are the questions of the HANFA report, and these are issues offered by the HDZ Club, there are no concrete answers, and that is the case, the situation at the SDP Club is best shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49268	Thank you very much, Mr. Shucker. So, honestly, this may have been some style figure of Mr. Maras, I'll probably quote that "be fair," but that's probably taken out of context, and you and Mr. Maras are therefore more temperamental, so I'm not going to let you hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I'm going to give the word to Mr. Angel Strick as a last line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49269	Thank you. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Maras, here is the impression that you are still under the influence of yesterday's debate by your party chief Bernardic. As regards yesterday's debate on the State Audit report on the work of companies, the effectiveness of the supervisory boards and other reports. Namely, your party boss, the SDP president yesterday for the period from 2013 to 2015 was the report when the SDP-led ministers led the SDP, the management presidents or directors, the SDP-filled supervisory committees, so Bernardic says people can't paint and throw dust into the eyes with some of the recommendations that you wrote here, which may be good but draw attention from the real problem, what kind of corruption and crime is happening in the background. Since you were part of the government, means Minister of Milanovic's Government, perhaps you are aware of what crime and corruption the SDP president referred to yesterday, Mr Bernardic and those related to the SDP government and the SDP? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49270	Thank you, Mr. Uncle. The answer to Mr. Maras' replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49271	Thank you very much. Mr. Strick, you're great this really man up here, like you caught up in the part of Bernardic, no. Well done. It's really amazing how you managed to do it, but I'll tell you one thing. So, man doesn't live from one period to another, 2015, two years behind us. For two years, HDZ, or nearly two years, is in power, we see what's going on, we see how public companies are working, we see that there's still a lot of HNS directors in their places, so life goes on. But what is important is that the State Audit does the job in quality, not only for 2013, 2015 but 2016, 2017 and each year thereafter. In the SDP, we will also advocate transparency and strong control of public companies and public enterprises and ministries as we will advocate, unlike you, that Croatian citizens have the right to know everything, that nothing Mr. Plenkovic or Mr. Schuker or Mr. Strick here in the Croatian Parliament will be unreachable and any citizen of our country through the debate here. This is the difference between the SDP and the HDZ, you plant things under the carpet, you want to protect the interest circles that are now lurking around Agrokor, various interests are lurking here, nothing will be resolved by any debate on the Committee on Finance and the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. I guess Mr. Shuker and you have more faith in me as an agent than in some paid audit house that does a report for Agrokor or whoever ordered it and paid for it. That's why we're here, Mr. Striker, to protect the public interest, not to hide things under the carpet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49272	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras. This concluded individual debates, replicas of individual debates and everything that goes with it and before the debate was concluded, so for the final word, Finance Minister Mr. Maric reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I think it is also my turn that, at the end of the debate in the context of the first reading, of course, thanks for the debate, mostly for the first part of the debate and for the clubs, I think it was a constructive and good debate. You pointed out and I was glad of course to hear that without, of course, implying, how you will ultimately determine yourself in the law, but that you support a law like this, that it is good, that it is certainly a step forward. One of the things you pointed out was believe us too was one of the subjects, perhaps the longest debate we had internally, and that was just about that supervisory body. And surely before the Ministry of Finance stands I would say a great challenge. On the one hand, of course, we have good people, and there are certain criteria and conditions that we ourselves have prescribed, and on the other hand we are aware of the deep that are actually a number of restrictions in the system of state administration in terms of employment, rewarding and generally stimulating the best people. But we're ready to take that challenge. I'll just say that otherwise it's the experiences of other countries, I'm in the introductory section and I said that in some countries it's within the Ministry of Finance, for example in one ministry, the Ministry of Economy. There were some other examples of a separate agency, but we felt that given the situation with a number of agencies that we had set up during our pre-accession and accession process, I would say even part of the inflation of those agencies, that we were indeed trying to be maximumly rational, efficient, and that this single body was here at the Ministry of Finance. Of course, and all the other comments we'll be going through the government procedure very quickly and I'd say I'll see you soon within the second reading on the same subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49274	Thank you very much, Mr. Maric. On his final word we have one replica. Mr. Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49275	Thank you very much. Let me just mention it one more time. I am pleased that this law is passed, i.e. that we will have a better and better quality Revision Act, and I would personally ask you to influence as much as you can on Minister Dalic and Prime Minister Plenkovic to allow the investigative commission on Agrokor. I think it will help you personally in the work of the future to remove certain doubts that are now in the public presence. So, if you are in a position, and I believe you will be, talk to Minister and Minister Dalic and Prime Minister Plenkovic and try to convince them that the Croatian public has the right to know everything about Agrokor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49276	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras. Replication response, Minister Maric. He said no. So that's how we conclude the debate, and we'll vote when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49277	Proposal for a Revision Act, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 172. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a Law on Audit is hereby adopted and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 122 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49278	We are going to the next - Final proposal of the Law on Housing Consumer Credit, second reading, P.Z. No. 120. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The amendments were submitted by MP Goran Aleksic and the Legislative Committee. Would the proposaler's representative like to add an additional explanation? Mr. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49279	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished and respected ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today, here is another point, or here is the final proposal for a law on residential consumer lending. I will remind you at the fourth session of the Croatian Parliament held on 30 June, a conclusion was reached that adopted the Proposal for a Law on Housing, Consumer Credit. The Croatian Parliament has, of course, sent comments to the Proposer, proposals and opinions to prepare the final draft laws which have been considered and the text of the bill has been completed. I would here in the opening part of the apostrophe or perhaps repeat some of the things in the summary form that I was talking about and what we talked about most in the context of that first reading. So, what is the most important news of the bill itself, that is, the final draft of the law. On the one hand, this is an increase in consumer information, and I can generally say that, from the directive to date, of course, implementation into our legislation is a great emphasis indeed put on the information segment and general consumer protection. This law introduces a European standardised information form at EU level which will contain all relevant information on the creditor, credit intermediary, the main features of credit, interest rate, early repayment and the like, and will make it easier for consumers to compare credit offers. Where a credit institution delivers a binding offer, it shall leave a period of at least 15 days for the consumer to make an informed decision within which the offer is binding on the credit institution. The consumer shall be entitled to give up the contract without any reason and without compensation within 14 days of the conclusion of the contract. Also, we have very clearly defined the calculation of the effective interest rate. So the calculation is even at EU level, with a certain mathematical formula to be used at the beginning and during the duration of the loan. A little bit later, I will say what we have also accepted as suggestions since the first reading, so we have been very detailed about the ECS, or effective interest rates, to be followed. The introduction of new credit charges during the duration of the loan and the undue increase in the fees that existed at the time of the conclusion of the housing credit agreement is prohibited. Of course, some of these prohibitions are already in existing legal regulations. Greater consumer protection in foreign currency lending. It is prescribed that the credit institution is obliged to inform the consumer every time the value of the total outstanding amount that the consumer is obliged to pay or regular meals, i.e. the annuity is changed by more than 20% for exchange rate changes. The credit institution shall be obliged once during the duration of the contractual relationship at the request of the consumer at any time during the contractual relationship to enable the conversion of the currency credit in which the credit has been nominated or to which it is linked to the alternative currency, and unconditionally. The credit institution shall not charge the consumer any compensation for this mentioned conversion. The terms and conditions of conversion shall include at least the method of determining the interest rate to be applied in the case of conversion. In carrying out the conversion, the credit institution shall not seek the replacement of property that serves as a means of insurance, additional means of insurance, or the assessment of residential property as a condition for the implementation of the conversion. We are also improving the process of assessing the consumer's creditworthiness. It is prescribed that credit assessment should be based on information on the financial and economic strength of the consumer including its revenues and expenditures, and should not be based on the fact that.... /. that the value of residential property is greater than the total amount of credit or on the assumption that the value of residential property will grow during the duration of the loan. Loans offered must be in line with the financial situation and consumer needs. The level of expertise and knowledge of credit institution staff and credit intermediaries shall be defined. We also believe that we are introducing an improvement in consumer protection in the event of difficulties in payment of commitments, prescribed that a credit institution is obliged to take reasonable and justified measures, with a view to reaching agreement on the payment of liabilities under a housing credit agreement, under which there are unpaid consumer claims prior to the launch of the executive procedure. Furthermore, measures to facilitate repayment may include the total or partial refinancing of the loan contract and or the modification of the prior terms of the loan contract, which may include, inter alia, the extension of the repayment period, the change in the type of real estate insurance, the delay in payment of the whole or part of the instalment or annuity for a certain period, the change in interest rate, the offer of a temporary suspension of payment. Also, you remember that we presented as a novelty in this law that it is explicitly prescribed that a credit institution can, with the consumer and the hostage, agree that transfer of ownership over the instrument of insurance of a residential consumer credit to a credit institution is considered to be a complete fulfillment of all the obligations of the housing credit contract, that is, so on. eng. The term.../The speaker speaks English... clauses. Also, we have additionally prescribed the arrangement of credit intermediaries. What is important to say in this introductory section is that what are the key differences compared to first reading, that we apostrophy them, so no.1 is detailedly arranged when credit insinuations and credit intermediaries are obliged to calculate an effective interest rate in order to increase consumer protection. It is prescribed that the effective interest rate is calculated during advertising, making available general information, making personalised information, entering into housing credit agreements and the duration of the contractual relationship. It is also prescribed that, among other things, I announced in the first reading debate, that a credit institution should not charge the consumer for early, partial or full compliance with the obligation of a housing credit agreement. It has been added that the credit institution assumes full and unconditional responsibility, for the transactions its related credit intermediary performs for it and thus additional coordination with Article 30 Directly, in terms of residential consumer credits has been carried out. Article 36. in paragraph 11, paragraph 11 has been deleted, which stated that the HNB workers are being supervised as an excess of the comments made by the Legislative Committee. Also, on the basis of remarks received from individual government resolutions, the ministry has increased the prevention of fines in infringements, and the same article has been added to the following remarks by the Ministry of Justice, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 44(3) is amended for the purpose of a clearer arrangement of the transitional period for credit intermediaries, which carry out the business of credit intermediation on the basis of the approved by the applicable consumer credit law and also amended the step-up to the effect of this law itself. It should be 8 days after the date of its publication, i.e. after its publication in N.N. Let me say a few words to those remarks and suggestions that have not been accepted, therefore, are not accepted remarks and suggestions from the parliamentary debate in the first reading, which are beyond the reach of the regulation of this law. Therefore, estimates of the value of the property used as a loan insurance instrument, the problem of blocked consumers, etc. or are contrary to the Directive on consumer credit agreements. A proposal to limit, for example, that credit can only be concluded with the currency clause of the euro or in kuna. Unless the consumer has income or property in another currency, as well as that the suggestion that conversion should not take place at a rate greater than 20% compared to the initial one. What I would say, in the end, is that we really believe that this law is truly thorough and because of a number of useful things that mean the implementation of European directives, but as usual, of course applied to our legislation and our market. I think that so far in the presentation and debate in the first reading we have seen and heard quite a positive echo and in the general and general expert public, so here, of course, at the end of this opening part, I look forward to a constructive debate, i.e. all your proposals and suggestions that you will have on this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49280	I thank Minister Maric. We have four replicas on his display. The first replica is from Mr. Maras. Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49281	Thank you very much, Mr. Maric for your presentation. The change proposed here will certainly be very useful to Croatian citizens, but what is important and what Croatian citizens expect you to say, given that it is consumer housing lending, that the cost of these properties, which our citizens will buy for the next few years, at least in the term of your government, will be nothing higher. In other words, that tax burden on real estate, not for one person, who will buy an apartment under this law, either bought an apartment or owned a property in the past period, will be no more. So a very clear provision for you as Minister, Kuna no longer, that you will not be. Not the unspeakable, one will replace the other, and then we'll leave it to the units of local self-government, etc. that people hear clearly from you in this House, that the next 3 years of tax burden on real estate, the law, whatever you call it, by the law of real estate tax, either way, will be no more than it is at this point. And one more thing, which is very important, is consumer lending, and what has now aroused the spirits, which is why me and the SDP Representatives' Club are strongly opposed, which is that people with old cars are additionally taxed, it's about a million and a half Croatian citizens in the Republic of Croatia. What you announced the other day, I hope it was a lapus, please explain it here once again on the public stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49282	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras. The reply to the replica of Minister Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49283	Absolutely, here in the right sense, I will thank you for this replica, because you give me the opportunity to talk about one subject that has been and caused a whole series of really wrong interpretations, but before that, as far as the first part of your question is concerned, so I think it's very clear to everyone, we talked about that proposal that went, and in the benches will be next week's Law on Local Taxes, and we will discuss it and there will be opportunities to talk about real estate taxation. So the idea was greater justice in the system of the existing ones that we have with the parameters that we were trying to introduce in order to make a distinction between real estates that are slightly older centuries old, mainly targeting our citizens and fellow citizens who have older properties to pay something less than those who have something newer, more meaningful real estate to pay something more. However, this problem, we will talk about it next week in the Croatian Parliament, and there will be opportunities still. As far as this other topic is concerned here, when you have already mentioned no matter what is not exclusively related to these, I would certainly ask you as a parliamentary representative of the distinguished and all others and in general in the public space that we are ultimately responsible. So listen to my interview that I gave to Croatian Radio, not one word but absolutely no word I spoke of any introduction of any new tax. The construction that was complex for me was unfortunately to admit, surprisingly, that yesterday in the Croatian Parliament you asked for a break and another distinguished representative, in fact a total replacement of thesis. And I invite you to take a look at it in an interview somewhere from the 30th minute where I was talking about the average age of the rolling stock, and that we have to make certain changes or corrections to make and from the safety environment and I don't know what other reason to rejuvenate the rolling stock. So not a word about any introduction of a new tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49284	Thank you very much, Mr. Maric. Next replica, Mr. Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49285	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers. My question is regarding the provision that in the event of an increase of 20% of the annuities to the citizens of the bank, it is necessary to inform citizens in that case. In chapter eight of this law, the advisory role of the bank is actually credit institutions, so I am now interested in if it happens by accident, it may... happen that the bank's client comes into the bank and asks around his personal banker a question that the annuity of my loan could grow in the future. Is it in that case that a personal banker or a bank is obliged to give such information or, in the event that it occurs, that I am talking about these 20%, only then, and legally, it is clear, only then or there is this other possibility that when the bank has knowledge that such circumstances might occur? For example, in the Swiss franc we remember the bank knew, they probably knew before such circumstances could occur, so they could inform clients through that part, but I understand here that the bill speaks of the time before the contract was concluded, that the advice was shared before the contract was concluded, and whether it was worth it later. I don't know if I've asked a question clearly enough, if you can answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49286	Thank you very much. The answer to the line, Mr. Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49287	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, of course, this is certainly one of the perhaps more important provisions of this whole law, mainly taking into account the experience that many Croatian citizens and citizens have experienced. This is Article 23, paragraph 8, is precisely prescribed when this change of 20% occurs that the bank is obliged to inform the citizen, so it is precisely written on paper or any other secret media. Now you're asking if we can notify if something is expected, I'd say this way if I'm not sure there's this personal banker or any financial expert who can so easily assess and predict some kind of movement. Some kind of advisory role is always as desirable as you and me and someone else, citizens and fellow citizens, friends ask which expectations are whether interest rates will and it is certainly as such, but to put some binding provision there would be virtually impossible. But I think that in this way we have really raised that protection that when such circumstances occur, and trends and all of us through public space should point out amongst other things, without now announcing some bad situations, but the bank, or credit institution according to this, has a very clear commitment to what it must do when it comes to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49288	Thank you very much, Mr. Maric. Next replica, Mr Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49289	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers, guests. So these legal changes have a beautiful form, they state a beautiful future, but unfortunately they do not solve debt slavery in Croatia. I expected those debtors who had already dared to say for decades to suffer under illegal loans, interest, margins to finally get some satisfaction from this law, but it's gone. In particular, my question is why are some of the legal changes not, do not have retrograde power or do not apply to already existing loans but apply exclusively to new loans? Here you have specifically cited the case of walking away, so going out of real estate in exchange for a loan and now I want to ask you, how was it possible that banks estimate the property at 10% higher than the amount of credit, and that after the banks took that same property, the debtor remains in debt of 30 or 40 percent and more than the principal of the amount of credit he received? So it would be logical if the real estate was estimated at an amount greater than the credit that the bank at any time had just come to an end in a year it must be charged. But no, people have been paying credit for ten years and then they have to hand over the real estate and stay practically half or a third of the bank's loans, that's really amazing. So I don't understand what mathematics is, which the laws have made possible, and on that side I would like to ask you, is it possible, in the end, that this walk away clause is applied and on the already existing loans, or that those who had to hand over the property in exchange for the loan simply to delete the rest of their debt? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49290	Thank you very much, Mr Branimir Bunjc. The answer to the line, Mr. Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49291	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, as far as I know, and I know for sure that I am not a lawyer, so now that we are entering legal interpretation under what circumstances, constitutionally speaking provisions, it is possible to prescribe some kind of retroactivity, so I am not just talking about European directives that also remove this possibility, but also about our domestics. So, on the other hand, we certainly didn't find the possibility to apply such a kind of provision, but already when you mention that provision of walking away from the clause, so it's precisely on the trail that I was saying, greater protection of consumers, now the consumer has exactly that possibility that in some way an uncertainty of the market element that an estimate of the value of real estate goes up or down. Also, I am here, or mostly down in this case that you mention, I also mentioned the introduction that is also a very important element of this law, when this conversion occurs, and in general, you remember the provision that I have worked closer on that the bank should not, the credit institution must not seek any other new assessment of the value or any additional insurance instrument in the sense that it now considers that this property value is somewhat lower, so now it needs to be complemented by some other insurance instruments, which so far in the existing legislative regulations, has not been said, and of course it has not been, certainly, that it has been a different practice. In this way we certainly call this maneuvering space so, narrowing it down or making it a repeat, more consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49292	Thank you very much. And the last replica, Mr. Ivica Micic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49293	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you two questions. How much do you plan on giving these favourable loans to young people you're stimulating, and I'm talking about next year, and is the bank's loan processing going to these same people that she's been doing every time, taking credit processing fees? And I believe that the bank collects everything through its interest rates and that the ministry will require the bank not to charge for the processing of the loan because it is charged through the realisation of the loan. Certainly what the colleague said, and these performances, which some agencies have assessed the value of some property, should not then be taken by the bank. And I think that would be realistic and that you should be in the ministry to fight for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49294	Thank you very much. The answer to the line, Mr. Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49295	Thank you very much. Your Honor, counsel, also a very good question. As for the very assessment of how many loans, I think that better insight into these things and the situation has a vice-president and Minister of Construction Mr. Stromar, and then for sure and when it is soon to be a new round of public address, it will be closer to mark, but I think we also see for the first time that, of course, the interest is great for the kind of activity that the Government has predicted and prescribed, and on the other hand, it is certain that what we have announced will also enable the resuscitation of that credit activity, among other things, and of course a small greater living on the real estate market that has survived and lived a lot of difficult times in the past, mainly, if compared to the one ahead of the crisis period when it was high growth and prices and, in general, the market itself. As far as these fees are concerned, I think, and it's good to repeat, that it's a very important thing that we've eliminated that so-called bill, so... compensation for early repayment of credit, either in part or in full, and I am sure it will be welcomed among clubs and MPs as well as to citizens in general. However, as far as the loan processing fee is concerned, we also made it very clear in this law. Number one, this is an integral part of the effective interest rate, the ECS, and on the other hand, that type of fee is limited to the amount of costs the bank has. Because without now intending to speak and elaborate details, the fact is that the bank still has to engage its own referents, professional services, etc. So there is a certain kind of cost, we are now allowing this type of fee to remain, but only to the height of these actual costs, so we certainly think that it will also be one significant reduction in the overall fee because this legal solution, and I would say competition among them, will do its and certainly to the benefit of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49296	Thank you very much, Mr. Maric. Before the debate, does the rapporteur of the Committee want to take the floor, the chairman of the Committee on Law and the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget? If not, then I open the debate, we have five registered clubs, before the break, will open a representative of the club of independent lists Mr Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49297	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is this legislative proposal found in the second reading, in the first reading we all agreed more or less that every solution that benefits consumers i.e. Citizens and especially on this sensitive issue of real estate or housing lending, any such solution that helps citizens is welcome and perhaps now is the opportunity to reiterate those few provisions of this law that are certainly to be welcomed. There were a few doubts, in my first reading, I remarked that Article 8 did not make it very clear which level of knowledge and level of expertise that the staff of the credit institution should have, and I see that the answer of the ministry stated that this was attached, which is the level of knowledge, because if we are talking about such a sensitive issue, and above all the advisory part which this legislative proposal proposes, in which the citizen must be given or the client of the bank complete information, then it is extremely important that whoever gives that information also has sufficient knowledge and expertise that such information would not be simply a failure, not because someone did not want to tell the information but rather what he knew and therefore it is good to define what exactly, which information credit institutions are obliged to give to the consumer. But before we go to the information, perhaps what seems to me the most important part of this law is what the minister mentioned earlier in providing conversion for citizens at any time of credit payment. Once, in fact, in the course of the loan payment, which is extremely important. This part about the 20% increase I think is, it's good and will help the citizens. But when there's an increase of 20%, then we're already in trouble. And I think that citizens, and I think that the ministry can do a lot through education, through some promotional materials, that citizens are constantly alerted to check courses, to see what's going on, to see how much in their ability they're following, and at the same time to go to the bank and advise themselves, to ask if there's a risk of a significant withdrawal course, and then with that, the annuity of credit. So, according to the Croatian National Bank, about 80% of foreign currency savings and hand-to-hand deposits are, therefore, too heavy in euro. And we think that in the future it will be that way and that in that sense most loans will have currency clauses. We now have information regarding this latest legislative proposal to encourage housing lending that a lot of banks are still being given favourable kuna loans, but I think that loans in euro will prevail. What I may have asked the minister, here is the secretary of state, was defined by one of the provisions of the articles that must be clearly indicated to the bank's client, which is the course according to which the payment of the credit will be made, and then the payment of the annuities. The law does not define it, and I do not know whether the client has the right to ask for money to be paid in the currency in which he raises it, so in that case, in euro on an open foreign exchange account. Is he entitled to such a request and whether the bank must fulfill it for him? Because it's mentioned in the law specifically in kunas. So that's the only way. I think here, there are banks in a more favourable position. That was at least at the Swiss franc. Let me just point out now the most important provisions in this legislative proposal, which make this legislative proposal, and this is otherwise in Article 13(6). It states if the conclusion of a housing credit agreement in a foreign currency is offered, foreign currency or currency must be indicated together with an explanation of the effects for consumers, including the rate at which the payment and payment of the credit is made. So, the only thing left to the client in that case that he buys from the bank, so not at the rate in which they're paid, but at the rate the bank sells him the funds, so he puts them in the foreign exchange account. Article 14 and that is important, the minister stressed. Therefore, these 15 days that the bank leaves the user to check and consider before the contract is concluded is the option offered by the bank's most favourable existence on the market of a better option and sub-item 5 which says that within 14 days, the consumer may, however, give up the loan if it considers that it is not favourable. In paragraph 6 of that Article, Article 14 states that if the consumer gives up the contract, he is obliged to pay the credit institution the principal and the agreed interest on the principal from the day of withdrawal of the money until the day of payment of the principal without delay. I mean, what's the principal's payday? Is that the day he pays off the early payment of the loan or is it the day of payment of the one defined in the payment plan? It's not clear to me, it's two different dates, then it's different interest rates. Of course, it is good to say immediately in subparagraph 7 that there is no, the credit institution does not have the right to other charges from consumers other than one-time fees. So he can't charge early payment. But for interest, I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to explain whether this applies to the day of early payment or the day of the total payment, actually according to the payment plan. And one more thing that's important to mention, Article 28 here in the replica was that word. This is the possibility of leaving the loan on the basis of the property that has been placed as a loan insurance instrument. Sub-paragraph 4: "A credit institution of a consumer pawn may say that the transfer of ownership rights over real estate as an instrument of insurance of a residential consumer credit to a credit institution is considered to be a complete fulfillment of all remaining liabilities under the housing credit contract." Whether to live in practice I don't know. Whether banks will be willing to take that risk of changing the value of real estate on the market or will remain on the back of consumers that is the question. But certainly this, even if such a provision was introduced into the law and of course I would personally like what my colleague Bunjac said in his replica if it could be applied retrogradely, would it save many of the debtors he is now, who are now actually brought into this situation to be left without real estate and also that they are still in debt to the bank. In the end, let me conclude. In addition to these improvements that this law adopts by MOST independent lists will support this bill by still waiting, here will be the debate of fellow Alexic after this and the amendments he has submitted and, accordingly, we will make a decision before the vote alone and for the amendments he has submitted will they be accepted or not, or at least part of those amendments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49298	Thank you very much, Mr. Tomislav Sagar. We have a replica on his display. The replica is from Mr Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49299	Thank you very much, Reverend Sagar. Yes, you've made an interesting claim that I'd like to point out. Namely, the trap offered by the currency clause gives you a loan per currency clause of 20,000 euros, for example, but you can't buy 20,000 euros. So you're supposed to get some kind of amount in euro that you can't buy that same amount for then. So we actually have three different courses. One is shopping, the other is medium, the third is selling and the bank pays you those funds, let's say, by the middle rate. And then you automatically actually, instead of getting 20,000 euros, you actually get, I don't know, 19700, 19500, depending on where. Anyway, for the money you've been paid, you can't buy that same amount of euro. On the other hand, it is certainly better to take the kuna loans, and that should be made clear to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49300	Thank you. Replication response, Comrade Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49301	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, that's the fact, but more than that fact, it bothers me that the bank at the time of the issue of these loans, let's say it was in Swiss. She has a legal, I don't really understand it right now, best, but she has a legal obligation where she has a certain deposit in that currency so she can pay off. But it's quite certain that she's paid off as much credit as she doesn't have with her any of that foreign currency, that money. So she's the one who gave the fictitious money. And then she said, we gave you the francs, give us back the francs, and how when you didn't even give me the francs. Of course you're not going to get into those findings about what money's worth, this is what, but pure logic tells us that. That's why it would be respected, but I see that the secretary of state... that you can't put it in law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's just you if you want to get paid in that currency where you're raising your loan. But it can't be because of other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49302	Thank you very much. I'm taking a break by 3:00. After that, Mr Goran Aleksic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, will actually continue. Thank you very much. It's 1:00. 20 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49303	Now we can continue with the clubs. And with regard to the point of discussion, the Honorable Representative Goran Aleksic will now speak on behalf of the House of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49304	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It's triumph day for me today. The day of the triumph is not related to the Law on Housing Consumer Credits, but the law is very important for the Republic of Croatia. Later on, I will link the law to one of the decisions that has been taken today and which is actually a day of triumph for all consumers in the Republic of Croatia who have negotiated loans with the currency clause CHF with Croatian banks and who are, deep down, I am convinced that they are illegal. And now I'm going to connect it all into one whole. So, I'm sorry that we waited this long for the Law on Housing Consumer Credit, because it was to be passed by April of last year at the latest. As a result, the EU Commission has filed a lawsuit in the EU court and, if such a verdict has been reached, Croatia would have to pay some 20,000 euros a day until the date of adoption of that law, its entry into force if such a verdict is passed. However, thanks to this law now, the final draft law that is on the agenda will be passed, the law will enter into force before the verdict and I believe that the European Commission will withdraw its complaint because this action will no longer make any sense afterwards. So we will still avoid paying some fines that would surely be decided on the bill of the Republic of Croatia. I am a law on residential consumer lending, its final proposal to assess it very well. To be excellent, you should accept my amendments. I have ten amendments. If it's accepted, not all 10 don't have to be accepted, but if any of the amendments that I'm about to mention here are going to be evaluated on my part by an excellent grade. So, I'm going to go back a little bit to my amendments now, and to the most important ones, I'm not going to deal with all 10 amendments, but I'm going to explain a few amendments that I consider very important, possibly and that I can put into law without a problem. There are no obstacles to getting them settled. First of all, there are certain provisions on the restriction of interest rates and those provisions apply only to loans contracted after the entry into force of that law. It is also possible and there is no obstacle to these provisions being prescribed for existing loans and that since the date of entry into force of this law on existing loans, the interest rate in residential consumer loans cannot be higher than it is limited by this law that we are going to pass. Therefore, it is possible, there are no obstacles allowed, it is not retroactive, it is applied to future but also to existing loans. The second thing, this law will finally prohibit decided exit fees for early repayment of loans. Those exit fees were illegal and premiums. However, in the Consumer Credit Act, it was prescribed that they should be charged, and before there was this Consumer Credit Act, there were no rules of a financial nature at all, which would talk about exit fees, and therefore the banks took it freely, in order to charge early repayments of credit to the debtors in a large number of contracts even unnecessarily. It doesn't even say what that fee is, it's written on the bank's tariff. A contract provision stating that the bank will charge something in the future under the bank's tariff is illegal, unfair and worthless. Such contractual provisions under the Mandatory Relations Act shall not be incorporated into contracts. However, the banks allowed themselves to do so because it was not decided as to how this fee could be negotiated as it wishes. On the other hand, Art. 1024. The Mandatory Relations Act is clearly prescribed, if the debtor early repayment of the credit, it must repay the remaining principal and possible damage caused by the early repayment of the credit. In order to determine any damage, the bank has to prove damage. The bank cannot pre-contract any damage that has not been established. So the bank would have to go to court and prove that she had some kind of damage. No harm done. If I'm paying off the loan early, there's no harm done. I gave the bank back her money and the bank has that money at its disposal and can do whatever it wants with it. So all the exit fees have been illegally charged before. If that's the case, I've got proof in court practice. At the end of 2014, a debtor sued the HIPO bank, the current Adico bank, for charging him 3% of the exit fee for early repayment of the loan. The contract said that the bank would charge early payments for the exit fee on the bank's tariff. And the debtor is nice, after the bank charged that tariff, sued the bank of the court and first the Municipal Court ruled that such compensation was illegal, that it must be returned to the debtor, along with a tight interest, and the County Court in Vukovar confirmed that judgment because it was in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Relations. Therefore, the Consumer Credit Act in that section which speaks of exit fees is contrary to the Mandatory Relations Act. Unfortunately, no one objected to the Constitutional Court. If he had objected, he would have passed that complaint. If this were to happen today, if such provisions were made, I would, at the Constitutional Court, demand an assessment of the constitutionality of such a provision, an assessment of legality, due to the conflict of two laws. But what's done is done. But then let's go to the cisterns, that exit fee to ban absolutely all the credits that are on board. So, at least it's in the contract, even though it says in the contract that the bank will charge, it can't charge. And he can't charge. And if we prescribe it by this law, the banks won't be allowed to charge for it. Banks can't charge for it anyway, I say they can't charge for it anyway, but they charge for it. And then the debtors still have to go to court. Few who will go to court. You sitting here, too, if I were to get you to go to court, you'd say, no matter what it is, I'm not going to court for that. That's how people react. But we have a duty here, on behalf of our citizens, to work in their interest and to prevent this kind of behavior from the banks. So, I appeal, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to accept my amendment and to prevent the exit fees in future and existing credits. Next thing you know, banks have been charging so far, so-called. the payment for the processing of the credit. It's so-called. An entry fee. Art. 1021. The mandatory relationship law, decided and unequivocally prescribed, when credit is negotiated and credit is paid, the principal and the interest is paid, nothing else. No entry fees, no exit fees. So the Law on Mandatory Relations is completely strict and clear. However, thanks to the CNB above all, I must say that the CNB is an extended arm of Croatian banks. It's where all the former bankers work, and they work for the interests of the banks. And today they're working for the interest of the banks. It's sad, but we have to stop it here. So, the CNB can't work in the interest of banks, and we here have to prevent entry fees from coming. Because what was there is only a court order. It's over, there's nothing we can do about it anymore, but the people, the citizens who have raised such loans, could get those entry fees back in court, along with the corresponding tight interest rates. But only five years ago, because everything else is obsolete. So, I suggest even one compromise solution, maybe the bank has some expenses, even though I don't think it does, because the bank has employees, has references, has employees, has all the living, has personal bankers, so there's all there is to it. There are people who get a normal salary of their own. These people don't have a higher salary because someone was talking about the loan. Some bankers have higher wages, but they're fat bankers, with thick necks, managers. They get millions of bonuses. But through those fees, we pay their bonuses. Does that make sense? So, entry fees, I suggest they limit to 0.1% of the credit advantage, max 1000 kuna that I don't know how much. But, preferably, I propose to the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that this amendment of mine may even alter and make an entry fee as a compensation for the processing of loans, an absolute ban on all future loans. It's not impossible. Next thing you know, there's a rule on that conversion. If the currency grows 20% above the initial rate. I suggest, that banks be forced to be very up-to-date in that sense and that they be instructed to make that conversion at a maximum rate of 20%. Because what can happen? The course rises above 20% above baseline and already the second day is to 30%. It happened with a Swiss guy like that. So what are we going to do about the conversion to 30% above the initial course? No, but banks have to be up-to-date, they have to monitor the situation, and then it won't happen that the course rises above 20%. Next thing I know, I have proposed an amendment to limit the currency clause exclusively to the euro currency clause. Why? We have already heard that there as an EU could be against, the European Commission, the EU court that there could be a lawsuit. No, there couldn't be a lawsuit. Why couldn't there be a lawsuit? Credits are placed on citizens' deposits, Croatian citizens' deposits are in kunas and euro, there are no other currencies and therefore there is no reason for any other currency to be possible in consumer loans. A second currency is possible, but in international loans. Consumers do not raise international loans, international loans are raised by legal persons. I am not asking this to apply to legal persons but exclusively to consumers. Therefore, consumers must be protected from unnecessary currency risk, which has nothing to do with the monetary system of the Republic of Croatia, in order not to be repeated by the Swiss because the euro around how things stand is the same as negotiating a kuna loan, there is no significant difference. And I believe that until Croatia enters the euro zone, the Croatian National Bank will protect the exchange rate against the euro as much as it can and that the fluctuations between the euro and the kuna in the next three, four years until the planned entry into the euro area will not be greater than 5 to 10%, and that is not too dangerous for consumers. I would particularly allow the second currency clause to be negotiated except for the euro if the consumer has foreign currency income that is not the euro. If someone worked in Switzerland and has a pension from Switzerland, office, no problem. Because what actually happened when the banks staged Swiss? They actually placed loans from the euro and kuna deposits, and then, through the off-balance sheet, they converted these deposits into Swiss, it's an accounting method. And through this accounting method, the mother bank has earned from 5 to 7 billion kuna in the last 10 years without a single dime of tax. Unfortunately, this was allowed, but it had to be prevented by consumer contracts because banks burdened consumers in their contracts with derivative work, and consumers had no idea about it. And to connect now why each other's currency clause except the euro must be banned. Today, the EU court has reached a historic verdict in case C 186/16 where in a Romanian dispute where consumers have sued the bank for the Swiss franc currency clause and on the previous issues raised by the EU Court of Justice, it has made a decision that will be very important for both the ruling and the new review of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia. After one such ruling, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia cannot do anything but declare all loans with a currency clause Swiss franc unfair, currency clause Swiss franc unfair. This verdict may be the basis for our arbitration dispute in Washington, and this verdict must be taken and handed over by our government to the arbitration centre of Washington and told them by the gentlemen of the arbitration centre is not responsible for the conduct of this case because the EU court has its practice to show that you have no right to decide on this case. I will read a few details of that verdict from today's press release to the EU court. Therefore, ‘when a financial institution approves a credit in a foreign currency, it must provide the borrower with sufficient information to enable it to make a sound and informed decision’. Furthermore, ‘the service provider must communicate all relevant information to the consumer concerned in order to assess the economic consequences of such a provision on its financial obligations. In this context, the Romanian court asks the Court...the bank's obligation to inform clients of the foreign currency credit-related exchange rate risk. In today’s judgment, the Court found that the disputed contractual provision is part of the main subject-matter of the loan contract so that its dishonesty can be examined in the light of the directive only if it is not clearly and comprehensibly drawn up." Our Supreme Court has decided that it cannot be questioned, contrary to this verdict, so the Constitutional Court ruled that we were right and returned the audit. The Constitutional Court was right. "The consumer must be able to assess, on the basis of accurate and comprehensible criteria, the economic consequences resulting from this. This issue must be examined by the Romanian court in view of all relevant factual elements including the advertising of information made available by the lender as part of the loan contract negotiations. All elements which may have an impact on the scope of its obligation must be communicated to the consumer and based on which it can assess the total cost of its credit. The bank must expose possible changes in the risk rate of taking credit in a foreign currency in a specific currency," which is Swiss he is different from the euro. Finally, in this regard, the Court stresses "the contractual provision must strike an imbalance between parties which is only apparent during the execution of the contract". My people, this verdict opens the door to the futility of all contracts with the Swiss franc currency clause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49305	Thank you very much. We have the first replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49306	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic. So you're here talking about that exit fees being illegal, you're talking about that there's a powerful verdict of both the municipal and the county courts that these fees are not in line with the Law on Mandatory Relations, and we now see that they are still in the law, although only for those loans that have been raised to this day, but they will still be able to charge... fees. And now my question for the Secretary of State for Finance, how can you let something that has been legally convicted as illegal still exist in the Consumer Housing Act? Also, my question is one more thing, if you think business banks have the right to charge those fees. Why charge them HBOR which directly...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49307	My colleague Bunjac, you are replicating fellow Alexic, not the secretary of state, the minister of anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49308	Okay, thank you for the correction. I replicate my colleague Alexic, but it is known that the debate on the whole loan is, I stick to the subject and I want to ask why these exit fees are used illegally and I say in HBOR, so if we are really following some kind of, um, legislative authority, some laws, some justice, I think this exit fee as well as an entry fee should be permanently banned whether or not the credit is concluded before the adoption of this law or after its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49309	Here's a colleague, Alexic. He'll answer something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49310	My colleague Bunjac, I thank you for your questions, I have already said in my statement that this is because the CNB is an extended arm of Croatian banks, and the CNB has had a major impact on the adoption of financial nature laws concerning consumers in the previous period. And that CNB then allowed banks to do this kind of illegal business, however, Vice Governor Frass claims that banks don't have to negotiate the parameters in loans unless they've contracted them before it's enough for the debtors to notify about these parameters, and then that's all right. A former lawyer, a top legal expert, argues that banks do not have to negotiate the parameters in credits for changing interest rates but can voluntarily determine them. And do you know what that means? This means that they can freely determine the price. The price is set to be 5% and will be changed by the decision of the bank, the court ruled by a collective ruling that such a contractual provision is illegal, and Vice Governor Bojan Frass continues to argue that it is legal, and that banks were allowed to voluntarily determine the parameters again with their decisions to change the interest rate. Well, that's terrible. That vice governor living in Sweden would have resigned long ago after someone had seen it, but that's out of the question for us. With us, whoever makes any mistake in public bodies, state bodies, continues to perform their duties as if nothing had happened. Minister Dalic tells me in the hallway as well, so it was not prescribed, so it's normal for banks to change interest rates with their decisions and that's okay for me. She's speaking against a court ruling, the verdict says it's wrong, she says it's okay. So I asked her a representative question, if she believes that the banks that were convicted in the collective court process have negotiated unfair and injure contractual provisions on changes in interest rates, and we will see what will be answered publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49311	Thank you. And the next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49312	A colleague, Alexic, means Croatia, your arguments as well as the situation in consumer loans, and in the case of the temporary payment of loans and fees they have, means you simply do not know how much they actually earn on these fees, you may have information, but I know the information we have repeated here. If this is a paradise for banks, Croatia, on fees outside of consumer loans, residential loans, 4 billion kunas per year are collected from small fees and those fees that are hundreds, I don't even know their number, that's confirmed by former Minister Lalovac and plus when we see now how much on your demands, your amendments are collected annually, so that's the amount and maybe a few percent more than they take on fees and fees. That's what I think there is only in Croatia, and it's mostly all illegal, because someone in advance is told in a speech that the damage has been done, without evidence in court, is illegal, it's ordinary citizens or anyone else can't, so this has been just so far guessing the banks and this is really for the bankers of paradise on earth. Croatia is a paradise on earth in robbing the Croatian people and therefore your actions through the Franak Association prove a lot and essentially confirm this theory that they robbed the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49313	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that HDZ, I'm sorry, the answer to the distinguished representative Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49314	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Bulj, that was because the banks weren't under surveillance, simply the CNB wasn't monitoring the bank's work, not watching it today in the proper way. They agreed on an entry fee, for example. One, two, three, and even four percent, the man who raises the loan doesn't have the money to pay for it, then that fee is deposited in the loan, and then the man except that from that loan he got for the apartment, pays an entry fee of 4%, even pays interest on that part. Well, I mean, where there is it, there really isn't anywhere but here in the east. It's been that way the whole East. Both Poland and the Czech Republic and Croatia and Hungary and Serbia-Montenegro and BiH, but here you see something amazing, but Slovenia is not. In Slovenia, such things have not happened, how is that possible? There are no illegal interest rates in Slovenia, how so? And they had regulations like we did. But they seem to read the Law on Mandatory Relations differently than in Croatia. They seem to have a different National Bank. And many economists with PhDs and similar titles that worked in the interest of banks will interpret that all that banks do is right. To me, they are enemies of the Republic of Croatia. And enemies of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I admire them that they were able and had the courage to talk about legal issues they had no idea and to justify legal issues for economic reasons. And the legal theme says, I repeat Article 1021 again. The law on mandatory relations: "If someone raises a loan he will pay the principal and interest." Done. There's no other cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49315	Thank you. The next club is the HDZ representative club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Dragica Roscic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49316	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the representative of the Ministry of Finance with my associates. So today, we have the Final Proposal for a Law on Housing Consumer Credit, and we have already discussed it in our first reading on 30 June 2017, and at the beginning of this debate, I would like to say that the HDZ Club supports this law. This law came before our benches in the first and second readings, meaning Directive 2014/17. The EU. In it, we are trying to gather all good practice, based on all the unfortunate events and those situations that have led to a large number of consumer housing users in the inability to return it, that everything that has happened in all EU countries, to prevent it from happening in the future. Because yet the consumer who comes to the bank here is a less protected party. And when he takes credit mostly, he doesn't think about any consequences that would happen in the future if the situation doesn't stay the same, he doesn't think about crises, he doesn't think about all the events that can happen on the housing market. So it is very important that all responsibility is not transferred to him and he, by law, tries to, or the most unprotected one in this case, we are trying to protect him. The most important news in this law is I would point out, and there are about six, seven. I would highlight this increased consumer information. I would also point out greater consumer protection in foreign currency lending and a more detailed process of credit assessment has been set. As far as increasing consumer information is concerned, it is important that all credit information is standardised from whatever bank you get the offer. So you'll be able to go from one bank to another and on a standard form you'll have data on the costs of that loan so you can compare them. They won't be, they won't be allowed to look like an ad article where the best that each individual bank has to offer will be highlighted. It is also specified in detail how smit will be printed and printed in letters and in which colour can be used in order not to have those fine letters. Or that this information document wouldn't change its meaning if we only copied it in black and white. As far as the offer is concerned, so every bank has to make that offer that they make, it has to be binding on the bank for at least 15 days. What is important is that within 14 days after the consumer signs the contract he can change his mind. He can say by giving up that loan, because we often get into such a situation that when we put that signature on paper somehow we become more aware of our decisions and reflections and then we start thinking about all the negative things that might happen. I would also point out here that as regards the calculation of the effective interest rate that the mathematical formula is precisely determined and that the total costs that enter into the calculation of the effective interest rate are precisely defined. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we all know if we haven't personally experienced a foreign currency lending problem, we have more consumer protection in foreign currency lending here. It is prescribed that the credit institution is obliged to inform the consumer. Every time the value of the total outstanding amount that the consumer is obliged to pay or regular meals, or annuity is changed by more than 20% precisely for exchange rate changes. On the other hand, the credit institution shall be obliged once during the term of the contract at the request of the consumer at any time of the contractual relationship to enable the conversion of the currency credit in which the credit has been nominated or to which it is linked to the alternative currency, without condition. Therefore, a credit institution must not charge the consumer a fee for that conversion. The terms and conditions of the contract shall include the minimum method of determining the interest rate. In more detail, this law sets out the process of assessing the consumer's creditworthiness. We are also familiar with those loans from RBA cooperatives, and it is clearly prescribed here that only the financial and economic situation of consumers should be guided by credit assessment. So we can't say ok. This consumer may not be able to repay this loan, but he owns a good property, and it's not bad to get it back in exchange for not returning the loan. Therefore, only the financial and economic situation of consumers must be considered and such credit must be in line with this situation. As for the last time in the debate on 30 June, we mentioned this level of expertise, knowledge and staff of the credit institution and credit intermediaries. This defines the level, but also detailing the level of expertise and knowledge of persons by means of a sublegal act adopted by the CNB. That was the question I think of Mr. Lalovec or someone last time at the hearing. Credit intermediaries are also licensed, so they will be able to operate as tied credit intermediaries in a specific and prescribed manner. The Croatian National Bank will issue a credit intermediary based in the Republic of Croatia approval for the provision of credit intermediation services for residential consumer credits, and this authorisation may also include authorisation for the provision of advisory services and shall explicitly prohibit the appointment of representatives of additional services. It also improves protection in the event of payment of the obligation, and here this entry into force was indicated before I think 30th, or 1st July. Here, this wacated legion, which was changed compared to that first reading, is given for 60 days. What is a key difference, some parts of this reading are even more defined. It refers to the calculation of the effective interest rate and how it is calculated. It is prescribed that creditors are obliged to calculate an effective interest rate, i.e. both when advertising and when making general information available. And what was very important was that he had to make personalized information. It's in the shortest lines I'd like to say about this law because most of it we also discussed in the first reading. And here I repeat once again that the HDZ Club will support this law and I think that we are all potentially future beneficiaries of housing credits can be satisfied because we will not meet in those difficulties that the citizens were in before this law was passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49317	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49318	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Roscic, you said at one point, an unfortunate situation. First of all, they were unhappy Croatian citizens because they had a dysfunctional CNB and a dysfunctional state. Because despite the fact that we now prescribe something very detailed, we had legal frameworks before that banks should not have done business as they did business. So we had the Consumer Protection Act. This law clearly and decidedly prescribed that in the case of a credit agreement, all consumers must be explained in detail, clearly, understandably. That it must be warned of all risks, that the interest rate must be transparent. It was all written in the Consumer Protection Act, but it was not as detailed as will now be prescribed by the Law on Housing Consumer Credit. And the Law on Mandatory Relations, which is as old a law as Roman law, has never allowed one party voluntarily. That's what the CNB allowed. The CNB pages prior to the ruling on a collective court process provided information to consumers stating that the bank's administrative decision to change the interest rate was legal and legal. My people, it's like I come to church and tell the priest, there's no God. It's the same for you, it doesn't make any difference at all. So it's a blast in the legal system. Such a thing as the CNB did, it was a crime against the Croatian people, a crime, in the true sense of the word. And because of this crime, we have to change the laws today, we have to detail some things today, and we have to also have those two laws that I have proposed, otherwise our citizens, 100,000 times 3, because they have their families to continue to suffer the illegal business of Croatian banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49319	Thank you. The honourable representative Roscic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49320	Thank you, dear colleague Alexic. So you said and it bothers me very much, that we had an unfortunate state. You know very well that the subject matter of this law is, right, you said unfortunate, that is to say, all the situations with which the rest of the countries are in the EU. So we have one unfortunate continent, obviously, because you know that in delivery, especially around the variable interest rate, that we have had additional protection here in this law, not just the necessary one that prescribes this directive. And you know very well, and this morning in your debate you emphasized it and that you understand it means it is necessary to achieve this greater protection to meet some kind of precondition. It also means the recommendations of the Constitutional Court that you were now referring to. And I repeat again, so I really appreciate your work, but let's not exactly call this country an unhappy country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49321	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49322	Dear colleagues Roscic, the main reason why people are in a situation where they can't repay loans and the only question why they have a currency clause on loans is because the CNB is a currency exchanger, so in Croatia the CNB does not play the role of the kuna emissions. That's why we're both broke and credit crisis, and, of course, where the money is debt, the debt can't be paid back. Because money for interest payments doesn't exist. So when banks lend loans to citizens, they only give capitals. Let's say that if you take a housing loan, you get 120,000 euros, e.g. And you have to return 210, for example. The other 90,000 were never created, they don't exist. And then we come up with a credit crisis, we come up with this debt agony where the whole country is moaning under the burden of irreparable debt, where the debt records are going down, and parallel to that is the sale of state property. There's a sale of private property and the escape of people from our country. Unfortunately, this proposal will not legally solve the problem. And actually HDZ doesn't have the will to solve this issue. Why there is no will, it is obvious that there are interesting structures that HDZ serves at the expense of its own citizens, but yet these same citizens vote for you, so that they actually justify your treatment of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49323	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49324	Thank you, dear colleague Pernar. This law should address the issues that are subject to this law, and it would certainly be good for you to read the suggestions in these afternoons. But well you have the right to conclude that nothing will be resolved, not a single proposal detailedly unread and by the articles of this proposal, but here, given that you are replicating me, I have to answer that, that this law has its own subject that regulates and it would be good... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49325	And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49326	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Roscic, in your presentation of the club's name, you were actually talking about new legislation, which is a calculation of effective interest, more protection in lending, the process of credit ability and the licensing of credit intermediaries, an improvement in consumer protection in the event of difficulties in paying commitments if I got it all right and I hope I did. But you also told your own introduction that this law conducts one standardised and in fact a pattern at EU level, and this form actually contains all relevant information that is related to both the credentials and the credit intermediary, the very content of the credit, the interest rate and the provisional payment. Why does it matter? It is important because the consumer can actually easily compare credit offers, when, for example, a credit institution delivers that offer, i.e., a period of at least 15 days to the consumer. And what my colleague Alexic was saying before you on behalf of his club, and in fact he sent two laws to the parliamentary procedure and I fully understand him when he compared it with Slovenia, said that in Slovenia it is actually impossible to charge the consumer a fee for the temporary or partial payment of the loan, it should be reiterated that this is possible also by this proposal or by the final proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49327	The answer of the respected representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49328	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Babić, that this is exactly one in a series of these sets of laws where we have these standardised patterns, but we also had the Law on Comparability of Comparability of Compensation published by the CNB overall on its site, but this is really very important and there are some major problems that all of them, after they have completed some business and take some service, are still hard, and the vast majority argues that the data and all the conditions were not understandable so that they have to be understandable. And it should never be understood that these laws against banks, those banks that understand it, these banks are not doing well enough in my personal opinion, as well as in the opinion of the majority. So they should embrace this law and indeed the ones they've been doing and so far they're not going to have any newspapers and it won't be hard to comply with these 60 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49329	Thank you. The next is the SDP representative's club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Boris Lalovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49330	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. Today, we have a second reading of the Housing Consumer Credit Act, the SDP Club, as we said in our first reading that we would support this law. In fact, it is a directive to implement the European Directive into Croatian legislation and then perhaps immediately to this final debate whether the banks will be ready or not to implement this law. Not that they are ready but they are already, and they are operating means all the banks that are on the Croatian market are abroad, they are already applying this directive. So I think that there will be no implementation problems, since they in their markets, means Austria's markets, and we know that Italy is coming from these two countries, we have over 80% of that banking capital, but in their countries they have these directives, and they should adapt very quickly. What I regret was that while this directive was in force and other directives concerning their business in their countries, in Austria, Italy, Germany, they had a completely different business policy in Croatia. So here they were achieving certain things that we were doing all the time and saying some extra profits, extra profits, and in their countries they had a very low base level and it's very simple to look at. If you take any report from the business banks and then you will see where they are spread out, how they are spread out, so they have a queen in Italy or Austria and then you will see how they are allocated and how much profit they have, then you see Croatia, BiH, Serbia, Bulgaria, and you will see how much of the entire bank's business comes from those markets, and how much they come from their countries of origin. So, anyway, we accept this delay, I hope there will be no lawsuits and that this part will be rejected in a manner that has not been implemented in time, that in that part of the business will certainly be standardised. In relation to the first reading, we have said quite a lot that this is certainly an improvement, it brings much more information to consumers and much more particularly in the calculation of effective interest rates and in particular the ban on the introduction of some new fees is true here, we have recently discussed this one law where gross fees, fees fees and all these certain costs are 4.5 billion kuna net 3 billion kuna and that this is a very high amount, so I certainly welcome the Minister's decision that in this law in the second part of the reading there is no so-called. exit fees for early ransom. And what the esteemed colleague Alexic said, I actually think there's room and there's a limit to those entry fees, to limit them to a certain amount, or I don't know a thousand kunas. He was mentioning somewhere 0.1% of the value of the loan or the maximum thousand kuna since we know it's not about any special cost of banks at the time of approval. The second thing is when certain estimates of the value of real estate are done, especially in this part of the charge, it is a special cost for their intermediaries or those agencies, but we consider that this cost of processing certain loans is certainly space, which we saw recently when we were talking about fees in general. In addition to the fact that we welcome the suspension of the compensation for early or... the fulfilment of the obligation under the housing credit agreement, it was also added in Article 12 that the report in the form of a payment plan should also include calculations of the effective interest rate and with the credit intermediary that they are also obliged to calculate an effective interest rate. It seems to me that the last time a colleague Alexic spoke about the calculation, the calculation of whether the English, French or German methods said that it said there that the HNB in its regulations would define that it was an English method and that it was not put in that part of this section here but that the additional acts of the regulator would influence it to simplify, even and be more prone to consumers. And here I don't have any additional specific proposals for this directive, we'll see in their implementation, but I think we should continue to think about today that most of the clubs around these laws as they were this morning was the Law on Revision, the Law on Consumers and we find one agreement, especially knowing that these are very important and important topics for Croatian citizens that they expect from this House that in this part of the House we are all together and that we try each of our parts to complete, build up, so I'm glad that you have some arguments and that we can see in some other amendments to do so, if there is room, and we have seen that there is no room for much more courage to adopt these things, but I think it's already matured, as it has been said here, that European courts are also assessing in favour of consumers. It became a certain news story 4, 5 years ago, but I have a feeling that today it has already become a standard that the whole story has been turned not only because of the crisis that took place in 2008 and the role of the entire responsibilities of the banking sector for a single social benefit or for an impact on the crisis, but certainly especially if we take into account and last time I was here, and I was saying that there are about 50 billion kunas of housing credits in Croatia. If you see it as a total asset, the assets of the banking sector mean assets with which they have about 400 billion kuna. Just so you know that our GDP is somewhere around 350, 360 billion, so bankers have a larger activity than the total amount of what the Croatian economy creates and products or services that we create in one year. So the bankers have their assets bigger than the total Croatian economy. And then we ask if there is room in this context to find, I would not say that these are certain special exits to meet but only to be fair and unique on the market, as they do in their countries, how they apply these directives in their countries, to apply them there on the single European market because we are now on the single European market and in this context certainly additional surveillance and probably some, if we were to supplement these laws if we see it become again, that it is going in another direction that it is certainly limiting it. What's important is to say, and it certainly has an impact and we know that it can't affect this law that we can't change, we talked about blocked citizens, we talked about when we changed the Law on Oversight and when we changed some other laws, I appeal once again if the government finds any additional means or additional legal opportunities, that it detachs that knot because we find about 41 billion kunas of blocked citizens and that there is certainly a few percentages of GDP. If you tried that part, that one proud node, which is unfortunately one longer number of years, is very difficult to resolve, that you certainly have several percentages of GDP because all these people who are now in the gray zone, will not pay taxes simply because their accounts are blocked, etc., that the state can find a certain interest in helping these citizens, to start from these blockades, especially because both last time and the Ministry of Finance allowed banks to write off those debts. I'm saying, I know we can't handle it with this law, but what's noticeable on the market today, that's what we've been saying for the last time, about 20 to 30 billion kunas of debt reselling. So the banks are now more clean, my balance sheets, I'm talking to people who are in this sector, so all the banks are absolutely starting to clean up your balance sheets so that today you can find 20 to 30% of that value on the market. Now the question is why they're going to resell it, why don't they give it to the one who's actually in that apartment that's in a particular problem, so I think after we've regulated that area, this is for some future that we have to take care of how we solve the existing because we see that part still not only the market can't solve. That's what it is, if only the market can solve that 41 billion kuna, we can see it can't. It means that banks, nor can charge for it, start to resell, come to third and fourths, I think that both the Government and the Croatian Parliament will have to react again in that segment, already see how, because if we speak more than 300 thousand of our Croatian citizens who are still in the gray zone today, who are not able to perform their business regularly, and that they will also affect GDP, that they will also affect the overall economic picture. And recently, even in the CNB bulletin, you saw a report that, after a long time, I must say here publicly, that the CNB after a long time confirmed in its report that the conversion was well done, that the conversion was needed, that the conversion had stabilised the banking sector further, that it had had a positive impact on GDP, that it had a positive impact on the Croatian economy, only I regret that they unfortunately did not say so at the time. But it doesn't matter, we're here to keep working, that we've shown that it can be done, and that's why I say, if the government has any new proposals on how to solve these 41 billion, you'll have a partner in us because we think it's important for Croatia, and we're not going to be sure about that, because that's what if you do something together, just like you did when we were supposed to be doing the conversion in the Swiss franc, which I think it was correct that we brought this law together, and there's no liquefaction between us or you, we brought it together, it's very important to me. Also, if you have these decisions, we will support you in this work, because I assure you that we will have a positive impact on the Croatian economy and that this will be seen in further economic growth, then I hope that all these measures that unfortunately go along with demographic policies, that unfortunately and that part, we will start to stop together because all of these laws if we do not, if we do not work together on them, and hardly if we do not see their impact on our citizens, if we are making positive laws, they are leaving, so we have not touched what they really do, and we are pushing them. So I support another piece of the law just as we supported this morning, and certainly you will have a partner in us if we find this solution and for this 41 billion blocked citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49331	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that HNS on behalf of which they will speak...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49332	.../Intruder Alexic: I had a replica./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49333	...counsel, please? You had a replica? I didn't see it. Go ahead, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49334	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lalovac, you compared the situation in the euro zone and in the Republic of Croatia. So we have recently been able to read the information that the Croatian economy is among the 10 least risky economies in the world at this time. Banks have always escaped that interest rates in Croatia are high because of the country's risk. There is no risk, and it was also a lie because loans are based on citizens' deposits, and since loans are based on citizens' deposits then the country's risk with such loans has nothing to do with it. What I wanted to say in a German housing loan please be quieter there, in one Germany housing loan is given at an interest rate of 1 to 1 and a half percent. Consumer loans 2 and a half to 4.5%. In Croatia loans that are illegally agreed with variable interest rates are today interest rates 4, 5 and 6%. In other words, banks in the Republic of Croatia earn from the same banks in the euro zone 300% higher at interest rates. I'm sorry if it's normal for countries that have developed, where the standard of citizens is better, where it's getting better, to make money, in these countries where it's getting worse and worse, let's say 300% more at the poor. We're poor compared to those over there. And we're the ones who can change that, us. And we're responsible for the bank's behavior. It's not the banks, it's our fault. If we're not going to pass the law for the initial fixed interest margins and if we're not going to pay people back interest, then it's our fault and it's not the banks and keep that in mind. Be responsible, all of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49335	The answer to the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yes, my colleague Alexic has been this mantra for a long time as it relates to the risk of the state, as it is because of the deficits, how high the interest rates are, etc., how bad our ratings are. Here I am today asking all these rating agencies, never a better deficit. So we don't have it, we're even in a surplus. The economy is growing 3.4%, we have economic growth, all certain macroeconomic indicators are stabilised. How we're not saying now that this part of interest is going to fall so fast that of 2.3% in that part. So there are always certain mantras that they play in public, and what you said and what is finally both in conversation and with the Croatian National Bank to place these deposits is, that is, from the deposits that we know today, here we have recently been to deposits on kunas, you can't get a single percent. Zero five to one percent, and from the same deposit they make five to six percent. And it doesn't take anybody to think that we're saying something against them, so there's no special hysteria. Literally take their annual reports to any bank, when you see where they're spread, where you see how much they make profits and certain margins. So we have nothing against it, but we don't want them to do it in Croatia anymore. Here I think we have a right to say that in this House of Highs. Yeah, you're doing it somewhere else. With us, I think we have one critical mass both in the Parliament and in the Government, that we can finally say that their business will still be stable. You know what they said about how it would affect their franc, and you saw their business in 2016. What 8, 9 billion nets to get. Watch out for 9 billion net profits in a year, one year after the conversion of the Swiss franc. Now someone has to explain to me 8 to 9 billion kuna net you got to earn somewhere on the market, and the economy hasn't grown that much yet. Our economy has grown, our entire economy has just grown two to three percent, and they're making 8.9 billion. So we're not against them, but we want them to just be more for the benefit of the citizens. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49337	Now we're going to an individual debate. The following will be spoken by individual respected representative Miro Bulj. Do you want to discuss it or not? You're giving up, okay. Then the next individual debate is the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjca, please. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The next is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49338	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here I am, actually joining the pleasure that this law will very much help all of us, i.e. consumers, and primarily those who will raise housing loans. What I must point out is that at EU level, when the contract directive was drawn up, 59% of citizens at the time had difficulties in understanding mortgage loans and associated risks, and also 38% of EU citizens felt that it was difficult and very difficult to compare the offers they received from their banks. So that's something we have to say that everywhere in Europe not only was really problematic in Croatia, and no less problems had these consumers, with the difference between us and them being certainly what was mentioned more times is an interest rate that is significantly greater than it is in other parts of the EU. This Contracts Directive has actually made it possible and encouraged that what has already been said is better informed by consumers in the conclusion of the contract itself, although we must say that each of us also had to be more careful in reading and previous contracts. Because sometimes it is out of great desire to solve our problems at times even though the public notary reads to us the provisions of a particular contract that are often ignored by all these provisions and goes beyond that as something that is not to be heard, and in fact it was often necessary to listen well because the risks were already in place. What the directive has yet adopted is a detailed assessment of the creditworthiness, a single calculation of the effective interest rate, etc. What I would also like to say is that in the Republic of Croatia, 30.6.2017, what my colleague Lalovac mentioned was 325000 citizens who were under blockades. And that was over 42 billion kuna. From that point of view, we must say that according to CNB, the share of bad loans granted to the population, compared to the total amount of credit, was over 10. 10% pardon. So it's visible that the nearly 3.7 billion kuna is actually what all citizens who were unable to repay were actually a great burden. In our law on the draft law, Art. 14 paragraph 5 speaks of how a bank that has granted a housing loan, which is a great advantage, therefore, each of the clients may, within 14 days of the conclusion of the loan agreement, give up the loan, which is very significant, because in any case, it can be considered and well delayed, whether someone is able or not to present the credit burden they want to take. Also, in that case, since then I have been a user, or a client does not have to specify a reason. In the case of what we have already mentioned, that earlier credit is paid, the bank will not be able to charge the exit fee. We know that these were once very significant amounts and that they were once given up at all since they were significant amounts. What is more important is that, in this way, other than consumers, it is very important for consumers, that protection will also be strengthened from exchange rate differences. And what we've already said, a legal proposal to leave that 15-day deadline for comparing loans on the market, enable and compare what it means to him in relation to the course itself. In the case of a loan with a currency clause, indeed this possibility and this that the bank must inform the consumer of a change when that exchange gap is greater than 20%, it is in any case significant, because so much will react much faster, but this does not free us, any of us who use these services, from following the same changes that occur in the exchange system. It's very important, namely everything that's happened on the world market and what we've experienced, or our citizens who've been in debt in Swiss, but it's still less likely that in this way and it would have been good if this clause had been before, so then this impact of changing the height of the Swiss franc would not have put individual users at risk, and this conversion of the credit that is now, I think over 96.97% of the credit in Swiss is already converted into other currencies, and that actually reduced the risk that was present. Clients taking residential loans are also important that this clause walk away, therefore clauses that will enable the settlement of the complete loan to occur in a way that covers it with value and transfer of real estate, and Article 18. It is defined and very important to say that it brings a continuous assessment of the consumer's creditworthiness. This will therefore allow for the possibility and exposure of banks to poor loans to be reduced in one way and for the protection of debtors from day-to-day borrowing. I must also say that this law actually applies after it has been brought to life, so it does not apply to those contracts that have been concluded before, so from the day of entry into force. And this one note, it is known that banks have sold a large part of the claim, more than 33.7 billion kuna, and there are among other things residential loans and of this total mass of claims sold is actually about 10 billion citizens' loans and everything else is loans to the economy. Here I hope that this law will greatly improve the normative conditions and certainly make it much more favourable for citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49339	Thank you. We have several replicas on your exhibit. First, he's the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49340	Dear colleague Peric. I tried to point out to your colleague, Dear Roscic, what caused the problem. I explained to her that the problem of the CNB Central Bank is the exchange rate, that that's why we have the currency clause on the theft because the CNB doesn't do the Kunian money emissions. I tried to explain to her that for this reason because money is debt and only comes as a loan and I owe by my nature in total indemnity because money for interest payments does not exist. But instead of trying to understand what I'm telling her she was talking to me... /Speakers speak at the same time./... Mr. Rainer, we're not gonna fight here, so don't bother me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49341	We're not going to fight. I'm just warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49342	Excuse me. You're taking the time to have this argument with you. What's all this?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49343	You can't argue with me, I'm warning you just that you have to answer to your colleague. I'll extend your time for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49344	Please don't interrupt me anymore because I didn't interrupt or disturb you while you were talking. And the whole time you're leading, I'm not getting into your word. I didn't get into your word, Mr. Rainer, please respect that. Thank you. So colleague Roscic instead of understanding my lesson she went to me to soak as if I didn't understand what the bill was. I understand what the bill is, but this bill deals with the consequences, and not the cause of the problem, and this law will not solve the problem of bad loans, and thus neither will the consumer, it will be a little tempered. And that's why I would like to ask my colleague, another HDZ colleague who was now speaking to Peric Grozdan, does she realize that these are all palitarian measures and that she will not solve the problem of the country's credit crisis and the problem of mass blockades of citizens and businesses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49345	Here's a response from the distinguished representative Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49346	I didn't say this would solve the problems, I just made facts. We are here to find solutions or government that will propose certain solutions. And you need to know that every country has its own national bank or central bank, because you say it's just a currency exchange, so no one makes us as citizens to save in euro, and most 80% of the citizens save. So if you're saving in kunas, then we have to trust our own coin, if we don't have it, then we're going to want that coin to be something else. But in any case, money is a commodity like any other, it has its own price, so we all have to respect that market and normally on that market to know and behave. So I don't see any problem with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49347	The next is a replica of the respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49348	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Peric. True, we're improving regulation now, it's all great, but I have to do it one more time and before we had a regulation that forbidded banks from doing what they were doing. So they should never have done everything they've done to date and what they're still doing today. They still don't respect the collective verdict. The collective verdict says that the agreed variable interest rate by the bank's decision is unfair, that it is harmless and that banks are no longer allowed to behave that way. They're still acting that way. So the lack of institutions is obvious here. Nor does the CNB prevent banks from respecting the verdict, nor does the state, no one does so, so only by law can it be prevented. And I'm going to say again, what I've already said, so it wasn't an unfortunate situation, they were unhappy citizens because the CNB was dysfunctional because the state was dysfunctional, and today, in a particular segment, it's dysfunctional, and that's why I have to finally change it, and that responsibility is on us and on nobody else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49349	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49350	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Peric. I would just like to fill in a little bit of what you said, and it also seems extremely significant to me, and regarding Article 14, you have stated paragraph 5, which says that the consumer has the right to terminate the contract within 14 days of the conclusion of the contract, to give up the loan. And that's very good because I'm an item four that says that there are 15 days to check that comparison with other banks wouldn't be anything without this item because really what we're hoping for and the Secretary of State has arrived is the minister, we hope these... will live in practice. Now I'm going to tell you an example, it really happened I don't remember the amount anymore, but one man was taking credit in one business bank, after some time paying off he came by playing the case into another business bank, there he was looking for some other credit so they told him what he had to do with his duties, he showed this recit. They said so wait a minute it's too much so we'll give you much better terms and they gave it to him. He went back to his home bank and said listen people gave me and you know what they told him at the home bank, but wait, we'll give you even more favourable. That's why it's important this, not only in the sense that the credit user makes a decision but that healthy competition, that when he comes in with the paper and says look, I signed the contract they say no, we'll still give you a better contract. I think it's on that side, and if it comes into practice, then these provisions will be of full importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49351	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49352	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, that each bank has space in its normative acts has a space for ranges when they can raise or reduce any margin, either interest rate. Therefore, it is good competition, and this way can really be achieved much better. And thank you for mentioning that one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49353	Thank you very much. And now the closing word on behalf of the Living Walls and the SNAGA Club has a distinguished representative, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49354	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try to point out in my presentations two central problems related to the credit crisis itself and the lack of money. I explained that the cause of the currency clause in general and that the loans are in foreign currencies, because the CNB is the exchange rate and the second part of the problem means that the money is a debt, and thus the loans are invaluable because the interest money has never been created. If money is created only in the form of a loan, people will all get the principal credit and they will have to return all the principals plus interest, so they will have to pay back, hypothetically take 50 thousand euros, they must pay back 100 grand, so they will have to pay back twice as much and they won't be able to. And what happened? I see the HDZ doesn't understand what I'm saying, and I'm going to set an example. So Mrs Grozdana Peric says that the CNB is supposed to be because people are saving in euro. 80% savings, so that's why it's like that. However, the lady forgets that during the Yugoslav era people also saved in foreign currency, had foreign savings. However, the role of the Central Bank of Yugoslavia was not a currency exchanger was the real central bank that broadcast the domestic currency or dinar. So, in which currency of people's damages is completely irrelevant, i.e. unrelated to the question of which currency the loans are in. And what Mrs. Peric is also trying to say, and probably by my guess of ignorance, is next. The banking system always shows us that the loans come from savings, literally said that I put my money on savings, on my own account, then the bank out of my money gives credit, so hopefully if the deposits are in foreign currency, they have to be loans. But the truth is the other way around. Deposits come from credit, they knew the moment someone took credit, money was created, money was transferred to someone's account, and then it became a deposit. So, otherwise the logical error is not only media-exposed, it is even in monetary policy textbooks when explaining the process of multiplication of money, i.e. creating imaginary deposits and issuing loans based on the same imaginary money, it is also an example that loans come from deposits although it means the opposite. Deposits always come from credit. So I see that the ruling party actually doesn't understand, i.e. certain representatives such as Grozdana Peric do not understand the process of making money themselves, they do not understand why the role of the Central Bank is a currency exchange office or that it has nothing to do with what they think it has to do with why it has such a role. And unfortunately, the legal solution they offer is therefore partial, it will not solve the problems. They are confident that they will solve but you will see that they will not, that the number of blocked citizens will remain the same, that their debt will grow over time as the debt of the state. After all, what kind of foreign currency is this? So even the state itself means that not only can citizens not essentially reach domestic currency but the state itself is in debt in foreign currency, which means that the CNB does not have the role of a state bank. This should be a state-funded bank because in all countries of the world, except unfortunately in the EU, the role of the Central Bank is state funding. Well, it's inconceivable that I don't know, the Chinese state borrows money on the foreign market when it has its own central bank, not only China, and other countries, but unfortunately it's normal for us and it's responsible, unfortunately, for HDZ when it changed in '94. The role of the CNB in the exchange office and the co-responsibility of the SDP which, when in power, did not go to change monetary policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49355	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49356	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Pernar, I just need to teach you a little bit now. You keep saying something that just doesn't hold water. So you said someone gets to say let's let's get the credit 100 and then give back 200. No, he doesn't return 200. He returns 100, and the pay 100 is the goods. So when you get the goods, you have to pay for the goods. So you're paying back 100, and you're paying another 100 because credit if it's an example. At 30 years, he has some interest 5%, 6%, on that interest 5.6% you have to pay the price, that price over 30 years is huge, that's a normal thing. You said that credit is shared from credit, that money doesn't actually exist. There is, these are citizens' deposits. Citizens have 150 billion kunas in banks, and these deposits serve as credit coverage and what's created on loans is money, credits are made money, but that's added value, that's what I said, on interest, interest is the price. Every commodity has a price. You buy the suit, you have to pay. You buy a car, you have to pay for it. Whatever you buy, you have to pay, so that's the price. This price we pay, shared by owners, it does not remain in Croatia, it is shared by owners, but part of that price they invest in some new jobs, of course. So, the scam of banks is not about what you're talking about, but about bank fraud is about the collection of illegal fees, the collection of illegal interest, the collection of illegal exit interest, in derivative transactions where they make through derivative jobs for banks mothers a bunch of difference rates where they don't charge a cent of taxes, etc., etc. So you're not right at all about your exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49357	The answer to the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49358	Dear fellow Alexic, first of all, let's look at the first part, yes, it's normal for money to have its own price if it comes to private persons. However, the very fact that the interest payment money was not created together with the principal, and that all the money that was created was created exclusively through the loan gives you more than clear knowledge that the loans will not be possible to repay. Because I'm saying that money for interest payments doesn't exist. As for the second part of your thesis, unfortunately, I suggest you ask two monetary experts in Croatia who understand monetary policy. There is one colleague, Ivan Lovrinović, who was the Dean of the Faculty of Economics, and the other is Professor Jakovljevic, also from the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb and ask them a simple question, whether deposits come from loans as I claim or loans come from deposits. That question that seems quite abstract to you, and which you claim contrary to me, unfortunately, the waist will explain to you that you are in error. And every one of us thinks he's the smartest guy in the world. And that's how I used to think credits came from saving. It's only when you take it, that means the book on monetary policy that you'll realize that since all the money is created as a loan, then the loans come into deposits, not the other way around. There's this trap, which, unfortunately, is not understood by any of you or by any of your HDZ colleagues. And because of that trap, our country and people and businesses are in untold debt. In the end, you see for yourself and that the great subjects fail and the state will be destroyed along with them if this policy continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49359	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Minister Zdravko Maric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, just a short sentence. Thanks for the debate. As is usually the case, we will consider all the amendments, i.e. the proposed amendments, and of course we will be made manifest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49361	Thank you. And thanks to you, you have a replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49362	Dear fellow Maric, here I am, please, you are the Minister of Finance, you are a trained person. Please answer one simple question to the Croatian public, and that is whether loans are made from deposits or deposits come from loans? That seems so irrelevant, but I'm asking you to give a direct answer to that question and I hope you'll satisfy that request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49363	The Honorable Minister Maric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49364	Thank you very much, counsel. I would still point this question at one of your colleagues. He is not currently here, he is a professor of monetary and credit policies at the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb. Among other things, he taught me, so perhaps the best thing to do is ask Professor Lovrinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49365	Thank you very much. With that, we would conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49366	We're going to vote now. First is the Final Proposal for a Law on Housing Consumer Credit, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 120. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that we have unanimously decided to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the applicant's representative to explain the first amendment to the Government. We have Željko Tufekčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, asking him to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49367	The President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives therefore the first amendment of the Government refers to Article 14(4), which the Government proposes to amend by its amendment in a way that reads: "The credit institution must not charge the consumer a fee for processing and/or approval of a residential consumer loan. All other charges charged by the credit institution in respect of the housing credit contract shall not exceed the actual cost incurred in the credit institution and for which the fee is charged. In order to conclude a contract on a residential consumer credit, a credit institution must not impose new fees or increase the fees that existed at the time of the conclusion of a housing credit agreement." Therefore, since the final proposal for a law on residential consumer lending has already suspended the early payment of credit, or credit institutions will no longer be able to charge consumers the early payment both in part and in full the fulfilment of their obligation under the housing credit agreement by respecting the held debate here in the Assembly in the context of the second reading conducted here. Therefore, the debate was about the need for entry fees and the possibility of their abolition or restriction. This amendment proposes that the full suspension of the entry fee, i.e. the processing and/or approval of a residential consumer credit, be abolished. It is also proposed that all other fees paid by credit institutions in connection with a housing credit contract should not be greater than the actual cost incurred in a credit institution and for which the fee is charged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49368	I'm opening a debate on the first amendment to the government. In accordance with Article 199(2), only representatives of the representatives of the clubs of the representatives may participate in the debate. Any of the representatives' clubs report? If not, I will conclude the debate and put the first amendment of the government to the vote. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 82 votes to accept the first amendment of the government, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Now, before we move on to a statement on the second amendment of the Honored Lady and gentlemen, it is our honor to welcome the delegation of the Soviet Parliament of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, together with its Excellency, the Ambassador of Saudi Arabia to the Republic of Croatia. The delegation of Saudi Arabia is located in a four-day official visit to the Republic of Croatia, and the host of this visit is the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the Croatian-Soudian group of friendships that operates within the Croatian Parliament, so please welcome our guests. I now ask the motionary's representative to explain the second amendment to the Government. [[Applause.]] I'm asking the Secretary of State to do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49369	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, the second amendment is closely linked to the fact that the first few years earlier is explained, and it is that the law infringing provisions builds on the bank's liability in the event of a payment just before a reasoned initial, i.e. an entry fee. The second one is, therefore, Article 41(1) of point 44 of the new proposal, which reads: ‘The consumer shall charge a fee for the processing and/or approval of the credit or if he charges a second fee greater than the actual cost incurred in the credit institution for which the fee is charged. Or if, after the conclusion of a contract on a residential consumer credit, new benefits or increases the fees that existed at the time of the conclusion of a housing credit agreement, which is contrary to Article 17(4) of this Act." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49370	So again if someone wants to participate only representatives of the club representatives. If not, I'll conclude the debate and put the second amendment of the government to the vote. Please, let's vote. I also find that this amendment has received the necessary majority unanimously 78 votes in favour and that it becomes an integral part of the final draft law. We are now going to vote on the other amendments tabled by the Committee on Legislatives and MP Goran Aleksic. I would like a representative of the motionary, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Željko Tufekčić, to be shown about the amendments submitted. The first amendment is one to the other. The first is the amendment of representative Goran Aleksic. This is the first amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49371	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the amendment to Article 2 is not accepted since this law already provides for the application of the provisions of the laws governing the protection of consumers and of the law governing the business of credit institutions. However, the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act which are subject to this Act will not apply to residential consumer loans which have been excluded from the conflict between this Act and the Consumer Credit Act, given that this law fully regulates the consumer's position in the conclusion and the duration of the residence and consumer lending contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49372	Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49373	I accept the argument and I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49374	Thank you. We are now going to the second amendment to article 3 of the same representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49375	The amendment is not accepted. Amendments to Article 3(1) which propose an extension of the consumer definition are not accepted. This law defines the consumer as a natural person acting outside the business or free profession in the activities covered by this law. The definition is therefore in line with the Consumer Credit Act, but also with other laws. The above mentioned point 12 of the preamble to the directive, which is called by MP Alexic, is only an explanation of the concept, and not its addition. These consumer definitions need to be maintained consistently through the entire legal framework of the Republic of Croatia. It is also not acceptable to amend Article 2(2) 27 that loans under this law should be concluded only with the euro or kuna currency clause. In connection with the proposal, it is important to highlight Article 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, resulting in the prohibition of all restrictions on the movement of capital and in the payment programme between Member States and between Member States and third countries. In its 2011 opinion on the Hungarian draft law, the European Central Bank warned of possible discrepancies with that article. Therefore, the adoption of this provision could result in the initiation of proceedings before the EU court against the Republic of Croatia. However, this law really introduces a number of mechanisms for consumer protection, such as pre-contractual information, personalised information, for secondary contracts, regular consumer notification when the value of the total outstanding amount, which the consumer is obliged to pay or regular meals or, the urgency of the change by more than 20% of their values, the conversion of credit at any time of the contract, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49376	Apparition of Representative Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49377	I do not accept your argument, first because in the preamble it is clearly prescribed who is meant when it comes to consumers. When we talk about people who carry out their own activities, they with their OIB, their OIB is on contracts, not some legal person's OIB. Therefore, they correspond with their property for what they negotiate. And the other thing about this currency clause and the restrictions on the currency clause of the euro, nobody would sue us and it wouldn't be limiting the flow of capital because that capital of another kind doesn't exist. In our banks, only the euro and kuna are the only capital that exists. On the contrary, if this is not limited, we will allow the abuse of capital flow, such as banks used this abuse when they negotiated the Swiss franc currency clause, and we see that the EU court has an opinion that is quite contrary to your reasoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49378	You're looking for a vote, I guess. Then I ask you to join the vote. [[I'm looking for a vote, of course.]] The Government does not accept that amendment. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. We move to Amendment 3. It is an amendment to Article 4. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49379	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, amendments are not accepted because bonuses are, respectively, benefits affecting the total cost of credit to consumers already covered by this law. It must contain a housing credit contract if the benefits affecting the total cost of credit to the consumer are applicable. So, Art. 14. paragraph 11(a) is replaced by the following: And if the credit institution offers to negotiate a variable interest rate, it is obliged to present clearly and unequivocally to the consumer elements of the applicable interest rate prior to the conclusion of a housing credit agreement. Warn him of all risks and variables, and clearly and unequivocally contract on a residential consumer loan to contract variable elements, on the basis of which variable interest rates are calculated, including benefits affecting the total cost of credit to the consumer and Article 17. Article 2 of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49380	A colleague of Alexic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49381	I don't accept the argument, it's just about harmonising with the preamble of the directive, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49382	Let us approach the vote of this amendment which the Government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. So let's move on to an amendment 4 statement to Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49383	Therefore, amendments to Article 10 are not accepted because bonuses, i.e. benefits affecting the total costs already covered by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49384	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49385	I don't accept the argument, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49386	Let's approach the vote, about an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. So we move to Amendment 5, Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49387	The amendment is not accepted. The amendments in the section relating to Article 13 are therefore not accepted. Points 6 and 9 as the explanations of the effect of the conclusion of the credit with the currency clause and the warnings on the risks arising from the loan are governed by Annex 2 Directly on housing credit contracts, which are prescribed by the use of a European standardised information form, which will be transposed by the sublaw, which will bring the CNB to explain to the consumer the main characteristics of the credit, including the value and currency, and the potential risks of links to the borrowing rate. Amendments in the section relating to Article 13 shall not be accepted. point 7 is replaced by the following: Amendments in the section relating to Article 13 shall not be accepted. point 8 is replaced by the following: Article 2 of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49388	A colleague of Alexic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49389	I do not accept the argument, especially as regards point 7 because, because the law allows the contract of anunities to be equal or variable anuity, does not mean that it obliges the bank to offer it. Therefore, it is a great pity that we will not order banks to offer loans and to pay in equal and variable wars. Because the payment in the variable wars is ultimately cheaper for the debtor and, if it is creditworthy, it must be allowed to repay it in such a way. It is a shame that we did not order banks to negotiate loans in such a way, i.e. to make offers before the loan agreement itself, so I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49390	Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. We move on to Amendment 6 to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49391	The government doesn't accept it. Therefore, an amendment to Article 17 which proposes limiting the amount of the entry fee charged by credit institutions is not accepted. In its amendment, the government proposed a complete ban on charging entry fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49392	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49393	I thank the government for accepting my amendment and actually improving it, so I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49394	Thank you. We move to Amendment 7 to Article 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49395	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the proposal that the conversion should not be carried out at a rate greater than 20% compared to the initial is not in line with the Housing Credit Contracts Directive, which is prescribed for Member States, ensures that the rate used for conversion is the market rate valid on the day of submission of the request for conversion unless the credit agreement is otherwise specified.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49396	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49397	I don't accept the explanation. The directive is not something that must be so, it can be completed and it can be even better protected by consumers, and consumer protection is needed in case another currency clause is negotiated other than the euro, so that what happened with the Swiss franc does not happen because it is possible to increase overnight the rate that was 20% higher to a 30% higher rate. We saw that it happened with the Swiss franc at the beginning of 2015 when he from the amount of 6.3 kuna for one franc grew to as much as eight kuna for one franc overnight. So it must be prevented that this cannot happen in the event of an exotic currency being contracted which is still permitted, and I have demanded that it be banned. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49398	Please vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We move on to Amendment 8 to Article 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49399	The amendment is not accepted. The maximum interest rate on residential consumer loans has already been regulated by the Consumer Credit Act. Therefore, the article in question is not a transfer of legal gain but has already been taken over by the Consumer Credit Act and is therefore already applicable to existing contracts and does not need to prescribe retroactive application.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49400	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49401	I do not know what time it is to repeat that it is not a retroactive application because if something applies from the date of entry into force of the law on ongoing contracts, which are not yet completed in the opinion of the Constitutional Court in the assessment of the constitutionality of the conversion of CHF credit, it is clear that it is not retroactive. I therefore request a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49402	Please vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We move to Amendment 9 to Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49403	The amendment is not accepted. Since the Housing Credit Contracts Directive explicitly prohibits retroactive application, it is not possible to prescribe that the provisions of this Act in connection with early repayment of relations and on existing credit agreements.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49404	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49405	I don't know why you keep saying that retroactive is something that isn't retroactive. The Constitutional Court has made it clear when it assessed the constitutionality of the conversion of CHF loans to be so-called so-called. Quasi retroactiveity, not retroactivity, and that's why he didn't just crash the CHF loan conversion. So it's not retroactive and we can do it and plus additional financial ones on consumer lending and on credit institutions are in collegiate with the Mandatory Relations Act where Article 1024 clearly and loudly states "the principal is paid off at the early repayment of credit and if damage has been done to the believer". We have a ruling by the County Court of Vukovar, a powerful verdict against the Adico Bank of 2014 in which the County Court of Vukovar ordered the payment of the exit fee to be returned to the debtor plus the tightening interest. And he wrote further that the bank's profits had not been damaged, the damage had to be proved, that the bank would require damage she would have had to sue and claim damage and prove that she had damage. So it is a great shame that we are afraid of so many banks and that we are not like the EU and the EU Court of Justice protecting consumers because consumers are the basis of society, and you are the foundations of a bank society. I demand that you also vote for this amendment to vote for that amendment. If you will not vote in favour of this amendment, then you are against the consumers of the Republic of Croatia and the unfair and illegal banks that work illegally. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49406	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. We move on to the last amendment of the 10th to Article 44. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49407	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are similar to those of the previous two amendments, which is that this law applies to credit agreements concluded before its entry into force is not in accordance with the Housing Contracts Directive which explicitly prohibits retroactive application. And once again, I would like to stress that this law contains exactly a number of, many provisions that bring much better consumer protection than existing legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49408	Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49409	So I'm not going to ask for a vote because these amendments were previously rejected, so there's no point in me asking for a vote on this amendment. But I'm still gonna have to give you grade four, not great because you didn't accept what was possible. So still very good for this law, I will vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49410	Okay. We are now moving to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. We have 7 amendments, 1st is on Article 3. Here's a colleague of Tufekčić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49411	The government accepts this amendment. The government accepts all amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49412	And well, if so, then all amendments to the Legislative Committee become an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. Now we move to a vote on the final proposal for a law on housing consumer credit, please vote. I find it unanimous with 110 votes for the House Consumer Credit Act, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49413	We will now move to the next point, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 176. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49414	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Credit Institutions Act is now ahead of us. It has been amended and complemented in several key areas for which we expect it to have positive effects on both the business of credit institutions and consumers, i.e. the clients of credit institutions, given that the Credit Institutions Act contains among others a specific chapter on consumer protection. The 2013 Credit Institutions Act was adopted in order to meet the requirements for compliance with the new legal framework at EU level in the area of banking and the provisions so-called “banking” have been transposed. CREDITS or Directives that prescribe capital requirements. On the accession of the activities of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and the implementation of so-called The amount to be reported shall be reported in column 060 of the CR SA template. In 2015, in order to transpose part of the Directive on the establishment of a framework for the recovery and rehabilitation of credit institutions and investment firms, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on credit institutions relating to recovery plans developed by credit institutions has been adopted, early intervention measures taken by the Croatian National Bank when the legal requirements and financial support agreements of the group are met. As regards the most important amendments and additions, the first is the transposition of Article 103. CRDIV Directives. This is a provision which was, in fact, in some ways, suggested by the European Commission that it was not adequately transposed and fully transposed into national legislation, although it applies as such in a good way. But here's the thing, given our commitment, we have to fully implement it. The main reason why it is necessary to amend the Credit Institutions Act is the fact, which is why I said that the provision of Article 103 governing the application of supervisory measures to institutions of similar risk profiles has not been explicitly transposed. The Croatian National Bank shall also be empowered to establish, when carrying out a supervisory review, that credit institutions similar to risk profiles, such as similar business models or geographical position of exposure are either exposed to similar risks or pose similar risks to the financial system, it may apply the same way in order to carry out a supervisory and express equal supervisory measures. The Croatian National Bank will inform the European Banking Authority EBU about this. It is important to note here that the Croatian National Bank and according to the current legislative framework, as I said, therefore the internal procedures of the CNB may impose such measures regardless of the fact that this article in question is not fully transposed. The implementation of the 2014 Council Regulation on the part of the statutory audit of credit institutions is also possible. The application of this Regulation will provide for the greatest part of the adoption of a new law on audit. And since credit institutions are a public-interest entity, as we heard this morning, its example should also be ensured by this law in the part of the legal audit of credit institutions. In this section, the three items are key, the maximum period of 7 years consecutive in which the same audit firm may carry out a statutory audit for the same credit institution shall be determined. The current situation has been confirmed even though the revision regulation allows up to 10 years. The continuation of the statutory audit of the credit institution by the same audit company is permitted after 4 years and the audit firm shall not perform the nervous services of the prescribed Regulation for the credit institution without the use of exceptions in the year carrying out the statutory audit. In addition, provisions on the memory of a qualifying share have been developed, provisions on the holding of a qualifying participation in a credit institution with a guideline for the credit assessment of acquisition and the increase of qualifying shares in the financial sector adopted by the European supervisory authorities. Additional protection of creditors in the merger and attachment of credit institutions has been introduced. The amendments introduce exactly the additional protection of creditors and clients to credit institutions in those cases, therefore, the merger and attachment of credit institutions based in and outside the Republic of Croatia. More detailed rights and obligations are developed in the event of the establishment of a branch. Provisions relating to the business and supervisory of a branch of credit institutions from other Member States are adopted. In addition, the resolution procedure has been improved to a lesser extent, the powers of the competent authorities are specified in the implementation of the procedure for the recovery of the credit institution, so that the DAB or the State institution for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks can decide on the existence of conditions for determining the inaccessibility of the deposit, and on the basis of that decision the CNB will be able to make solutions on the inaccessibility of the deposit. And finally, the big chapter, of course, is dedicated to protecting consumers. Therefore, general information on services is improved, free of charge delivery of the payment plan, it is prescribed that the credit institution is obliged to the consumer at its request free of charge and, at any time during the entire duration of the loan contract, to make the report available in the form of a payment plan. In addition, the obligation to repay the deleted obvious and all instruments of insurance of the credit paid, it is prescribed that the credit institution is obliged to notify the consumer of the payment of the total loan within 15 days of the date of the repayment of the credit, in full, without compensation and in a contractual manner, and inform him of the way in which the deleted evidence is taken from all the instruments of the insurance of the credit paid-off. Also under the transitional provisions, a provision is prescribed for the repayment of all instruments of payment of the loan within 2 years or without delay at the request of the consumer. For loans paid in full within 10 years before the entry into force of this law. The Commission notes that the credit institution is obliged to submit a report on the total balance of the debt, with a balance on the date of transfer of the debt according to the following items, principal, interest, compensation, etc. This report on the overall state of delivery shall be delivered with notice of the adjustment of the demand, i.e., a lease for which the consumer's consent is not required. The supervision carried out by the CNB has also been improved since the territory of the Republic of Croatia, established and branches of a credit institution from other Member States, has been required to specify the powers that the CNB has in the segment of consumer protection for credit institutions from other Member States, which provide its services in the field of the Republic of Croatia. Credit institutions from other Member States, which provide their services in the Republic of Croatia directly or through a branch under the rules on a single passport, are authorised to work for the competent authorities of the Member States in which they are established. This means that the CNB is not authorised to supervise in the manner that the credit institutions that have received the authorisation to work from the CNB are supervised. The proposed changes, of course, I repeat once again are aimed at better quality consumer protection. Finally, the entry into force of this law has been postponed 8 days from the date of its publication in the N.N. This is a bill of law, so first reading, and certainly we are ready to hear your suggestions and comments, that is, everything you think can contribute to the improvement of this existing bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49415	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He is the first to be respected representative of Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49416	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, I'll only have two suggestions to officially deliver between the two readings. Well, one proposal would refer to Art. 135. where I would recommend adding a new item 2, which would be prescribed that banks in all those contracts in which they did not contract a variable interest rate in the correct manner. So contracts where they didn't say parameters, they unilaterally defined them. In order to determine in such a contract, no interest rate should be applied greater than the initial agreed interest rate. In this way, we would also respect the word of a collective verdict, in which it is clearly stated that banks are no longer allowed to behave, but banks have continued to act accordingly. So transferred to that Art. 135. the new paragraph 2 which would limit the interest rate in loans in which it is illegally agreed, without parameters, to the highest possible initial interest rate. The second proposal refers to Art. 68. where I suggest behind the added paragraph 8 adds a new item 9 to which it would be determined, here I will read, not to interpret what I've already written, like this. Prior to the potential sale of placements, it is the commission, the credit institution is obliged to offer the debtor a write-off of part of the debt on the percentage of debt reduction for the planned sale of payments to the new creditor, and to allow the debtor to pay the rest of the debt within 8 days or within 60 days if he is able to pay the debt with a new loan. Thus, consumers would be further protected where the bank sells to the new believer debt, but at a very reduced amount, let's say 80% lower. Then on the basis of such a legal provision, the bank would have to offer the debtor a reduction of the principal and all debts by 80%, allowing him to pay back that 20%, not to sell this. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49417	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49418	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Maric. Here you talk about consumer protection many times today, I am interested in your concern for consumers, how is it possible that hundreds and hundreds of thousands of citizens in Croatia are in a blockade under the covers, unable to repay their loans? You're probably familiar with the results of the Economic Institute that 70% of citizens can't live on pay. So we're not talking about unemployed people, we're not talking about social cases, we're talking about employees, and 70% of them can't survive the month with pay. So obviously that consumer protection is not good because people are in debt slavery. Here during today's discussions on credit institutions I've given myself the effort to look a little bit over the internet and the credit institutions we're discussing and there's a whole series of credit institutions for credit incapacitated citizens, I repeat again, so they're called credit incapacitated citizens. And now if we have credited incompetent citizens how it's possible to give them credit means they're still getting further into trouble, and all of them on their front pages have written we have the approval of the Ministry of Finance, the license of the Ministry of Finance. Now I want to ask you here, do you personally sign licenses to agencies that offer loans to credit incompetent citizens, agencies that offer loans to people up to 84 years of age, with interest in how many of them there are in the Republic of Croatia, who allow loans to citizens and who have blacklists and blockades and enforcement without the employer's clearance, without checking HROK, how is that possible? So explain to me your concern for consumer protection with these moves you're pulling on the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49419	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first is on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives to speak to the distinguished representative Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49420	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Here's a package of laws from the Ministry of Finance today. Most of these are compliance with EU directives, especially this morning's first revision law that we now have to implement in this Credit Institutions Act, so these are two complementary laws that complement each other and one of the biggest newspapers in this law and seems to have a lot of articles going on here, changing about changing the supervision of the audit we talked about this morning, especially the revision of public interest where credit institutions are there with a special emphasis. Also in this law, as the Prime Minister said, one not to say a request, the European Commission's recommendation that something that was once in the CNB's internal procedures is now directly entered into the law, that the provision is still to be strengthened so as not to be able to through certain regulatory provisions of supervisory measures for these credit institutions that are similar to the risk of the placement. It means certain technical improvements in the law compared to what has already been applied. However, what I am particularly not to say here is cheerful, but it is looking forward to that particular emphasis on consumer protection is what my colleague Bunjac said, and I am now interested in whether it may have been in this Credit Institution Act before that it might have been given to the CNB to have a broad application to consumer protection and to those credit institutions that did not have the approval of the CNB but who did business abroad, whether the issue of RBA cooperatives would have happened to us. Reading the current law, such a form of RBA business would no longer be possible because all the time the CNB said that, if we had some problems in the law, we can't have those who offer loans here in our islands etc., our citizens who are not creditworthy can't do anything to them because we're not regulated for them and then say so for the government. The government also doesn't have the instruments if it doesn't have the legal to follow that part, and that's what we expect from the CNB their more proactive role. If this is the case, let us say that we did not have that part regulated, and now we are improving this in law and it is proposed that the CNB extends the power to monitor consumer protection and to credit institutions from other Member States that provide their services in the area of the Republic of Croatia. To date, CNB has only followed consumer protection in credit institutions which have granted work approval, and to credit institutions from other Member States which provide their services in the field of the Republic of Croatia directly is they often also coming to the Croatian market, not to mention those bags that were transferred across borders or through branches according to the rules on a single passport authorisation for the work of the competent authorities of the Member States in which they were established, which means that the CNB was not then authorised to monitor. The proposed amendments propose to extend the scope of the CNB's powers to credit institutions from other Member States providing their services in the area of the Republic of Croatia, all with a view to better quality consumer protection. If this is the article that prevents any in the future, so-called. Some new RBA cooperatives, and I hope that is why it is proposed, is the question why because the government had to react first, the government of Mr. Plenkovic to pass the law, or Mr. Skibol, to react to that part, and then this part comes. The question arises as to why and what was working for the CNB of these loans, I remember well... Mr. Shuker seems to me in 2003, the fourth one was already on the Croatian market. Now from 2003 to 2017, the CNB says that if we couldn't do it, now add that law and we'll be able to do it. So it is the proactive role of monetary policy and credit institutions, the one that oversees that part of credit institutions, and that says that, the government you have no authority there because we follow the entire entry, monetary entry into Croatia, means how much money is coming in, that is not the issue of this across the border, whether customs will look, means they are monitoring monetary aggregates as much as they are and how much it is and how much it can enter that hot capital, and all the time, we actually have one chaos with Croatian citizens because the Croatian government had no operational instrument to protect it in this context. And then we're actually getting, as I say, which is commendable, but I'm just asking a question from my colleagues from the National Bank, so 13, 14 years are waiting for some kind of stronger consumer protection where we just say here, and now we can control those who come from other countries, they don't have work permits, and we know that these monetary institutions are actually in some kind of ownership relationship between those same credit institutions that are already operating on the RS market. So anyway, in that part, we commend that part if that's what it's about, at least that's how I read it. And whether it will strengthen the non-occurring tomorrow of any kind, as Mr. Bunjac, credit intermediaries who offer various credits, we don't know whether they, whose supervision, are particularly concerned if they're giving out certain credits without a credit check and I think it's a similar case again of those like the RBA cooperatives. Because you have in some kind of business of such abundance of banking, where actually when you come in you just say you can't get, you can't put that kind of money on the market because you know that in a few months, you're actually going to find these people in trouble. It is also understood here that at the technical level, the relationship between the DAB or the State Agency for the Resuscitation of Savings Deposits and the CNB in the implementation of certain recovery procedures is primarily in that part that the CNB cannot withdraw the authorisation for the work of the credit institution in the recovery as long as such proceedings continue and in other cases propose a decision from the inaccessibility of deposits with a credit institution located in the recovery process to bring the DAB because it implements the resolution of the credit institution seeking to achieve the objectives of the recovery that implies the re-establishment of regular business. If this is not possible, the DAB may submit a proposal for the bankruptcy of the credit institution in the recovery. It is said that the DAB implements the recovery and says that it is best aware of the situation in the credit institution, it is not possible for me, that the DAB, which is only later on, when the bank is in trouble, is better acquainted than the CNB itself, which should have, what we were saying today, is control over that credit institution and that they are constantly sending certain reports to the CNB, the CNB is constantly doing some supervisory measures in these credit institutions and the DAB is only coming after that if a certain consequence has actually happened. But, well, if that's what they agreed on, I believe they got a positive opinion from both the CNB and the DAB, if they agreed that it was easier for them to deal with that part operationally this way. Whether there are certain means or not, I have nothing to do with it. So the SDP club supports the proposal to amend and supplement the Credit Institutions Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49421	Thank you very much. He had two replicas. First respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49422	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovec, remember yourself, until two, three years ago, don't let God think that someone dared something against the CNB. And the younger colleagues probably don't know that, but we need to get into the websites a little bit, so read what's been said, which is what's been said about the CNB. So it's an independent institution and don't give God no matter what political options, that someone touched or objected to the work of the CNB. I once accidentally dared to do it twice as a minister, for three months they dragged me around and I just asked how the CNB could make a decision to increase the reserve without talking to the finance minister? You remember the announcement of the Dnevnik, the governor said, the governor predicted it and it was the Holy Scriptures, don't let God stand up to it. However, today when viewed from a certain distance of some things, it seems a little different because if you look at both this law and the EU directive, it does not say anywhere that the CNB could not have done anything. But for the sake of young colleagues and colleagues, you know that today the CNB does not recognise HBOR as a bank, as a credit institution. They're not going to control her, they're not going to redecorate her, you just can't order her. And there is no finance minister who was not in the interest of the HBOR being part of these credit institutions, and that the CNB is controlling and revising it. The same story, those famous loans on the pillars, there are colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. Asking how these people can simply be brought before the law, how one can offer credit on columns or for a wiper. However, when I speak in the debate, then I will talk about it, it was not easy to get a loan like today in Croatia. But that's what I'm going to discuss on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49423	The next replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49424	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Lalovac, you spoke in your debate about how foreign credit institutions also act in Croatia with a very suspicious character, here is the bottom question, one particular case. We have Feratum Bank, it's a bank from Malta, Malta is otherwise known as a centre along with Cyprus, in money laundering. The bank offers loans in Croatia, has no single business. You can't find the bank's business anywhere, they publish credit offers on the Internet, and that, in their offer of credit, gives completely false information. They specifically claim that if you take 5000 kuna credits with them and return after a month, you have to pay back 5030 kuna or that the total interest with costs is 30 kuna. And if you really took a loan from them, you'd have to pay 6000 kuna back after a month. So you'd have to pay almost 20% more than what you're offered. So we have a bank, which is a side, which has no business in the Republic of Croatia, which operates on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and provides false information. Minister Maric won't answer me. He thinks what I'm saying is irrelevant and what Governor Vujcic says, but people take these loans and buy it. And after that, they're looking for protection. And protection should have been given to one who regulated the market that should have simply prevented such credit institutions from working in advance. And that's where debt slavery becomes a problem. No one falls into debt slavery because they took up a residential loan in the bank, but people often fall into debt slavery by taking loans from so-called. credit intermediaries, card companies and all other lenders who are free to operate in Croatia, and no one wants to put an end to them. Why doesn't he want to put an end to them? That's probably because he's connected to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49425	Thank you. Next is the Representatives' Club of the Living Wall on behalf of the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49426	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we have a debate here today. She is one-way, because the questions asked by the finance minister, he does not want to answer. Well, anyway, I'm glad they're at least listening to the citizens I'm talking to at this point. So we're listening here for who knows what time this government and the competent authorities are taking care of their consumers, the citizens, how perfect and beautiful everything is. Here, order has been introduced, and from day to day we testify that, therefore, according to research by the Economic Institute, 70% of citizens cannot survive the month. Because as we talk about regulation, how we talk about consumer protection, when we're in such a sad state. I repeat the question once again, how is it possible, therefore, that there are so many credit institutions in Croatia that lend loans beyond all the rules prescribed, including these rules prescribed by the Law on Residential Consumer Credits. How is it possible that in Croatia there is a whole series of citizens who have bigger credit wars than there are receipts? So people have bigger credit rates than they have monthly incomes. Well, here's Minister Maric himself had bigger credit rates than he had his receipts. Here, I'd like to protect him from it, too, so something like that doesn't happen in the future. I believe he suffered a lot while he was in such a situation, but now the situation has improved, as far as we can tell from his property card. What kind of banks and credit institutions are on a lamppost near a tram station? Well, come on, let's go for a walk together, right down here to the Salachica pay, 20 banks on the wall of some house. They give loans up to 84 years, to 70% of receipts, doesn't need HROK, doesn't matter blacklisted blocks. It doesn't matter that you don't have a credit rating. Just take it, sign it. It's who that when you offer the gambler money, he'll take whatever you offer him, some interest is 300 percent, he'll take it, because he's desperate. But you should take care of your citizens, for which you so often now mention, because Croatia is a social state among other things, under point 1 of the Constitution. And you allow social problems, social cases to accumulate in Croatia. Citizens are in debt slavery. When citizens are in debt slavery, the economy and society collapse. The country is collapsing. People run from the ground or go to extremes. A lot of these extremes we've been able to see lately, they've come about because the economic situation is bad. Where does xenophobia come from, hate? It's about people who can't survive. It's the social problems generators. And finally, you encourage them. And eventually you encourage them. Because you and the CNB, don't do anything to protect the citizens. You bring laws theoretically yes, theoretically, but implementation is nothing. No demands. If it were indeed the implementation of these laws, the Ferratum Bank would not have done business in Croatia. Citizens would not have a duty greater than 1/3 of their incomes. Everyone here present and inaccessible and citizens who have lower incomes could survive with 2/3 to stay with them, but they don't. Because in the Croatian register, the obligations of the user are not entered into by all credit obligations. The Ferratum Bank won't be written off. Credits to consumers on cards, Diners, American, Visa will not be entered into the Croatian Register of Obligations. And that's all the things you could solve but you don't have a text. And what's the scariest of all? Once again, the scariest thing about it is that all these foundry institutions have your license, they're proud of it. The license was issued by the Ministry of Finance. I ask Minister Lalovac, he says I've never signed, so who is it? Are you? Now watch how these credit institutions allegedly offer loans to citizens. Witness Iva Vrbančić, testifys about this credit institution, I don't know, now what it's called, Atom, Hit, anyway, my credit was granted the same day, payment too, and I shouldn't have wasted my time bypassing banks and sending papers. In one word, bravo. Who is Marina Galovic, who is she? That looks like that Chang Shang tea to me, take and all your problems will be solved in five minutes, you'll lose, I don't know, 50kg in a month, you'll look like a movie star, and so will these loans. And what happens after all? In the end, it happens that citizens are simply due to ignorance, because he does not have to have knowledge, nor is he educated from the economy, from the right, stuck in debt slavery in which he remains his whole life, Mr. Maric. All my life. And he loses not only his dignity, but he loses his family life, loses his home, and loses his sense of existence. And to you, of course, it's a question you don't want to answer. You hid behind your Credit Institutions Act, about residential consumer lending and you are happy and satisfied because you have beautifully written paper, and life in Croatia is something completely different from your paper. And that's what you should finally connect. Practice theory. For this reason, I agree with my colleague Pernar, who said that these laws solve problems only partially, that they are not dealing with the cause of the problem and that they will not solve this law or this one sooner than the residential, consumer lending of Croatian citizens' problems. At least they'll stay the same, and they'll probably get worse, even harder. So I ask you, on this side, to finally start taking real steps towards resolving debt slavery, and I expect the results of these real steps to be seen where it is needed, which is to reduce the number of blocked citizens, plus to reduce the number of executions and to reduce the number of such interest institutions that we witness each day to multiply by an increasing and larger number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49427	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Mark Vučetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49428	My colleague Bunjac, what you were talking about, I think it is, however, that it is some kind of expansion and that it is still premature to carry out such a conclusion, it is something in the literature called state terrorism. So, an economy that doesn't take care of its citizens, which doesn't care about the financial power of its citizens, that state, even so, works and performs a terrorist act. It seems to me that we are not in such a situation and that when we explain some laws as Parliamentarians, we should nevertheless make sure that our starting points and starting positions are focused on how we will develop society, how we will develop policies in which we can integrate the needs and opportunities of our citizens, rather than starting with the position of intimidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49429	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49430	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, I believe it's as good for you as Minister Maric. But I speak for those citizens who are not well. I'm here every day and now I'm getting messages as long as this debate takes place where citizens literally write me the same as Agent Pernar's desperate letters. I've been answering e-mails all day, I've been answering phone calls all day, and here's the people who came to me and at Parliament's door today, you can check down at the Assembly Guard three times. To warn me of the situation they're in, which is that they literally have nothing to eat. And those messages you get from citizens, and you can get them if you're interested in them, are completely impediments to what we're hearing here today. Because if we accept what Minister Maric and his followers are telling us, as far as I can tell. Then we would have the impression that Croatia is essentially on a very good path, that we are getting better, that we have nothing to complain about. In fact, it's best if we all put our hands up right now for this law, to solve Minister Marić's every further controversy in this House, sitting down, and that's it. That's the message you're sending. You're supposed to be the opposition, and you're attacking the opposition. You are engaged in opposition in your presentation. And then go back to the HDZ as you were, in fact, you seem sorry that they blew you off in April just for Minister Maric's sake. And now you're still giving him support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49431	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49432	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] So before I speak specifically about this bill, given that today's overall debate, you know what, in finance it's very difficult and very dangerous to talk about some things if you don't take potential causes, certain movements, and so when we talk about loans, credit debt, I remember in 2005 when the first kuna bonds were issued because it was considered a terrible success because credit institutions in the Republic and the financial market managed to raise a few billion kunas to buy out the bonds of the Republic. However, all today when they speak as if they were always in Croatia, Croatian construction, Croatian companies could only get a loan like that. And they also forget what the average salaries were, I will take some reference year 2000 and 2008 before the start of that big financial and economic crisis and draw parallel to how much one average salary could be bought at that time and that Croatia signed an agreement on the start of EU entry negotiations, that the financial market opened up, etc. So the average salary in Croatia in 2000 was 3.326 kuna, 2008 before the start of the economic crisis was 5.178 kuna. At the same time, the number of employees in Croatia was slightly less than a million and 300 thousand, while in 2008 there were a million and 518 thousand. And now you have two things, on the one hand, what you haven't been able to live up to now, I'm using one expression, it may not be appropriate, but it's often used in our language or in madness, so credit cards, credit cards. On the one hand, you have that opening up to you, and on the other hand you have that your wages are growing, that your employment is growing and that automatically leads to something, which is a huge expansion of the dependence of Croatian citizens on credit institutions. That's a fact. The second thing, the CNB statute in Croatia was regardless of the political options of the non-political options and those of the independent and such, such as, it was a sacred cow, it should not be touched, they knew everything best, they conducted everything. God forbid someone dared say something, it's just facts. And just in that period that I'm talking about right now, there's been Swiss, there's been a lot of credit duties that many unfortunately our fellow citizens have been blocked because they've either lost their jobs or changed some things. Also, whether someone could react or not, it will remain a major questionnaire. Therefore, I am pleased to see that the provisions of Directive 103 CRD/IV will finally be applied, which therefore gives the CNB, in the conduct of supervisory audits and in the application of supervisory measures to credit institutions of the same and similar risk profiles, for example. similar business models and the European position of exposure benefit from the same way of performing supervisory and equal supervisual measures as for such institutions in Croatia. We can also easily say that the CNB had to do it without this provision in law, no one would defend it and no one would be able to stand up to it. And when we talk about Raiffeisen Savings, I think that of all these MPs for this speaker I talked about the most, I even made a proposal to the government on behalf of the HDZ Club to suspend all performances and all procedures until it was clearly defined what the position was really like because what my colleague Lalovac said, unfortunately some of them came with bags of money, were intermediaries, were enlisted in land-booked offices, and in the end we have a situation like we have. If it were all connected within the state, probably some things wouldn't have happened. But this is what I felt the need to say because today we've heard everything here and everything, and people when they're pressed in trouble, then clearly they're looking for a way out and a way out of anything. But nothing happened by accident, and nothing happened by accident, and no one with a gun forced anyone to go on a loan. But if you have an economic growth of 5%, if you have an annual salary growth of 7.8%, if you have increased employment, the logical thing is that citizens themselves want to afford something more. Well, that's the most normal thing in every man's life, that he wants to afford an apartment, that he wants to afford this or that, that's facts, and that's in every man's nature. And let's not say now that it's something negative because if a man didn't behave like that, probably the progress of civilization wouldn't be the way he is. And that's where I'm gonna stop for this part. So as far as this law is concerned, practically my colleague Lalovec and I and everyone else who would argue could basically repeat what the minister said, it's purely technical stuff, so you can't do it anyway. If we have supported the Law on Audit today, then it is logical that this law applies to credit institutions and that instead of ten years, we put seven years in place that one audit society cannot carry out an audit longer. Also, if we are aware of the fact that banks have used their position in recent times and treated citizens in certain ways, that as a member of the EU, we are given the opportunity to regulate it legally and legally eliminate it, then the logical thing to do is to install it as a legal provision, black and white, so that no one can ever think of interpreting certain legal provisions as it fits. So, not to repeat everything the minister has been saying about how this law will protect consumers, what banks are obliged to send as notice to citizens at the moment and when the loan is paid and when the debt is bought, etc., so these are all the techniques. However, the whole situation in Croatia did not happen by chance. I was talking about certain macroeconomic indicators, certain events that were the prerequisite for this to happen, that Croatia's salary from 2004 to 2008 did not grow as it grew, that it did not increase employment safely that the credit rating for Croatian citizens was not as big as it is. And the other thing, colleagues and colleagues, regardless of the distance between 2000 and 2017, is only 17 years, but there's a lot of us that we've had for a few years then, when you look at only that pile of home bills you've had in 2000, as far as you today are in 2017, then it'll become clear to you how much you could buy for your salary in 2000 more than you can buy today. So, just out of that, and when we talk about these problems that we've been talking about all day, then we just can't get it out of our minds, out of sight, and also out of our sight, if we hadn't become a member of the EU, if we hadn't become one part of the common financial and economic market, maybe you're a lot of things even a colleague of Lalovac while he was a minister couldn't afford, because he'd probably be attached to some things, and so today you're also a colleague of Maric. But today we are in a position to regulate certain legal provisions and in a certain way to protect our citizens from paying for what they shouldn't pay for. The HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49433	Thank you, we have one replica of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49434	Thank you very much. So, if I understand correctly, Your Honor, Mr. Schucker, you claim that in 2000 there could be more purchases than can be bought today. ... You're saying the other way around? ... [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]] So basically here we heard the claim that in 2000 the citizens had less wages than they have today and that they had a lower standard, that it was a claim, that now as a standard, they increased, but let's look at this claim from official statistics. [[- Intruder Shuker, he doesn't understand.]] [[Please, let's not, let's not...]] So, the average salary in Croatia was three thousand kunas, two and a half, three thousand, and now it's five and a half thousand. How much gas could you buy for your salary in 2000? Here's how much I'll tell you. 740 liters, 740 liters. And at this point today, with this salary you've even listed, you can buy 550 liters. So in 2000, with twice the salary or how much it was, I could buy 250 liters of gasoline more. That, in my opinion, shows that in fact the standard of citizens has collapsed. That same year you said, there was a 2 kuna salad, let's buy a 2 kuna salad today, you'll pay at least 10 or a head, whatever people sell. The bananas were four kunas. Let's get these food tables, fruit tables, vegetables, directors, fuel, and see what people could buy before they could buy today. In the end, statistics show that Romania has already reached us by standard, Baltic countries, all countries except Bulgaria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49435	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed counsel of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49436	A colleague of Bunjac, the time you're talking about to Split, you've been traveling for 8 hours, and today you've been traveling for 3 and a half hours. Are we going to compare more parameters? When you compare things, and you are well undermined by God, then things must be methodologically conscious to the same level and then you should compare them. So I just gave a few information to show what was going on and what was the trend in Croatia. And if we're going to talk about this topic that you're talking about, then let's see how many Croatian citizens had cell phones at that point, I said, you traveled to Split for 8 hours if there were no crowd and a bunch of other things. How many wireless internets in Croatia were there then? He wasn't there at all. Is there anything else we'd like to mention? Let's put the methodological stuff on the same thing and then we'll discuss it. And I'm glad you said this, because we're discussing arguments, you've made one argument, I've made other arguments. You have stated that something has been collected, but there are other things that have cost many things to open the market in Croatia. And when you look at the revenue side of the budget, then you'll see that the tax revenue is that big and so much. Okay, let's get the excises on the fuel. But how are we going to make up for those 3 billion kunas? Or let's get those 60 lips out of the car, actually for roads, 80 lips, 20 lips for highways, 20 lips from HH, and say where we're going to finance it. We can talk about that too. But at the moment when you're talking about 700 liters of gasoline, then practically excise duty was negligible, and when you don't tell us again you signed under EU directives, you have prescribed how much the lowest excise duty on diesel fuel can be, and Croatia is sticking to it because of the unity of the market. And that's all the facts we can't escape from, but I was just trying to get 2, 3 dry data to see what trends were.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49437	Thank you very much. Now we've got an individual debate, a distinguished representative of Pernar, he's gone, he's losing his right to speak. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49438	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 176. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Institutions and All objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 113 for, 8 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49439	We move to: - Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2365 on transparency of securities and re-use transactions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 175 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here is a proposal for a law on the implementation of the transparency regulation of securities financing transactions and re-uses, perhaps some of you will ask a question of the very name of this Regulation, and I must immediately mention it, and we have asked ourselves this question but we are obliged in such cases, indeed that original translates it completely into Croatian. I would allow me a few words to say exactly on this subject so that we know exactly what this is about, or what the key elements of the regulation itself are, or what we are transposing into our legislation. It is therefore a regulation published in the Official Journal of the EU on 23 December 2015, entered into force on 12 January 2016 and is directly applicable in all EU Member States without the need to transpose it into national legislation. Therefore, within the regulation, there are certain areas where Member States are given discretionary rights or where it requires the application of national legislation. The main objective of the Regulation is to directly introduce a set of legal obligations to market participants because of the need to increase the transparency of the paper value financing market and thus the overall financial system. In this respect, the securities financing transaction relates to repo transactions, the lending of securities or goods, the purchase and resale transactions,....transactions of sales and repurchases... and margin loans. This Regulation regulates two important areas, obliges other contracting parties in the value of paper financing transactions to provide details of all securities financing transactions they have concluded as well as any change and interruption to a trade repository that collects and maintains records of securities financing transactions in the central place. Rules on the reuse of financial instruments received under the collateral contract shall be laid down. It shall only be prescribed that re-use is carried out if the other contracting party providing the collateral is explicitly informed and agreed. Three key areas governing this law. The authorities responsible for the exercise of supervision shall be designated in accordance with the provisions of their division of competence, part-time work and powers, and mechanisms to encourage the reporting of possible or actual infringements of the Regulation and to determine infringements for the conduct of the anti-registration and the level of fines for certain infringements of the legal and natural persons to which the Regulation applies. This law provides for certain authorities to exercise supervision in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, their division of competence, part-time work and powers. So both HANFA and HNB are as specific as those authorities. The HANFA and the CNB are obliged to establish effective mechanisms for the adoption and investigation of reports of possible or actual infringements of the Regulation and to continue to act, including the establishment of secure communication channels for such applications. The trend of cross-border activities should also be taken into account here and international exchanges of information relevant for the performance of their tasks, including in situations where infringement or suspicion of infringement may be important for competent authorities in two or more Member States. Finally, infringements for the conduct of the anti-registration regulation and the level of fines for certain infringements of legal and natural persons to which the Regulation applies are established, given that Member States have an obligation to establish an appropriate sanction framework for breach of the provisions of the Regulation and to provide for appropriate measures which must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. It is proposed that this law enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49441	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. He's not here, he's losing his right to debate, of course, and later on, he's losing his right to discuss it individually. The next is representative Dragica Roscic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49442	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the minister with his associates and associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So before us is the proposal for a law implementing Regulation 2015/2365 on transparency of securities financing transactions and re-use. At first, I must say that the HDZ Club will support this law. The introduction of the provisions of this Regulation introduces a number of legal obligations to market participants because of the need to increase transparency of the securities financing market. This protects the entire financial system and in this sense the securities financing transaction refers to repo transactions, i.e. those transactions relating on the one hand to the lending of currently available assets and, on the other hand, to repurchase sales at a specific time with interest on specific terms, also to the lending of securities or goods of the purchase and re-sale transaction, as the minister said... and the marginal loans. What's very important is to say that there are certain penalties here and if we don't stick to these rules. The amount of fines shall be determined here and shall also provide for the division of competences in the following areas, in the areas of ensuring compliance with the reporting and protection obligations relating to securities financing transactions and ensuring compliance with the obligations relating to the reuse of financial instruments received under the collateral contract. In accordance with that division of competence, the Agency’s competence concerns the supervision of the entities of the Agency’s supervision established by Regulation (EC) 2015/2365 and the laws governing the capital market, insurance, establishment and management of voluntary pension funds, the establishment of the business of pension insurance companies, the establishment and management of open-end investment funds with a public offering and the establishment and management of alternative investment funds in the Republic of Croatia. A CNB’s supervision concerns credit institutions designated by the same Regulation and laws governing the establishment and operation of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Few people here in the Assembly are dealing with issues of general value paper, but this is very important because disrespecting new rules, reducing transparency endangers the entire financial system of a particular state, so I repeat once again that we will support the club's law and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49443	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49444	And I missed one point, so we have to vote on it. This is the proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation 2015/2365 on transparency in the transaction of securities financing and re-use, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 175. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation 2015/2365 on transparency of securities and re-use transactions is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that, with 119 votes for and 2 votes, it has been held to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49445	We move to: - Proposal for a law on geodetic activity, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 169. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State, Zeljko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49446	Ladies and gentlemen, the conduct of expert geodetic work in the Republic of Croatia and the association of the Croatian chamber, authorised geodetic engineers, has been governed by the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity, which was adopted in 2008, and has been amended in 2011, 2013 and the application of this law ensures that spatial data collected by the processing, updating, controlling and distribution of persons performing expert geodetic tasks are the basis of all procedures carried out in space. For this reason, but also for reasons of general social interest, expert geodetic jobs prescribed by this law must be carried out professionally, in quality and effectively. However, the applicable law was in line with the Internal Market Services Directive 2006 and the 2005 Professional Qualifications Recognition Directive. However, as a result of the adoption of a Directive 2013, amending the 2005 Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and the EU Regulation on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System, it is necessary to carry out certain harmonisations in the part of the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, and to bring into line the rules prescribed by the provision of expert geodetic services by foreign persons, so that they can freely carry out expert geodetic activities in the activities of the Republic of Croatia, under the same conditions as natural and legal persons with a business side in the Republic of Croatia. It was therefore necessary to review the provisions containing administrative barriers to the free performance of expert geodetic activities, to bring them into line with the normative solutions and practices of EU Member States, especially those relating to state-account and real estate catalogues, and to matters related to spatial planning and construction in the area relating to land land land parceling for the needs of spatial planning and construction and to the recording of building buildings in the cadastre and land register, supervision of the conduct of these operations, and to arrange the professional examination and professional training of persons performing professional and geodetic tasks. In this context, an analysis has been carried out of the rules which are regulated by the issue of geodetic activity within the EU Member States. The solutions proposed are traced to identify the best practices in the regulation that are present in Member States, whose members have joined the European Geodes Association. In addition to the general provisions, the draft law contains specific chapters, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the conduct of expert geodetics where responsible persons and associates are prescribed. Then the provisions of association in the chamber, public authority, general public city acts of the chamber and similar tasks related to chamber action. This law also seeks to achieve specific objectives and to review and evaluate solutions so far from the aspect of EU membership, meet the criteria of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality in the regulation of geodetic activities and other regulatory matters. Efforts to strike a balance between the need for more free access to the market for economic operators and the need for their professional work to meet public interest laws in providing geodetic services. At the same time, conditions are introduced which must be met by authorised geodesy engineers, i.e., joint offices and legal entities registered for the performance of professional, geodetic activities, which ensure the control of the expertise and the execution of expert geodetic tasks partly carried out by the State Geodetic Authority through a system of granting consent to carry out professional and geodetic activities, but to a large extent the professional chamber is competent. We hope that the passed law will meet all these expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49447	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Most and Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj appeared. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And later, an individual discussion. So we will move on to the next Club of Representatives, which is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49448	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, directors of the State Audit Office, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Geodetic Activity, as the government proposed in its first reading. Already in the opening, the State Secretary pointed out the reasons for the adoption of this law, which was originally adopted in 2008, twice changed in the meantime, but on the basis of the 2013 Directive, it was necessary to fully comply with this law with the European Directive, so that, given the changes that the law had been made through 2 amendments and these new provisions prescribed by the European Directive, it is good to make a whole new law on the implementation of geodetic activity. What is important is that geodetic business is divided into 2 groups, those tasks that are in the function of national measurement, the creation of a real estate catastra and other areas of professional geodetic work that are practically technical. The conditions required by geodetic engineers and geodetic experts are laid down in order to obtain the authority of an authorised geodetic engineer, so in this sense we in the HDZ Club absolutely support the adoption of such a law. What the Committee itself was talking about, so on several occasions here in this assembly, I also said when the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Construction was passed that by prescribing certain tasks that had to be prescribed and defined in the jurisdiction of the geodetic profession by this law or by the Law on State Measurement of Real Estates, not in other laws, such as the Law on Business Planning and the Construction Act. The fact is that in the geodetic profession, geodetic activity is still not yet defined until the end by a geodetic project, the committee also spoke of it necessarily through the announced State Measurement Act of the Real Estate Catastrophe to define absolutely all those jobs, all the pre-productions, all the elements and components to be defined, which should contain the geodetic project. The fact is that by adopting the Law on Spatial Planning, the proposer wanted to sublime all of the activities that are being done through it, for example in the process of obtaining a building permit, building buildings and its books in the land book, but the process itself has not been fully defined by the geodetic project and on the ground by authorised geodesy engineers, and individual catastrian offices treat the need and obligation of all the components of the geodetic project differently. So it would be good to have the new Law on State Measurement absolutely define what and how it must contain the geodetic project.... On the other hand, we also support the announced law making which, in addition to..., prescribes a way of doing state measurement and real estate catastra should be monitored with the dynamics of making state measurements on the territory of all Croatia. At this point, according to our data of 3.5 thousand catastrian municipalities in Croatia, all of them are one tenth and 10% in the process of new national measurements, and of these 10% only 3% and about 100 cadastrian municipalities already have a land book and a real estate cadastre. This is absolutely unacceptable for us in the Republic of Croatia, and it is necessary to move through the new programme of state measurements and catastra real estate into faster state geodetic measurement in order to cover as much space as possible the Republic of Croatia with a new state measure of new cadastrian plans. It is not only that the state, not only that units of local self-government are solving their problems through a new measure, and in the case of municipal compensation, and in the case of a municipal contribution and when it comes to the announced real estate tax, that problem will be addressed through the Law on municipal activity, but primarily by the fact that no new cadastral land measure has been created is a huge obstacle to investment in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, there is almost no investment in the Republic of Croatia which is not initially burdened by the resolution of property-legal relations resulting from the long-term absence of any excessive governmental measurements and the production of cadastres and land books. Therefore, the announced Law on State Measurement and Real Estates should address all these issues, problems that arise both in investment and in the functioning of state and local self-government. In this regard, we expect the State Geodetic Administration and the Resort Ministry to come up with a new law and these dubiosiss that I mentioned earlier and cited in the case of a geodetic project, and even more so when it comes to settled property-legal relations in the area of the Republic of Croatia to satisfy and resolve. Here, in that sense, we will support the adoption of this law at the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49449	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Vedran Babic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49450	Thank you, Vice President. Here's the esteemed fellow MPs. We have before us the Law on Geodetic Activities and the SDP Club will support this bill. As the ministry gentlemen have said and given us in materials, the law regulates the doing of professional geodetic jobs in the field of state measurement, the housing and the water cadastre, the professional geodetic jobs for the needs of spatial planning and construction, professional geodetic jobs for the purposes of the cohesion of agricultural land, professional geodetic jobs for the need to declare protected areas, other geodetic jobs performed as services to legal and physical persons and, of course, the association in the Croatian chamber of authorised geodetic engineers, and which in nature means the arrangement of the basic structure, decircation, public authority, membership in the same way. The amendments to the law in question have prompted the need to comply with Directive 2013/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20.11.2013 amending Directive 2005/36/EU with which the law has been harmonised and compliance with so-called ‘the Law’. Regulation... relating to administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System. The first two of those alignments with the Directives concerns the recognition of foreign professional qualifications and the harmonisation of the rules relating to geodetic affairs. I would just refer to this fact that the other classes of chambers of authorized engineers made this synchronization think two years and more before it happens now at the geodetics so here I might be in the final exposure if I were to love it would be... which is why it's so late for the geodetics. We also talked on the board about catastrian measurements that are certainly necessary for implementation, but there should certainly be a fact that there is a lot of money to be found to be implemented if they are regularly financed by local self-government units, and on the continent where many units of local self-government... budgets have almost and less than some and less than one million kuna, I don't know how much they can order and make them. As well as my colleague Bačić looked back on the geodetic project itself that we should make guidelines, I certainly support this and not only for the geodetic project but we know from experience that many times it happens that and when there are guidelines that some referents interpret the same in different ways simply the projectors have to adapt to the referents rather than to the guidelines that are given. In order not to owe and repeat what the promoters have brought, I confirm that the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49451	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that GLAS Representatives Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49452	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Secretary of State, Director of the State Geodetic Administration, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Geodetic Activities. This bill in the first reading, I really do express satisfaction every time we get the law in two readings for the simple reason that some doubt or something that opens through our debate, through discussion on committees, has the possibility of being incorporated into the final bill. Therefore, the GLAS and HSU will support this bill, but let me point to some situations and some problems. It's a law in which the geodetic profession of course, although it was a lot of dilemma, a lot of doubts, a lot of debates were in the chamber and on the board when I asked the director, then there was an observation and we got a lot of emails, obviously the geodetic profession still sat down and agreed what to do and how to do. This law points to a number of facts that we need to take care of and take care of in the future. Thus, the law is usually defined in a way that, in about the first dozen articles, you have activities, and about half of the law applies to the work of the chamber and how the chamber will work and how it will regulate its work. There are around 1700 in Croatia, so according to some recent geodetic data, you have about so many geodetics in some other countries, which suggests in the way of organisation, but what I would like to suggest through this debate is the following. So now jobs are geodetically divided into two groups. One group is related to business related and the consequences of changes in cataster, changes in real estate, changes in water cataster and other jobs that are related exclusively to natural and legal persons for a simple reason, and we need to say why. The geodetic profession has concluded, I am giving them the full right, in practice we will see what success is. We have and must have part of the recognition of qualifications, so foreigners can come and can work, and we have decided in this way to protect those tasks that are related to the catasters, with government jobs that we don't really do to God some others, that we have to be prepared to get and probably at some point some kind of experiment. But that points to another fact. Croatia has a special cadastre and has a special grantovnica. And particularly data is kept in the catastro and data is particularly kept in the garland, and that's the part where we have to keep an eye on, the part that in the next legislative changes or new laws, we need to keep an eye on it, and that's why we have a division of geodetic affairs on that, for jobs can only give consent to the State Geodetic Administration, the jobs that have the consequence of the real estate and the part of the business that's open to the market, and that's why we have it. Therefore, something to take care of in the future, and as long as I can speak and be in this assembly, I will speak and warn the following all the time. Croatia has problems with investment due to unsettled land books and an unsettled catastra. We're still running it separately, I think it's time to take one and absolutely consider legal solutions where it's possible to lead together and that's something to talk about, which should be taken care of. Equally, the new Law on Catastre and Land Change will come, we have the opportunity to speak, I have listened to it in the last 15 years, about the arrangement of the cadastre and grantovnica, and then of those 3600 catastrian municipalities some 5 or 6% are arranged, and that percentage is very rarely changed. We have those situations where geodetic measurements have been made, but where they haven't been carried out until the end, and we all know what can happen in our space for the next two to three years, if you haven't had a cadastrian change, in 2, 3 years, you've already been asked for a new measurement. The director has long experience, so I'm absolutely sure he knows what I'm talking about. This is the law that came to an end, we've all been in financial laws today, but no matter what the end is, I'm really taking the opportunity to say a few sentences. As I said before, we will support. Absolutely in good faith that everything was arranged with the chamber, because the chamber at the beginning had one 2, 3 years there was a lot of controversy about the way it was done. This is the kind of law we are, and that should be said, very stricter to our own geodetics. What we always need to know, that the regulation applicable to our geodetics in Croatia, applies in the same way as when they go to work somewhere outside. However, if the profession has agreed, if acceptable, it is absolutely not necessary to doubt it all together. However, the question that, and this division in business is talking about, is absolutely the time to consider when the new Law on Cataster and Measurement will be done, that perhaps, in parallel with that, the laws relating to land books are seen and that we finally try to connect it with each other. We'll have the first reading of the Agricultural Land Act tomorrow in the parliamentary procedure. When this first reading of the Agricultural Land Act comes, you also have a series of articles that point to the problem of disorder, the problem of the data we accept and there is the same problem, when it is said when the data is unsettled and in what way, we have to make it clear that we have unsettled data. I stood up for it, and I'll always advocate that maybe we should go first and take care of the data that's connected to the construction areas, and then everything else. However, the ruling will decide in which direction it all goes together. I'm in deep faith that it's all agreed with the chamber or the assumption that it's not, that our emails would be overloaded by the Chamber's data why and how in the deep faith that it's all right together and this part of the Chamber has 50% of the law is in the work of the Chamber. The same is true of professional exams, and geodetics are a little more stringent towards their geodetics than some other professions, so some other professions are about technical professions of architects, builders are more liberal but they are more liberal to the soul of geodetics because they have decided towards younger colleagues in terms of mentoring and other things to be somewhat stricter. But the assumption of that obviously the geodetic profession has quite enough on the market, and we will really as a club support in the first reading. I appreciate what goes on in two readings and until the second reading maybe think again about, maybe talking to the Chamber again that maybe a little bit of young colleagues who are just starting to be a little bit more liberal, or that you have the same provisions as some other technical professions because you're a little stricter than those other technical professions have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49453	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. This will end our work today. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30. first item will be the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forestry Advisory Service, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 168. Have a nice evening! Session interrupted at 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-09-20-0.u49454	Proposal for a Law on the conduct of geodetic activity, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 169. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. Proposal for a Law on the pursuit of geodetic activity and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 118 for, 3 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. The first item on the agenda today is the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forestry Advisory Service, first reading, P.Z.E., issue 168. But before that, we have several applications for discussion, the first one came to a colleague named Sincic.
