ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38793	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Live Wall and the SNAGA Club, I would like to take a break of ten minutes and then talk about the judgment of the Higher Court in Maribor which was ruled that the currency clause CHF is unfair in Slovenia as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38794	Okay. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38795	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on the projects that have been promised, not for years forgotten Dalmatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38796	Okay. The stop will be by 9.45 and I'll see you later. Thank you. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Dear counterpart Goran Aleksic answered the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38798	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have the ruling of the Grand Court in Maribor which, following the first-degree ruling, that the currency clause CHF was correct, that it was properly agreed to abolish that verdict, returned to the first degree and found that the currency clause CHF was unfair. So after France, which has courted the first state, that the currency clause CHF is unfair and thus harmful, Slovenia has now done so. The reasons are the following: the negotiation of the exchange clause CHF violates the principle of awareness and honesty of the Law on Mandatory Relations. Furthermore, consumers are said to be weaker parties in the contractual return. It is the official duty of the court to abolish the effects of unfair contractual provisions. The Court must, on its own initiative, prevent the application of unfair contractual provisions. In case the domestic currency is stable and the domestic currency in Slovenia is the euro, there is no reason to index the loans to any currency clause. Furthermore, since there are no legal restrictions for the negotiation of the bank's currency clauses, they certainly had to negotiate such restrictions in the course of the settlement of the currency clause similar to that of the interest rate limits. The obligation of awareness and honesty under the Law on Mandatory Relations implies that, in addition to the fact that the Contracting Party has to seek to realise its interest, it must also take care of the interests of the other Contracting Party, and in particular if the other Contracting Party is weaker. In addition to legal provisions, the court must also be guided by moral principles. And finally, the absolute currency risk for consumers is unacceptable. So the currency clause CHF in Slovenia has become unfair because the Supreme Court is the highest judicial institution in Slovenia and its jurisprudence applies to all other courts. I must remember the maestro of Judge Radovan Dobrinić's ruling since 4 July 2013 where he is in the judgment which is a scientific paper for me, all of what I have read here has also been established in his judgment on the 80th page. About three hours later, he read his sentence. Unfortunately, senior courts did not get into a good enough problem measure, so the CHF currency clause was declared a well-arranged currency clause. However, last year, at the end of December, our Constitutional Court decided that the review of the Supreme Court on the currency clause CHF was not based on the law, that the decisions of the EU Court were not respected, that they had not referred the previous questions to the EU Court before the final decision and therefore returned the review to the re-determination. So we expect, I hope this year's new Supreme Court ruling. There's no reason to wait too long with that decision because everything is familiar. It's no longer some new subject that needs a lot of thought. I will not enter into the measure of judgment of the new review to be passed by the Supreme Court, but it would certainly be that the Supreme Court adopts that review as soon as possible. Here I wanted to say so much and congratulate the Association of Frank from Slovenia who is doing all the work done by the Franak Association in Croatia and what the Franak Association is still doing in Croatia, and thus it has proved that Franak was on the right track, that it is actually guarding its citizens and that it is in some way safeguarding the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Congratulations and the Constitutional Court on the decisions it has made so far, and thus the Constitutional Court has shown that the institution is worthy of respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38799	Thank you, too. The second debate is the Club of Representatives of MOST Independent Lists of counterparts Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38800	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. We saw the other day in Požega was Government, with regional leaders she presented the Development Strategy by 2020. When we talk about even development, what a number of strategies bring to us is more extinct by our landscapes and Croatia is developing unequally. We therefore promise numerous projects continuously to these parts, so I will just focus on part of Dalmatia, Split-Dalmatia County as the largest county. I'll start by saying it's already from the roads because we have a highway that's been built to the south itself, it's not over yet, but we hope it gets to the south with the Pelješki bridge together, but that project hasn't been done yet, and here it's been mentioned for decades. First of all, I would say that the only project we have according to Dalmatia is to collect the highway that has now accumulated 10%, it was the other day 180 kunas from Dugopol to Zagreb, now 200 kuna, and it is one burden and essentially one very bad move towards the citizens and people of Dalmatia, like and forgotten because it will surely be less and less used by these roads and people will have to look for alternative routes to Zagreb. And I could talk about the projects, so I'm going to start with a project that's already finished, documentation that Mr. Bačić as Minister and Mr. Bebic as Parliament's president in 2009 began to build, and that's a date on the Ravca-Drvenik highway where they built 10 meters of road, had a nice pleasant picture, and it was forgotten, it stopped at that. With this project very important for the island of Hvar, where in Drvenik it would only be 20 minutes by boat to Hvar-Drvenik with a view to the back, i.e. Vrgorački end, Imotski end got an opportunity to develop tourism naturally through rural tourism and other types of tourism. However, it was a simple lie and a fraud of people in the area. And just photographing officially published on the official pages. So I'm going to mention a very important bypass that is Trogir-Omis, which should have been completed a long time ago, all governments have promised that this project will be completed, but by some estimates, if it works like this and this is how this project that creates huge plugs from Split to Omis will be completed in 70 years, because absolutely nothing is done except promise and there is no investment. The quick road connection between Sinj and Cetinski, do the crossings of the Dammatin... in the form of one Cetina province that has more inhabitants than Ličko-Senj County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I simply ran through the Transport Committee and with the Minister of Transport to move into a feasibility study that was over and that's what I care about. The cost-effectiveness estimates are that it's cost-effective and that it needs to be built. This only tells you that Dalmatia is simply an exploitation field, the collection means toll, concessions in the interests of the people of Zagreb and not the people below, fields that have no irrigation and this is the cause of the eviction of people from these parts and the purpose of that meeting where the mayor and the prime minister were not told by the mayors the truth that and since the county only in Dalmatia is 100,000 people less, our schools are empty, our children have no free textbooks, free transportation. And I expect from the mayor, Bobana, who has promised for these projects of the Split-Dalmatia County to camp in front of the government. I expect that we will all prevent and stop moving young people together, and we can contribute to respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that all children have the right, the same rights in schools. I repeat also to free textbooks and free transportation because it is simply not possible to live in these areas and I will not even talk about health services where people have no security or emergency assistance or, in particular, an older population and of course that young people are leaving. So I call once again on the prime minister to leave more free strategies, than to catch the effects, of all the current strategies that have been brought to harm in this House, unanimity of the Dalmatian Fire, the whole of Dalmatia, the island and that all together, that as executive authority together with the counties solve this problem which is a huge and burning problem, which is the eviction and extinction of Dalmatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38801	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are looking for a break on behalf of the club because of the scandalous statement by Minister Murganic, who attacked the Ombudsman for children and we want to inform the Croatian public. If he can do it without a break on behalf of the club, if he can't. Here's Mr. Hrelja, and he doesn't lead, so you'll decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38803	As far as I'm concerned, he can do it without a break, but only if there are no other interested? There isn't. Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38804	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although we started casually after this break with witty remarks and colleagues Bulja and Mr. Hrelje. This topic that I am now opening here is not funny and shows how unfortunately Croatian society and the Croatian state are when HDZ heads a government of intolerance and disregard for the continuity of institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Today we learned from the media something that we thought was behind us a long time ago. So there are institutions, there are mandates, there are people who do good work and who do bad work and there is responsibility for both governments and these people who do their duties. Today, Ms. Prosecutor for Children Ivana Milas Klaric said one scandalous thing, that the government of the Republic of Croatia is replacing her not because she is not doing a good job, not because she did not do certain things during her term as described by her job and as a child defender, but at a meeting in the Prime Minister's office, Mrs. Muraganic said that you and HDZ are being replaced by me and HDZ, we think that you are SDP. The only criterion by which Mrs. Milas Klaric should not carry out another year or two of the eight-year term of office of attorneys of all not only for children is in the Republic of Croatia. This would mean approximately that the law provides for eight years, the government and the parliament's mandate for four years, and this government derivates the law in a way that says no, it doesn't last eight years, it lasts four years. Mr. Babic I tell you what the lady says, and you tell me if it's scandalous or not, and she didn't pass the report. [[Intruder Radin: Just continue your colleague Maras.]] Mrs. Muraganic told her in front of all the witnesses, you didn't pass the report, you're not doing well. Me and HDZ think you're SDP, be careful we think you're SDP. So HDZ, Andrej Plenkovic, a european who respects standards, laws, rules and principles of EU behaviour in Croatia behaves worse than many who have acted in the 1990s when we haven't had anywhere near the standards we should have today. The lady has a mandate given to her by the Croatian Parliament and which lasts a period prescribed by the law. So neither Andrej Plenkovic nor Zoran Milanovic nor HDZ nor SDP invented it. For 8 years, there's a reason the lawyers have a mandate. And there can't be a reason, ladies and gentlemen of this kind of behavior just because someone was appointed during this or that government. By that logic, we would have resolved during the government of Zoran Milanovic a whole series of attorneys of the state auditors and all those appointed before the government of Zoran Milanovic. But by that, the state differs from the hiducia and HDZ advocates hiducia and just let's say we're from the same pack and SDP advocates state, institution and continuity. .../Intruder: terrorism. The intruder can't be heard. [[Really, you don't even understand yourself, sir. .../]] Occupy Radin: Please don't throw it out of the bench, please don't throw it out of the bench./... and it's hard to understand you and any of these people here who listen now. [[You don't understand yourself, Mr. Culey.]] You're hitting on terrorists. What does that mean now? Put your thoughts together, please. ... What I mean is, to the HDZ people, Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Murganic, do not do hiducia from Croatia, do not work a state that does not respect its institutions and does not respect its laws. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is what you do with statements like that. I think it's scandalous. I hope that the people who decide will withdraw this statement by Mrs. Murganic and I hope that we will stand behind our country and our laws. It's my wish and my ambition and mine if you want to and ask that as officials, those who run this country behave as well. Because our citizens need to see that first we respect the state in order to respect it all. This way, when it comes to HDZ alone, we show that that's not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38805	Mr. Pernar asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38806	Respect. I'd just like to ask for a break. I'd like to take a break because of the increasing number of raids. I don't know why you're getting into the word...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38807	Don't talk, I don't hear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38808	I'd like to take a break because of the increasing number of raids. Thank you, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38809	I'll give you ten minutes, and then someone's gonna come for me, so he's gonna have to discuss it. Until five o'clock break. It's a 16-50 o'clock meeting. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.00 HOURS]] Here, I'll give Mr. Pernar five minutes. [[Intruder: You can.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38811	Dear ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately not many of you have been here lately, but there's been a wave of mirage going on. So we've had as many as four raids in 12 days, the last one being in Prescinct. And today I went to an e-advertising panel of the Municipal Court in Zagreb and New Zagreb, and there is a mass of executive cases over real estate. Many people are in a position for banks to threaten them with occupancy, or for real estate to be auctioned. And the question is whether it is still a personal problem, as presented in the media of a particular family or a systemic problem. What we in the Living Wall are saying is that it's a systemic problem and here's why. Because the problem of debt indemnity is not only about a particular family but also about the state itself. The state has no place to settle its debts, is constantly in debt and only increases its debt, Agrokor is unable to repay its loans, Petrochemy Kutina is not able, highways and shipyards are also not able to return their loans, nor are the railways. A growing number of legal entities are in the situation. There was a shocking detail in the break-up of Agrokora, which is that the share of the bad credits given to entrepreneurs probably reached 50%. It means that every other kuna of credit given to entrepreneurs can't be returned. I can't come back either, so neither the state can repay the loans nor the indifference of the natural persons, so the citizens have exceeded company liquidity. I don't know how many states there are in the world where citizens owe more than businesses. And that epidemic, so blockage and execution, no one knows how it's gonna end. We're in front of a break-in, or let's just put it this way, our society is mostly behind the break-in, and the smaller part has already fallen into the break-in. So they've already stepped to ruin. And now what's going on? If the monetary system is not changed, if the loans are not done to repay what will happen? A growing number of people will simply walk into a break-in and fail. And our duty as a representative is to save those people, not those people, the whole state, because these people are in the same position as the state. Finally, when the state will not be able to repay its loans and cannot repay them will seek creditors to privatise HEP, highways and total state property, a property tax will be introduced. I must warn of a worrying trend, that the state is emerging more and more as a real estate executive. This financial system in which the central bank is a currency exchange, in which the kuna is only a bonus for the euro, in which the external debt flows into an internal one, in which people are bound by the currency clause, this financial system actually leads us to ruin. We've got a lot of problems that we've been forced exoticly to say from the outside, that's this monetary model. And if we within Croatia as a society don't come to a consensus and say people let's fight for monetary sovereignty, let's let the state have its own money, let's not be debt slaves, from our country there will be nothing left of my people. The process of eviction and reduction will continue, meaning both the total population and the total workforce and the number of students, etc., etc. I don't know people where the future leads us but, I mean, I know if nothing changes, we'll keep going the way we're going, and that's the way to ruin, that's not the way to a better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u38812	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43648	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. I'll only announce the first point because I can see that the hands are in the air. We will continue to work, the point is: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No 78. We're moving on to the agenda now. As I said: - Final bill amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 78. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. I would now like to ask the representative of the motionor, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Juru Martinovic to further explain the above-mentioned bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43650	Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Here is my honor to present on behalf of the Government this final bill of amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. What I would like to tell you outside of that protocol is that every time it enters into any law in the criminal law area, it is essentially us as a social community and you who finally adopt this law that you send a message to the Croatian public and to Croatian citizens what our relationship to crime is. So it's regulated by material laws and procedurals, in this case it's started to amend the law on criminal proceedings. The truth in one small part is the paper of our home, the Law on Criminal Procedure, in most of this amendment is essentially the adaptation of domestic legislation, to legal gains in the area of criminal law, to the acquis of the EU. Following the debate on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the CAP and related laws at the 3rd session of 29 March 2017, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act and this Final Act was drawn up in accordance with the observations, opinions and proposals made. This proposal for a law is proposed 7. Amendments and additions to the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act as well as the Amendment to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime and the termination of the Act on the Abuse of Property Benefit acquired by criminal acts and offences. And the reason for proposing a comprehensive intervention in as many as three laws is primarily the harmonisation of domestic and criminal legislation with the acquis of the EU. The four directives are in force, the 2012 Directive. 29, the European Parliament and the Council, establishing minimum standards for legal support and protection of victims of criminal offences, and replacing the 2001 Council Framework Decision. 220, but this is about the situation of the harvest in criminal proceedings. The second directive to be implemented in the Criminal Procedure Act is 2013 No. 48 The European Parliament and the Council, therefore, are entitled to access by lawyers in criminal proceedings at the very start of the proceedings, as well as in the procedure under the European arrest warrant and the right to inform the third party in the event of withdrawal of freedom of communication with third parties and consular authorities whose date of transmission is 27 November 2016 which is directly applicable. Furthermore, we are incorporating our legislation to the 2014 Directive. 24. The European Parliament and the Council are talking about freezing and confiscation of property benefit cases achieved by criminal acts in the EU. And the fourth directive is no. 62 of 2014 Since 15 May 2014, the European Parliament and the Council have therefore been talking about criminal and legal protection of the euro and other currencies against counterfeiting. Therefore, this first directive, in relation to the revised provisions of this Directive, is transposed even though the 2008 CAP already contains a series of provisions governing the rights of victims whose victims have a very high degree of protection of their rights, the transposition of the provisions of that Directive still requires intervention in the first row of the provision of Chapter 5. The 2008 CAP, but most importantly, in the very definition of the victim and these changes are done. The second Directive of the European Parliament of 2013 is the right to access a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in proceedings on the basis of a European arrest warrant, as well as the right to inform a third party in the event of confiscation of freedom and communication with third parties and consular authorities. Transposing the provisions of this Directive requires a certain intervention in the mentioned 2008 CAP law. During the drafting of the legal text, it is concluded that it is necessary to intervene in Article 208, which regulates the issue of informed talks with suspects who, in their essence, represent an examination within the meaning of the provisions of the Directive, so as to enable suspects to actively exercise their right to access the defender. As a matter of particular importance, there was also the need to regulate situations where, during the collection of informed notices, there were grounds for doubting the initiation of a criminal offence in view of the fact that from that moment on, the person becomes a suspect and acquires all the procedural rights that belong to it in accordance with the Directive. Although the directive does not impose an obligation on the evidence force of those studies, after extensive and long-term discussions on this issue, during which they were examined and resolved from a Comparative Law solution, most EU Member States do not know at all the Institute of Information Talks with the suspect, i.e. do not distinguish the suspects' formal and informal questioning, but the suspect's trial is conducted with the required warnings and, in the vast majority, the police can conduct tests on a suspect who has a force of proof. It has been concluded that any investigation of a suspect in front of or without a defence attorney, provided that the suspect has been duly alerted and has given up his right to give power of evidence in the following procedure. Given that part of the violations of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which have been established by the European Court of Human Rights in relation to the conduct of the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia, by the police in order to ensure that the procedural rights of suspects are respected and possible infringements are prevented, it is proposed that, as an additional guarantee of the legality of police conduct and the evidence of the investigation during the subsequent procedure, the examination of suspects is prescribed to be recorded in front of the police by an audio-video recording device. Audio-video recording would include a full examination, including a lesson on rights and a possible explicit denial of the rights of defender. The third directive therefore speaks of freezing and confiscation of property benefit cases which have been achieved by criminal acts in the EU. In relation to this Directive, criminal procedural law was necessary to transpose the provisions relating to the process of confiscation of property benefit on the basis of a conviction and confiscation without a judgment under Article 4 of the Directive, the provisional measures so-called “deposal of the property benefit” so-called “indemnity insurance”. the freezing of assets pursuant to Article 7 of the Directive and the measures to ensure the active participation in the protection of the rights of the defendants and other persons in respect of which temporary measures are applied to ensure the confiscation of the property benefit, i.e. safeguard measures referred to in Article 8 of the Directive. That substance is currently subject to more regulation by the Law in the process of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by criminal acts and offences, in the follow-up to the law on the confiscation of that benefit but is partly regulated by the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. It should be noted that although the law on confiscation was adopted in the first instance with the aim of making it a common legislative regulatory procedure for the confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminal acts and infringements, i.e. to achieve a full, clearer, simpler regulation of this procedure, the matter continued to be regulated in other laws and the stated objective was not achieved. In particular, in the middle of the fact that the confiscation of property benefit remained partially regulated in other regulations in practice, the process of confiscation of property benefit could also be implemented without calling on the Deduction Act which led to the rare application of that law in practice. In light of the above, and following a broad debate on this issue with representatives of the professional public, the Proposer decided to move individuals to the core of the key provisions of the 2008 law on benefit-absorbing in the 2008 CAP. In addition to the substantive amendments to certain provisions, it is intended to bring together the legal regulation of the process of confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminal acts, i.e. illegal action in one regulation. It is the motion that the unification of key provisions relating to the confiscation of property benefit achieved by the 2008 criminal act in the CAP avoid inequality in their application, but also current examples of practices that show that, depending on the specific case and practice of a court, competition with the provisions of the Law on the confiscation of the CAP and the Penal Code, which significantly regulate the same matter, for example, by calling on the Abduction Act and the KZ Act from the 11th time the Decision on the Abduction of the property benefit achieved by the criminal act of confiscation of the property benefit and without the proposal of an authorised prosecutor, by calling on Article 5. KZ and stuff. These examples point to the conclusion that the Deprivement Act has not yet achieved its primary objective, which is basically the reason for the proposed amendments to the Retraction Act, to transpose these amendments into the CAP in order to avoid legal uncertainty in the criminal sphere, i.e. when deciding on criminal prosecution. In particular, with regard to the freezing of property benefit, it will be prescribed that a temporary measure can be established before the criminal proceedings are initiated or the submission of a proposal to confiscate the property benefit. Until confirmation of the indictment, determination of the hearing on the basis of a private suit or submission of a proposal for confiscation of the property benefit, a temporary measure may take a maximum of two years, and thereafter for a maximum period of 6 days from the delivery to the State lawyer of the notification of the power of the decision deriving the property benefit, which has been taken away. The two-year term doesn't run during the suspension of the investigation. It is expected that this solution will, to the greatest extent possible, increase the effectiveness of the asset-absorbing system achieved by criminal activity. In order to achieve parallel with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, it is envisaged to adopt an amendment to the Law on UskoK, the Law on Abduction, hence, the Law on Violation. By way of parallel effect, all these three laws in one place of the 2008 CAP, as an organic law, will bring together all provisions concerning the confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminal act, in relation to all criminal offences, including those in the catalogue of Article 21. It's the USCOD Act. The entry into force of the USKOK Act would cease to apply, therefore the entry into force of the Law amending the USKOK Act would cease to apply provisions governing the provision of forced confiscation of the assets of income or property resulting from a criminal offence. As a result, they will become redundant at the time of the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, which will bring together all relevant provisions on the procedure for proposing and laying down temporary measures to ensure the confiscation of the property benefit which will also be applied in matters within the jurisdiction of the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime. In the light of the Law on the termination of the Act on the Abuse of Assets, the transfer to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of the Law on the Abuse of Benefits, which they enter into the Procedural Law, has made the existence of a special Act on the Abuse of Assets Procedure moreover, the matter in question as an adhesion procedure now becomes part of an organic law, thus ensuring the full uniform application of these provisions in practice. So we have a fourth directive of the European Parliament and of the Council in criminal law protection of the euro. As regards the transposition of the provisions of this Directive, it was necessary to intervene in Article 334 as regards the Directive which applies only to the matter of criminal procedural law in order to transpose Article 9 of that Directive. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. 2011 Penal Code In the rest of that provision, the cited directive has already been transposed into the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act, as Article 334(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. 2008 CAP as one of the offences for which it is possible to determine the application of specific evidence actions listed and the crime of counterfeiting the money referred to in Article 274. KZ from the 11th year. The remaining changes are the result of the needs identified by the practice of removing perceived ambiguities and harmonising with relevant national law. The following changes should be highlighted as some of the more important ones. So, we have moved from this sphere to adapting the Criminal Procedure Act to those directives and we are entering this sphere which we here have, therefore, changed autonomously, therefore and manifested our relationship to crime in Croatia. Therefore, it is proposed to amend the guarantee institute in such a way that the investigation prison could be abolished and replaced by a guarantee only if it is determined because the person suspected of committing a crime on the run or if the particular circumstances suggest a risk of escape. The position of the Ministry of Justice is that the guarantee institute as a measure to ensure the presence of the defendants in criminal proceedings should certainly be regulated significantly more restrictive than the existing legal solution. Therefore, a solution is proposed that the guarantee institute cannot replace an investigative prison in cases of conflictal danger in the impact on witnesses, destruction of evidence, interactional dangers. Therefore, in the face of the danger of repeating the crime and the danger of disturbing the public in criminal acts for which it is possible to express a long - term prison. And the circumstances of the actions are particularly difficult. It was also pointed out by the Constitutional Court in its 2015 decision of 1451. It is proposed to the police's obligation to spot, therefore the other thing, this is about guarantees, I think to the expert public, but it is clear to you who have been following the amendments to the law that one restriction is being done here in relation to the possibility of using the guarantee institute, as a substitute for an investigative prison, when the prosecution bodies decide, so the defendants deprive him of liberty and keep him in the investigative prison for reasons to ensure so-called. a breakthrough, i.e. an interest in the process. Therefore, this possibility has been narrowed down in the current legal solution, so the guarantee has been guaranteed as a substitute for an investigative prison could be determined in all investigative prison reasons, which is under point 1. is this risk of escape, the second influence on witnesses and the concealment of traces, the 3rd repetition of part and the 4th due to the difficult circumstances of the work. So, now it's guaranteed, it's only going to be possible to offer for situations when it comes to reasons, from the dangers of escape, that's something we've had before, so here it is, this is the society's reaction to some kind of practice that has caused attention, the legislator decided on a solution like this. Therefore, the second amendment refers to police actions, so it is proposed that the police be prompted to inform the state's attorney of the results taken within 24 hours. To replace the obligation of timely notification of the actions taken, it is therefore intended to speed up police actions and increase its effectiveness, reducing unnecessary administration to the least possible extent, while retaining the control of the State Attorney over the actions conducted by the police in the previous procedure. It is also more clearly prescribed by the police authorities to take on their own urgent evidence of the operation, in such a way as to immediately inform the State's attorney, except for carrying out the evidence, temporary confiscation of cases and investigations, for criminal offences, for which the sentence is prescribed. The news is that the state's attorney could take urgent evidence actions and leave it to the police, which points out that the Ministry of Interior and the State's Attorney's Office, are in agreement with this arrangement, the more co-operation the two details are detailed in the protocol on their mutual co-operation. In relation to the work of state attorneys, an amendment aimed at further balancing the request for the effectiveness of criminal prosecution with a request for protection of defence rights is proposed, thus introducing the Institute for Enlargement of Investigation, which knew the Law on Criminal Procedures of 97' and which is necessary to re-securitise the need for the day-to-day application of the 2008 Penal Procedure Act in the work of State Attorneys. In addition, a simpler concept is proposed, the extension of the investigation to disburse state lawyers from administration, during the formal extension of the investigation, and the recursive deadlines for the taking of the indictment are extended. Furthermore, they are a detailed institute for the withdrawal of the indictment and the return of the indictment, whose subjugation in practice has led to some confusion. The news is that in the completion of the I.D., the return of the indictment to the state's attorney and the withdrawal of the indictment is being brought in by judicial control. On the contrary, in relation to the way the bill was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in the first reading, it gives up the introduction of a return institute in the previous state in favour of the state's attorney. It is predicted that the possibility... the criminal proceedings in the case where the request for renewal is filed on the basis of a final judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which determines the violation of the rights and freedoms laid down in the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, provided that the breach of the Convention has affected the outcome of the procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the injury or its consequences may be corrected in the renewed procedure, the amendment in question in each case will seek to ensure that the renewal of the procedure depends on the circumstances, whether the violation of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has affected the outcome of the domestic procedure, and whether infringements of the Convention may be corrected in a repeated procedure, to the extent possible, restoring that stage of the infringement. It is therefore provided that the court in the resolution allowing the renewal of the criminal proceedings will determine that the proceedings are to be returned to the proceedings before the panel or in the hearing or in the case of an appeal or exceptional legal remedies, depending on where the European Court of Justice established the infringement. It is predicted that before the Supreme Court's file is delivered, the first-degree court will submit the response to the request to the convict and his defender. This intervention, which was necessary to respect the views of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which called for the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, reiterated the understanding that the violation of the principle of procedural equality of parties, i.e. the colloquitically speaking about the equality of arms and the right to contradictory proceedings, existed in the event that the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia did not provide the defendant with an indication of the State's attorneyship of the Republic of Croatia for insight and response. It is indicated that this indication of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, in its legal nature, represents a reasoned opinion on the basis of the applicant. This is what we before the hearing had the need to tell you parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43651	Thank you. It's two replicas. The first one's a colleague of Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43652	Dear Secretary, you have said that the people should be shown what this criminal procedure is, however, this is 7 changes since 98, whether you have the effects of our criminal proceedings, on the law on war profit and privatisation of all the crimes that have happened to the Croatian people at all, or whether they have been processed or not, and that what you are saying now, as you now mention in the amendments, this guarantee has been decided that there is not every right to guarantee, one who has to be free, who does not have to go, but this confiscation of property benefit that any law today would be taken away from the benefit that has been robbed in these 25 years through war profit and privatisation, today Croatia would be the richest state. Tell me whether the effects of all the laws mean the Ministry of Justice, whether there are any effects on all these processes of all these robberies of our assets, companies, all good, whether they have the effects of how much property has been taken from it is all the fact that in 2010, the Law on the non-depreciation of war profit and privatisation was passed, means the privatisation that took place in crime, however, the Constitutional Court in the Sanader case has essentially shown that this is an illegal law. How do these things correct in the Croatian society that have inflicted the greatest evil, worse than the conquerors of the Turkish Empire have so far been worse than the Serb army in the Homeland War? How to solve this key problem to return the seized property to the people i.e. to those who created it? It means whether they have any effect in this law, and most of all the DORH I have personally filed criminal charges against war profiting until today no solution is made except that these are now the richest people in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43653	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43654	Dear Representative Bulj. So I respect all your fears, all your fears and you speak from one broader social aspect of the good thing. But I must tell you that criminal law is one of the spheres of which I have initially told you about, therefore, the reaction of society to crime. These procedural laws that we are changing today that we are actually proposing that the Parliament adopt and amend the tools that we are giving to the judicial authority, which is one specifically separate third branch of the government and you as lawmaker and I am at this point belonging to the executive authority simply cannot influence how they will apply the law, but we give them good tools. This one desire of human, universal in all that this is rapidly sanctioned to immediately return property is something that through this Code of Criminal Procedure is essentially the essence of the Criminal Procedure Act is one balance that society seeks to achieve between the desire for a swift and effective prosecution of all perpetrators of criminal acts of detection and prosecution and, of course, the confiscation of any benefit from a criminal offence. But on the other hand, we are a democratic society, we are a member of the family of EU states and we have high standards of protection of human rights and guarantees for defendants in criminal proceedings, they are protected by the presummation of innocence, and this one balance through the legislative framework has to be constantly achieved and this law on criminal proceedings is on that track. So those who have followed better, understand this change, and you see that there are some things here that strengthen the repressive apparatus, so in these scans, in the fact that the evidence of the first investigation by the police will be considered evidence in the course of the procedure, and on the other hand, you have some guarantees about the rights of the defender to approach in time. So that is the balance that is constantly trying to achieve and that is the eternal drive that we will work through legislative frameworks as well as all democratic societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43655	Thank you. Second of all, dear colleague Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43656	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Martinovic. I'm glad all the first-reading comments in this second reading were appreciated, and they refer to the length of the investigation. In fact, ten years ago when the provisions concerning the investigation were amended, the main argument with the transfer of the judicial investigation and the change of it was that the investigation would take place within the short term. And unfortunately, in the first reading before us were suggestions to extend these deadlines. If it is not possible to increase the effectiveness of the investigation within the deadlines set, it may be considered that the new provisions of the law or the new law which will be adopted next time will consider changing the whole investigation rather than extending the deadlines already set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43657	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43658	Thank you for your suggestion. Of course, I'd say both the professional public and I personally feel the same way you do. I have now said two key requirements and the key expectations of the Society of Criminal Procedure Act are effective persecution and, on the other hand, maximum protection of personal freedoms and the rights of persons who become suspects, and then the defendants are constantly looking for balance. We are reluctant to talk about personal aspirations and desires as it should appear. In my view, the investigation is something that has been changed in the Croatian criminal justice system, and I think that the time when it was before the courts was something more effective and there was less delay after that, given that this way of investigation conducted by the state's attorneys and the USKOK has one deficiency, which is so-called. Contradictivity when there is no counsel present in their actions throughout the investigation. So it happens that all these same actions are re-emerged from the procedural necessity so that the other side can declare that all these evidence is being re-implemented. I think there are some shortcomings and handicaps that when the final proposal for a new criminal procedure is done, which is being advocated in the professional and general public, I would say better balanced.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43659	Thank you. We're moving on to the board's reports now. Do any of the board presidents want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first came to the word of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac on behalf of the Living Walls Club and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43660	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have today's amendments to the Penal Code in a second reading. Most of what I was going to say about those changes I said on the first reading. And since here in the second reading practically nothing has changed, we stay with our attitude. So the "Live Wall" club, which is that we're not going to support this law, these amendments to the law. We are told here today, rather said, that these amendments to criminal law 7th in a row, so 7th in a row will enable effective and effective persecution of criminals, especially those accused of the most serious crimes, but in practice we see that it simply does not work. If I should just remind you of the freshest examples, today is the halved sentence of Paravinja, we all know who he is and he will be, he will be able to request his release in four years. So what kind of message does our ministry, our judiciary send us? He's sending us a message, dear people. Arm yourselves or flee from Croatia. We also have an example of a man who has devastated Croatia, sold our energy sector to foreigners who today poses as a writer, free to walk around Zagreb, smarts us in the media, and will probably be a candidate for the Parliament again, that is the efficiency that our judiciary is witnessing daily. This 7th amendment of the Penal Code would be better, of course, to write a new one, as you mentioned yourself, but obviously not. He further protects large criminals, further protects those who rob, further protects those who throw this country on a beggar stick and further worsens the position of small people who are trying to exercise their rights to the courts. I remind you once again of the article added 43a and Article 208a that practically make an inversion of the victim and the perpetrator of the crime where the victim must therefore be artificial. So instead of being an expert criminal, we're going to be hanging the victim. And I remind you that even at this point, about 30 to 40 percent of the victims are giving up any testimony from simple fear, so in the end, they will suffer the consequences of that trial and with this, this yet, this skill that is now being introduced as a mandatory belief that this percentage will be even greater. Eventually, the victims will be found guilty of beating them up, being robbed, raped, declared mentally ill, unbalanced, and especially in cases where they object to a political powermaker or a rich man who is involved with politicians. The status of the victim has also been violated by the new definition of the victim, the injured and the suspects under Article 202. The CAP is all to the detriment of procedural and material rights of victims, and in particular to the damage to the victim who has taken over the role of damages as a prosecutor who has independently continued the prosecution that is being witnessed by Articles 57 to 59 of the proposed articles. The new changes will make it impossible to carry out an effective previous procedure and investigate investigations because the perpetrators of the crime will therefore be allowed to have lawyers with them from the first moment on. Who will be able to pay them will be able to have 3, 5, 10, as much as anyone will and in fact protect themselves from finding out the specifics of which someone is suspected. The Proposer proposes a law that will not allow a comprehensive, quick, thorough, zealous, careful and meaningful previous procedure. In addition, the secrecy of the process is abolished, and this practice comes directly against European legal standards but also with democratic and civilizational values. This law, such a change of law directly endangers constitutional order and the rule of law. I know that I have now spoken to most of the MPs here without them listening to me, just as I was saying when it was the concession law, just as it was the law of CETA, the same as when it was the law on GMOs, about sending Croatian soldiers to the Russian border. But for the sake of Croatian citizens, I am obliged to say that all these laws we adopt go to their harm. Some of the MPs and people who have influence in politics will understand what changes to this Penal Code are like every time they see its consequences or worse when they feel them on their own skin. I'm sorry that this is so, I'm sorry that this law has already been predetermined that it must be passed, that tomorrow the representatives will mechanically raise their hands for him, as always. So we have 76 hands that will vote this out without a problem. But I repeat once again, it was my duty here to say that this law is harmful and that the representatives of the Living Wall hope and others will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43661	We have one replica, dear colleague Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43662	Your Honor. Comrade Bunjac, I must support you in some of your words but I can't help but mention that I couldn't not stand up without talking about what was mentioned and that's the victim. The biggest victims of Croatian justice are victims of the Homeland War, victims of war aggression against which a war crime has never been committed, which is in some drawers, so we know that in the past year only 23 proceedings were committed for war crimes, so it takes another 200 years to bring all those who deserve to come before him. And I can't here without mentioning two cases in Croatia for war crimes. One is Tomislav Mercep, an organizer of the defence of the city of Vukovar, a Croatian defender, who is in prison in Croatia for war crimes that he did not commit but members of his unit, allegedly his commander, and because of commanding responsibility, because of the failure to prevent and sanction what his members of his unit may have committed, which was not writtenly determined that he was his commander, I am coming to the same, similar or much greater crimes in the city of Vukovar, was released from criminal charges for the war crimes of Vojislav Stanimiric, who, behold, did not attempt to determine whether he was a defence commander. The release of the town of Vukovar from the Croats, whether at all guilty or not, has not been tried, although there is still a living witness, a victim who wants to testify but the question of whether justice will come to its doorstep.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43663	Thank you, colleague Culey. Replication response, comrade Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43664	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Culej, you are right when you claim that many war crimes in Croatia have not yet been prosecuted, now it has been 26 or little years since these crimes were committed, and as far as we can see, justice is very slow and, as a rule, is not available. Of course, what has been mentioned that people are dying and that it is very likely that many of these criminals will eventually not be even punished, which is a very bad message to this society, which awaits healing, which has really helped him to turn to the future. But here is the case of a war profit trial which was also very large in Croatia, according to the information I officially received from the Ministry of Justice, a single war profiter was sentenced in Croatia. Now, one is condemned and it is therefore, that there really is a war profiter in Croatia, I believe that we would be the most honorable state in the history of the world, but as you know the truth is the other way around, in us this war profiting has taken a great wave, why they are not condemned, I also don't know. These items exist, they're documented, they're standing in someone's drawer, whose drawer they're standing in, which is the interests of these people I'm not going to speak here right now, but obviously these amendments to the criminal law won't contribute to a faster clearing, they're just cosmetic, I think political will is needed, but at this point it just doesn't exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43665	Thank you. We move on to the discussion of SDP's Club of Representatives, a distinguished colleague of Peja Grbin's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43666	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Although that may be unusual, I'm going to have to start by looking back at what my esteemed predecessor was saying. Dear fellow MPs have read this bill. This law is neither secret nor unknown to the Croatian public. Public debate on this law may not be under P.Z.E. code. 78, already under another, under which it was made there in 2015 and before that, was first held two years ago. So, this law has been very much talked about, and many MPs have been actively involved in its creation by making comments, suggestions and suggestions, and this law that is now before us, is the fruit of such cooperation and work. Please keep the qualifications you have presented for yourself for the second time if you do not have a valid foothold for them. But let's go back to the content of the law. Subject law is, of course, in significant compliance with EU law, but not in all its content. And that comes to what's his biggest problem. And that's the problem that since 2009, since the law on criminal proceedings that we are now applying, we've had a whole series of amendments and additions. Only those who are present today have 137 articles, and the number is even higher because a number of other articles are added to some articles of this law. When we add to this the Constitutional Court's decision, which abolished some fifty of the provisions of the then CAP, it is a law that has nothing to do with what we adopted ten years ago. So I think that the main message that the Croatian Parliament has to take today is not the one that refers to these changes and complements but the one that requires us to go into full recovery of our criminal procedure system. When we adopted this Penal Procedure Act ten years ago, that is, when we adopted what is at the core of this law that we are discussing today, we crossed from one system that was usually called in Croatia and associated citizens to something else. But we've moved from the inquisition system to the acoustic process system. Today, in my humble opinion, it is necessary to re-evaluate whether the transition from the acoustic to the inquisitor procedure for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia was good for their rights and obligations. In order to explain what this is all about, we're dealing with a situation in which the investigation was conducted by the court, the investigative judge turned into a model of Angolan law in which the investigation was entrusted to the state's attorney. With all due respect as someone who came to the assembly bench from law and not once defended someone in criminal proceedings, I believe that such a system in Croatia has come up with something called an inequality of arms in legal terminology. So the weapons that have the defense and the weapons that have been charged have come to an disproportionate extent. About 250 years ago and more than one outstanding British lawyer said that in criminal proceedings, it was better to have 10 freed criminals than to have an innocent man who suffered because he was proven guilty of something he didn't commit. I believe it may be a bit of a strict qualification, but the democratic state must rest on it. I'm afraid the aquisate procedure as we now have is not going in that direction. Why? Because I will still agree in part with what my colleague Bunjac used to say before me, but first of all, I will agree on this on the basis of my own experience of acting in a criminal justice system and representing the court of persons. The system that we now have fees more wealthy citizens at the heart of those who do not have the means to form a serious legal team that will be followed by one serious investigative team that will be needed to determine the facts in the criminal proceedings. And that's why I'm proposing I'm not going to formulate it into a conclusion, but I suggest that we together send a strong message as the Ministry of Justice to proceed with the development of a whole new criminal procedure, namely the new Criminal Procedure Act, which will be directed, if not to return to the inquisition procedure, and then at least to carry out the evaluation of whether the acoustic procedure in this form that we now have in our criminal law has brought the results we expected. And to point out what the results are, I will use the report of the President of the Supreme Court for 2016 but also in 2015 that we have discussed on committees so far. I hope that soon we will also attend the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament which clearly shows the increase of unresolved cases in the first-degree criminal trial before municipal courts. So, after years of reduction in the number of cases, after years in which we have been alert in a first-degree criminal trial, we have come into a situation where backlogs are being reassessed, while in all others, or almost all other areas of the trial, we have a backlog and a reduction in the number of pending cases. So that's something I'd like to talk about first. It is also related to these amendments and to the Criminal Procedure Act as a whole. In particular, I must point out that we are extremely pleased that the proposer adopted a whole series of remarks that have been highlighted both in the committee debate and in the debate at the plenary session itself. For example, in Article 35 relating to the lesson on the rights of the detainees, the article 72 refers to the fact that the conduct of the evidence shop and the examination of the defendants in certain situations cannot be entrusted to the investigator but must be the task of a state attorney or, for example, to determine that the State's attorney cannot extend the investigation by 12 but by 6 months. That's all praiseworthy. Given what we pointed out when we first read this law, the SDP's Club of Representatives will support this law. This does not mean, however, that we have no objections to him. The first is and we are still pleased that at least part of our remark has been adopted, which refers to the High Court of Penalty. Therefore, reading was scheduled for the High Criminal Court to begin work in 1.1.2018. There are no conditions for that, it's a fact. We don't have that kind of thing in the Court Act. So we don't have the legal framework necessary to begin the work of that court. On the other hand, in the 2017 budget, we did not foresee any means to allow the High Criminal Court to carry out preparatory actions and to begin work in 1.1.2018. In this context, we accept the fact that the start of the work of the High Criminal Court was delayed for 1 January 2020, which was discussed by the minister during the hearing at the Committee of Resolution several weeks ago. However, I ask again that those years that we have left until 1 January 2020 be used to see if we need the High Criminal Court at all. I mentioned the report from the Supreme Court President. Unlike the first-degree criminal trial, where we see an increase in pending cases in that section relating to the number of cases before the Supreme Court, which are of a continuous nature, we see a reduction of not only unsolved cases but also a burden on the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia by deciding in criminal matters. So in this context, given that the High Criminal Court should add extremely high powers because we are also going to unify what criminal courts are doing today, under the hat of a criminal trial, we believe that we need to consider whether we need such a court at all. And the last thing I'm going to talk about is the question of entering into force of this law. Like I said 137 articles. In addition to 5 or 6 articles which are subject to the entry into force of the other provisions of this Act on 1 December 2017, 8 days from the date of publication in the N.N. So today we are discussing this, tomorrow we will vote in the Croatian Parliament, and it will come into force and start applying in 20 days. This system we have here, I'm afraid it's not possible to implement within such short notice. I will therefore submit one amendment proposing to postpone the application of the whole law on 1 December 2017 so that all those who will have to apply this law in practice have enough time to prepare for it. Thank you very much. I apologize once again, I should repeat, and perhaps at first I should have said, the SDP's club certainly supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43667	Thank you, too. Three are replicas. He's the first to be respected colleague of Orepic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43668	Your Honor, Mr. President. The MP, Mr. Grbin, would join the effort that this law does not give all the answers that should be given, that is, retaining the inertness of the criminal proceedings and it is very important for me to approach as soon as possible in a comprehensive definition of criminal conduct as possible, a new one, because every law should have an intensification to solve some social problem. It simply does not comply with the social situation and should provide quick answers to problems such as war crimes, war profit, such as profits from criminal privatisation. Indeed, if we want the people to believe in the system as soon as possible, in the state, these are the answers that must be obtained through this law as soon as possible. Here you would draw attention, too, to one thing, that the surveillance of police work by the DORH's is a good way, everything is fine, but simply at this point the DORH simply is not professionally able to monitor the resulting procedures by the police at all levels. Once again when a DORH procedure is applied, the police continue to operate, so, in that sense, it needs to be significantly intervened in that space. And we just have to get into a situation, and we've talked about taking away property. It's very important, I know there's a legal possibility at this point to do this, to take away property without defining the criminal part, but it's so complicated, and I think there's a huge space, to contribute to efficiency, to bring the disproportionateness of property and income into some sort of basis for taking away property and the compensation of evidence without a criminal part, and to gradually define a process that the person who has that disproportionately proves where his property came from. I think we'd get to what's the ultimate goal, which is justice, very quickly, that way. Here, in those few intensities I think this law should contain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43669	Thank you. A response to the replica of a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43670	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Orepic, I'll be on my way from the end of your presentation. With this last thing you're saying, not only in principle, but they can agree absolutely and in substance, but it's not the matter of criminal law, it's the matter of what should be covered by tax regulations, and then when such a disproportionate finding is that something else is behind it, then it's the moment in which the IRS should, at the expense of such disproportionately, initiate criminal proceedings against the perpetrator. In everything else, it should be a tax procedure. As for the supervision of the State's Attorney's Office of the Police, and here I agree with you, however, we are now experiencing another serious problem. When this new criminal treatment system was implemented, even before 2009, we set out to strengthen the capacity of the state's attorney's office, but we went as if we didn't want to do it. These people in the State's Attorney's Office have really tried and trained and prepared for work, but they work in conditions where they can't meet what we put before them. And I'm not just talking about human beings here, I'm talking about something much more ground floor. I'm talking about that the spatial working conditions aren't adequate, I'm saying that the equipment they have is not adequate to meet everything they need in their work, and I'm afraid we put a huge challenge ahead of them, and we didn't give them tools that should enable them to answer that question properly. And now I'm gonna stop because time won't let me go any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43671	But there's two replicas. So there'll be time. He's a friend of yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43672	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Grbin, you were saying that there are a whole series of pending cases in Croatia, so I'm wondering, what happens to the judge, what sanctions do a judge not solve his case within the time limit? And I'm also interested in whether it's possible to sue such a judge, for example, because some say he's not only damaged me as a damage, but in fact too long a court dispute is considered a violation of human rights. I wonder how it is possible that Croatia has an average of 5 times as many judges as Austria, while first-degrees are brought twice as fast in Austria? What are the causes of such an apartment? You say you're working very hard on these legal questions, so if you have an answer to this question of mine, please answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43673	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43674	Thank you, Mr. President. Your question is the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac is extremely casual. You say the judge didn't solve the case within the time limit. In what time, what subject? Dear fellow Members, there are various cases and there cannot be a parallel between, for example, the damages I seek because of a car accident and cases, for example, where the contractor and contractor are slow about whether the works are carried out in accordance with the contract or not. One of these items will be completed in six or seven months because it may only require medical skill to determine the extent of damage while in the case of complicated construction works, it is necessary to carry out an audible skill from construction, electrical, engineering, etc. The occasional saying that cases are not solved within the time limit is as dangerous for society as the flatulence to say that there is no problem in the judiciary. There are problems in the judiciary, but these problems need to be dealt with systematically without a flat-rate charge. When we talk about this, for example, about the protection that has been available to citizens for a number of years now, there are mechanisms at their disposal that they can and can get damage in case their case is wrongly resolved for a long time. And it's been working neatly for years. As for judges or, for example, state lawyers who do not work their cases, there are two institutions, one is called the State Judicial Council, which is why today I am talking about this topic, instead of my colleagues Milenic, the second is the State Attorney's Council, who regularly hold cases on their bodies concerning the determination of the responsibilities of those state lawyers and those judges who have failed to fulfil their duties, among other things and in a way that they do not solve cases within some appropriate time limits.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43675	Thank you. 12 seconds then you saved now I've returned 7 to you. Comrade Culey, third replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43676	Your Honor. I understand the position of my colleague Grbin towards me although we are on the same Justice Committee, you may also think that it is not my place because of my lack of knowledge of flat-rate speech as well as of the Bunjce or unfounded qualifications, even for those acts for which there may be evidence and have, but they are not respected in the courts and despite what I am unlike you, and in some cases you are witnesses of events where we have a lot of knowledge of what happened, what happened, what happened and what was not being prosecuted and for which reasons has not been prosecuted. So you're also talking about the actions of judges and the conduct of some cases with a time-out, what does Bunjac say, when will the judge be called to account for an act that is not finished? Never. In what time period should this work be solved? Never. We all know we have a lot to do with war crimes, we have criminals in Belgrade, and we can't possibly process them in absentia, I learned yesterday. And can we free them or reduce their punishment in absentia? I know one case of a certain Arsic Boban who killed two old men out of kindness on Miljevac plato. And you know who tried him? The Court in Knin 3.5, so two days before the Storm with the evidence it had, and our judiciary in the absence of Croatia condemned him to release him for five years in the same absence. And he's still free. [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43677	Thank you. A response to the replica of a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43678	The esteemed colleague was probably a lapus when you said 3.5 days before the storm. Well, it could hardly have been 3.5 days before the Storm because if I'm not mistaken, the Storm was in August, but it's less important now. My colleague, I didn't get your line very well except in the part where you refer to something I didn't even talk about, and that's the question of whether you belong on the Justice Committee or not. It was your party's political decision, and my position on whether you belong on the Justice Committee or not I will express it in the following way would never have occurred to me to be a member of the Committee on Agriculture or the Committee on Health because I have absolutely no idea about it from a respected colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43679	Please. We continue the debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Marko Šimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43680	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable state secretary with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In its opening statement, the Proposer put the focus on the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, but also referred to the following two laws that we have in the debate today, so I will set my own debate in similar contexts with the gravity of the Criminal Procedure Act and its amendments. The Penal Procedure Act was passed in 2008, it came into effect on 1 September 2011, and has now gone through six major and minor changes. In one procedure, we changed some 40 to 50 articles of this law. Many will therefore wonder what kind of law is so often changed and who can follow it all. In fact, the procedural laws most often change when the moment matures, and it is precisely for those entities where the law is most often and most frequently applied. Therefore, the most common of these entities is that there are some proposals for amending and supplementing these procedural laws. Procedural laws are a living body that changes, adapts to material laws and the need to implement legislative regulations in a quick, efficient and transparent manner, having firstly the protection of all the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms both victims, damages and all other parties in the process. These 7th amendments to the law are also conditional on the implementation of 4 directives under the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that a whole series of these provisions that are now implemented in our legal system have already been applied. But we believe that these proposals of the final laws that we are discussing are even better and more precise and much more broadly defined and determined. Before, we knew who the victim was in the process and who the damage victim, but according to the new definition, was also a natural person who was also directly affected by the crime committed and who suffered the physical and mental consequences, property damage or significant violation of fundamental rights and freedoms, so on. direct victim. The victim is considered a spouse and an extramarital partner, a life partner and an informal life partner, and a descendant if they are not present, an ancestor, a brother and a sister, the person whose death was directly caused by the crime and the person to whom she was required under the law to abstain. It's an indirect victim. The distinction of this particular direct and indirect victim is one of the requirements of the directive and newspapers in the Criminal Procedure Act, which will also eliminate the ambiguities which the present definition has caused in practice in respect of which all persons are considered victims in the current 2008 Criminal Procedure Act. During the first reading of the bill, there was a lot of debate on the position and status of the victim in the process in view of the victim's assessment. We believe that the proposer has fully clarified the definition of the victim in procedural actions and the way in which the body is protected and treated in the process against the victim. Thus, the new Article 43a shall be prescribed by the authority conducting the examination of the victim, the police, the State Attorney's Office and the Court of Justice to carry out an individual assessment of the victim, its content and method of implementation prior to the examination. It has been established that in some cases it will be necessary and desirable in a quality and comprehensive way to carry out an assessment of the individual needs of each victim and method of access. It is also concluded that it is necessary to intervene in Article 208. The 2008 Penal Procedure Act, which regulates the issue of informed talks with suspects who, in their essence, represent an examination within the meaning of the provisions of the directive, requires that suspects be given an active right to access the defence. In particular, the need to regulate situations in which a person is found to have fundamental doubts about the initiation of a criminal offence in the course of the collection of information was found to exist. In view of the fact that from that moment on, that person becomes a suspect and acquires all the rights which belong to it in accordance with the Directive. As a club, we also support the applicant's decision to leave the deadlines for the investigation in those settings as they were before the first reading, because this better achieves the objectives of the process. It is important to note that the applicant has accepted another important remark or proposal made in the first reading of the draft law, and this has been followed by the legislation which the applicant has now adapted to the possibilities of implementing new methods and methods of data collection and processing when carrying out informed talks and deadlines in certain or certain stages of the procedure. It should be pointed out that these draft laws propose amendments to the Institute of Guarantees as a measure of procedural coercion, which limit the possibility of applying the guarantee only to the situation where the investigation of the defendant is determined by the basis of Article 123(1) of the risk of escape. Therefore, the amendments exclude the possibility of applying a replacement guarantee for an investigative prison which has been determined because of the Colombian danger and the iteration hazard of Article 123(3) of point (a) of Article 1(3). The law on criminal proceedings. That amendment is the result of the legal position expressed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in its decision of 9 April 2015, which clearly follows the conclusion that the guarantee is no longer an effective measure which could achieve the same purpose as an investigative prison which was determined for the purpose of the conduct of the conflict and iteration risk and that it should be abolished in that part. Perhaps it is seemingly unusual to support the abolition of a law that speaks of the confiscation of property benefit acquired by a criminal act. More specifically, the Act on the confiscation of property benefits achieved by criminal acts and infringements, but the substance of the confiscation of property benefits is well regulated by the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. While the rest of the law that is abolished will be dispersed in the Code of Criminal Procedure of these amendments. In particular, the applicant decided to relocate the provisions of the Act on the confiscation of property benefit procedure resulting from the criminal offence and infringement of the Criminal Procedure Act, of course those provisions which enter the area of the regulatory law on criminal proceedings by their content. In addition to the substantive amendments to certain provisions, it is intended to bring together the legal regulation of the process of confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminal activity or illegal action in one regulation. It is the nature of the proposer that the unification of key provisions relating to the confiscation of the property benefit resulting from the criminal offence in the Criminal Procedure Act avoid inequality in their application and ensure the full and uniform application of these provisions in practice. Finally, it should also be added that the process of confiscation of property benefit as an adthestic procedure according to the applicant should be regulated in the Criminal Procedure Act, while certain issues concerning enforcement, the availability of things taken away and the like, which do not directly refer to criminal proceedings, should continue to be regulated by specific regulations. The first reading of the draft of these laws was also about trust or mistrust in the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. And just now, the debate of counterpart Bošnjakovic was going towards several concrete examples, i.e. how to contribute to improving the efficiency of the system and its more realistic perception in the general public. This way, I regret, in fact, that the distinguished colleague Bosnjakovic is not present today at this debate, but I still point out my congratulations to his colleagues that Bosnjakovic, elected in office by the minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Croatia, and also to fellow Members Martinovic for the appointment of the secretary of state in the same ministry. In addition to congratulations, I express the sincerest desire that we can really succeed in this difficult long-term process, because effective justice is the assumption of every successful society and efficiency of all the processes of social life that take place in one country. The HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament will accept and support the proposals of the final draft laws in accordance with the conclusions and opinions of the parent committees and committees and welcome the adoption of such a legislative framework, which we hope will improve and speed up the trial process in criminal cases in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43681	Thank you, fellow Simic. We have two replicas, the first of which is the distinguished colleague Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43682	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I, of course, advocate the implementation of European directives in our legislation, especially when it comes to criminal legislation and related laws that are discussed today with the aim of having a fair system, the rule of law and the equality of all before the laws. However, the fact is that we have to ask ourselves whether we have law enforcement in Croatia in such a way that we have a fair system, trust in this legislative system and equality of all citizens before the laws of the Republic of Croatia. You yourself mentioned in your debate that this law too suffered seven amendments, that it was gradually introduced into legal practice and procedures in the Republic of Croatia, and that these changes too, we want to improve it. We have heard already in the debates that a complete revision of this law should be made, and it might be better to pass a new Law on criminal proceedings in view of 137 amendments to the articles in this law, but here is the opinion of the HSS club that one thematic session on these topics should be held in the Croatian Parliament because the fact that there is a great mistrust of citizens in the judicial system, that it is not judged by the same law in similar cases in all courts, that some citizens are in a position not to be brought against them, that they are brought against others, that some are convicted, and that judgments fall in the Constitutional Court. Why? That is why because of the mistakes in the procedural sense, because of the different interpretation of the legal rules and because we do not have trust or entrepreneurs in the judicial system and we are running out of investment because we are too much of a country, which we often change laws and that all citizens do not have the ability to have quality legal teams, in that sense I think we should have one thematic debate on this law. What do you think?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43683	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43684	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, thanks also for the replica of the esteemed colleague Vlaović. My colleague Vlaović, you have indeed gone a long way further than I have in my debate on behalf of the club, in an extensive and extensive replica. However, I will try to sum up my reply to the line in a few sentences. It is true that this law has been passed through some six amendments, that this is the seventh amendment to the law, but this only testifies that the legislator and this representative body of the Croatian people actually have the desire to allow the judicial authority to work according to the latest standards in the adoption and implementation, from the conduct of investigations to the verdicts. As far as the thematic session is concerned, it is certainly at the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, at you as a club to initiate such a session, but I wanted to say, in fact, that the importance of these changes that we are making today only contribute to the quality of the trial, the quality of the investigation, and that we are actually giving these amendments to the law more legal certainty and guaranteeing the fundamental freedoms and rights of our citizens given to them by the Constitution. In this whole implementation of the law, we guarantee their protection and, in fact, we allow the judicial authority to be more efficient and faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43685	Thank you. Second replica of my colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43686	Thank you very much, Mr. President. An esteemed colleague, yes, is the urgency that people believe in the judiciary and the implementation of EU law and regulations, and the changes that contribute to the fact that it is as a guarantee that it is not like boredom for those who have money to be free and those who do not have to be detained, imprisoned, to be essentially in a worse position than those who are rich. But the fact that it wasn't enough just seven times to make changes, and the fact that he set these changes began by Minister Sprlje, that you forgot to say and it's good to congratulate your own, and in the first reading it was here, as far as I remember, but it's least important. The intensity of faith in the judiciary will be when the laws are applicable. When there aren't too many legal regulations where no one understands anymore. So, you need a quality law that will allow people to believe it, but that law if it does not apply in practice, and it is visible that it does not apply, until the moment when someone did not have five kunas in his pocket in the 1990s and today he owns Croatia, then he tells you in a way that he couldn't earn it by honest work, there are those who are honest, so I can count people in my town who didn't have kunas in their pocket, the dinars then, now they have empires. And that's the basic problem for the people to see in reality what's wrong with the property. Of course, it can't just be the judiciary, it's the law on the origin of the property, which I will personally prepare with people who are experts, who I will give to all parliamentarians to sign, and simply through other institutions to check it out. As for congratulations to Mr. Martinovic, I congratulate him too. But the fact is that his party, the board of directors, has made one decision that they're in opposition, so now I don't know, maybe he's showing if he's... The main committee or in power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43687	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43688	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bully, you have actually expressed your congratulations in your replica to former Minister Sprlja. Here's the way, and I'm joining the cards. But if we're going to talk about who needs to be congratulated, then I really am also giving congratulations to Mr. Orsat Milenic, a respected fellow parliamentary representative, because he actually created with his people from the Ministry of Bones and the basis for upgrade of such a criminal, criminal procedure, which, therefore, this government and this minister sent to the Parliament for parliamentary debate. As for any differences in the treatment of suspects in criminal proceedings, I just want to remind you of one thing. How many times do you often take out data from some media and newspapers, so I'll just remind you of some media inscriptions how many times you've read that the suspect or person at the hearing in a certain part of the procedure gave one statement and later changed it for some things. I believe that these amendments to the law are also going in the direction that the first kind of conscious conversation to be conducted is recorded by audio visual methods, therefore also by some technique and can later be used in all stages of the procedure as some relevant evidence. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43689	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. It's an individual debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43690	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear secretary, distinguished assistants of the Minister of Justice, colleagues and colleagues I will only brief a few questions with an explanation because in the first reading it is set to... questions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the fact that there are some developments in the law here, but I will always ask the question of the effects so far, so far, here is the seventh amendment to this law. It means '98. the year, so i.e. In particular, here's a question which is the effects and thinking of the Justice Department in the matter of the investigation itself, meaning in the process conducted by the DORH whether it will return as before '97. years, whether you think about it, about courts. And what were the effects while the courts conducted investigations, while the DORH conducted investigations. So that's the one, that's the procedure. So what's the relationship between the DORH and the police, whether the DORH has enough capacity and human resources and potential to do all of this, because the fact that a number of criminal reports stand in drawers, that even some at given moments, and politically abuse, are being taken out by political key. Whether this implementation is the best message for our citizens to believe in means that they believe in our judiciary. In order for the people to begin to believe what counterpart Culej was saying before about war crimes, that war crimes committed in Croatia should be prosecuted. Unfortunately, however, we have signed the possibility that Serbia has the jurisdiction of judicial, i.e. by entering Sbya in negotiations. that he has over Croatian defenders, so she will judge counterpart Culej Croatian defenders in Serbia. Because in the chapter that we, which Serbia means, Croatia did not block in pre-accession negotiations with Serbia Serbia where there should have been much sharper and Croatian diplomacy. I'm sorry, there are two former ministers and presidents and presidents of the Republic. But the fact is that many people who have been jeopardizing Croatian territory, and even from cannons fired today are highly positioned, and you know it very well in our institutions and manage our national wealth and resources. It is a fact and that is true, and that Croatian defenders and unfounded and even in The Hague have suffered numerous while others manage our resources and very important resources. So I'm going to ask one more question whether that law is being considered and if there's a new law on criminal proceedings that's very important, because seven changes are working, it means something's wrong. What are the effects of the example of the judiciary because the fact that the people are watching us and that here it is we will start with telecommunications. Telecommunications were owned by Croatian, privatised, no one answered. We'll start with INA, privatized, white nights privatized, no one answered. In Ukraine our fighter planes were sent to combat, national security was compromised in proper, in the flight officially returned to parts. I think we've had a number of problems where national security is compromised, where it's compromised means the integrity of the Republic of Croatia. No one answered. The one who didn't have any kunas today is the richest. So, is anyone answering? What are the procedures for people who have destroyed many O.P.G.s, economies? So like Agrokor in this case or Mr. Todoric. Is someone responsible for this crime against man, because we have two-thirds of Croatia empty or just enough to change this law which is essentially in the interest of whom I do not know if we have two-thirds of Croatia empty because of those who took the property of our citizens for the right to privatise it in the way they privatise it. Because in conversion and privatisation, we don't have any effect, regardless of what the audits said in the reports that there were many illegalities. The judiciary, the DORH and the others obviously didn't do anything. I personally filed four counts against what, against the people who got the money in Sinj, means in Sinj for the defense, for the weapons as a loan, and today they are free. For weapons, for the defense of the Cetinian end, then very important money has never been returned, nor has there been in the account of either Sinj or Trilja or Vrlika. I don't know if it's Mayor Trill back? Can he find it in the account? Now they're tycoons, and that was the money to defend the Cetino area. Maybe it wouldn't have fallen to Vrlik, probably wouldn't have had a weapon, wouldn't have dropped a feather dam a strategic object where he was tried, made the biggest crime. No one answers, and we change criminal proceedings seven times. It's actually a match. So how is it possible for the Constitutional Court to make a solution that the Law on the Non-Aging of War Profits and Crimes in Conversion, privatization is invalid based on some verdict where Mr. Sanader was that he, that this is not based on the law, so what are we talking about? A key, key law that has to be correct for the sake of justice is the Law on the Origin of Assets. It's very easy to see, for each of us, an individual, for every man who has to be analyzed from the IRS, means the Ministry of Finance, it's visible, we have means of other institutions that can check it out, that's also in other countries, in others when buying a slightly better vehicle. The IRS checks out how, where and how, and someone in us who doesn't work anywhere, isn't redecorated, hasn't worked, isn't really, created an empire, created wealth. It's an honor for people who have earned honor and it's easy to check. However, because of justice and justice and the beginning of the new Croatia and faith in society and the judiciary, the Law on the Origin of Assets is the basis of everything. By then, people won't believe in the judiciary or the Ministry of Finance, because people are aware that they've been robbed of what could have been robbed. Well, I remember Silos once at night when the grains disappeared. Missing grain, missing gold, no grams of gold in the CNB. 15 tons, is anyone asking the people of Croatia, do we, people, have we the right to rule, the Parliament to sell gold? Do we have the right to be in charge of 300 billion kuna? Do we have the right to let our people escape now, that we've never had less mentality than today, so who's to give for the right? And who will believe in the judiciary when a very small majority in Croatia while defending themselves with blood has gained great wealth. Who will believe in our institutions if people were, the minister leads this Parliament, if they then signed an arbitration with Slovenia which is disastrous. Which brought disaster. We must speak to the people of the truth to restore faith to both the judiciary and the Parliament, so the head man of Parliament at that time as a minister, the key person to allow the silent, servantly to take away the Piran Bay, the Slovenians and our territorial sea, our border, our stone, we should not have allowed, in order to restore faith in the institutions and the judiciary and Parliament and finance and the Government, then we must pass the Law on the origin of the property, and all those who have committed crimes, or political decisions, should, as in the case of Salurdy, be held accountable to the law because they have inflicted damage to the people, to our property. With these intensities, I call once again on the legislator here to make the law new, which will be applicable, and mostly without the religion returning to the people, the most important law on the origin of the property and to move forward, and all those who committed crimes against Croatia after the Homeland War, which are political elites, should be answered in all institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43691	We have two replicas. The first is Honorable colleague Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43692	Your Honor. My colleague Bulj, we're a generation, and we've been through a lot, so I believe you're like a kid, I've seen that famous cartoon Little Kalimer, that black chick who yells "It's an injustice." It's all a colleague of Bulj, mine, injustice. And we are here to witness this injustice, every day. It's been a year. We who, as an accident, came to this Croatian Parliament and we speak for the people. Why us? Because legal verticals, but not moral verticals, speak in this Croatian Parliament, about the right, about many things in the interest of the Croatian people, and themselves are participants of the famous Lex Perkovics and other cases, where they have worked against the law. For one reason only, to protect themselves and themselves alike. Well, my colleague Bulj, you are also a witness to the event, here is only 15 meters behind our Croatian coat of arms, when 100% disabled and Croatian defenders have taken an opportunity to protect the Holy Church, the Vatican and who is now not there, as the minister of the MUP and against whom a man has filed a criminal application by name and name, which has been rejected, and the application has been due to everything he has ordered to appear against Croatian defenders and 100% disabled. However, it was not possible to establish the relationship between the minister and the authorising officer and those against whom the disproportionate force was used. 100% disabled and Croatian defenders. So I would end up with this about our Kalimer and the faith of the Croatian people that something good will happen for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43693	Thank you. A fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43694	A fellow Culey every citizen, and so do the defenders, have the right to civil protest, not endangering anyone, and that is the right of every citizen, I have personally been an activist, I have participated in numerous civic activities, actions of protests, and that is my right, whether I will be in a tent, whether I will not be in a tent today in Plitvice, where also defenders defend our Plitvice Lakes, our national wealth or any other and would like both defenders and other groups to stand up for everything, all the injustices that have been done. You mentioned Lex Perkovic, yes, that's... one man, so how to believe at the time, a man who was the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure who said that the referendum, as the majority of the people voted, would be voted in parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, they were, like, verticalizing these and professional and the fact is that the waist was doing its job, the judiciary was doing its job, everyone was doing their job. I probably don't get to be in the Parliament. I'm made... in their midst fighting people for health services, problems of people, workers, Dalmatian women, auto transport, who were robbed because institutions did not do their job because they were bribed, bought because they spit on dead costumes of people who gave their lives for Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course every man I call has the right to association, to warn us who we decide on their behalf, organized action by defenders, civil society associations, all associations have the right to launch referendums and a number of other issues and in this they have my support agreed with them or disagreed with them, but I call on them to rise to every false move of the Croatian institutions, and in this case they would have a daily reason to rise And another thing: Activism is a very good thing and influences politicians. [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43695	Thank you. Another replica, dear colleague Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43696	President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected representatives of the ministry. Dear fellow Bull. As part of the debate on the CAP, the issue of staunch war crimes is therefore not responsible for the victims. This is clear to us by the media, we have been informed more and more about it, but one other question that you have already discussed has touched this issue and given answers and your thoughts. Is it necessary to ask the question of staunch war crimes in terms of criminal privatisation during the Homeland War because we know everything that happened? Croatia has remained a desolation of economics, workers have lost their jobs, and Croatia has been focused on importing, and today we pay tribute to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43697	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43698	Thank you very much, President. My colleague Kirin, not an obsolescence of war crimes yes, but a major crime has been committed in a privatisation robbery, major effects and conversion. Bigger crime. While the dead were defending their country and even in their former systems, the regimes were numerous patriots of the Croats, regardless of the worldview, seeking a free Croatian and suffering for Croatia. And when we came to free Croatia when we achieved it with blood that we now have two-thirds of Croatia empty precisely because there must be no obsolescence of the robbery of the privatisation law whose effects are catastrophic and conversion and war profiting. Because this is grandfather's fair what can be against those who have sought freedom, democratic, independent Croatia from numerous Croatians from Mark Sredica from Tuđman from all those who wanted to and you wanted to be free of Croatia, you were quite active and parliamentary representatives who were older than us who sought independence in Yugoslavia, for the Croatian strong where young people will stay. And the only justice is, there is no statute of crime, of conversion and privatisation and of war profit. This is our obligation to the people, to those who are now going to Ireland and parents who are following their children to Ireland and third countries, and we have better conditions than California and Ireland and New Zealand. The institutions are guilty. We need to restore trust, the law on non-depreciation of crime in the conversion and privatisation and the Law on the origin of property, it's the least we can do, but it's done in reality, not just as... seven amendments on paper, where the state's attorney, the judiciary, the State Judiciary Council does what it wants and how it wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43699	Thank you very much. We're done with replicas and individual debates. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Juro Martinovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43700	Honorable MPs and MPs. I would say that at the end of these discussions that were related to the amendments and additions of the Law on Criminal Procedure and I do not have very professional reasons, legal reasons to speak further, but the Ministry of Justice respects the position of parliamentary representatives as the highest representatives of the Croatian people I have the need for this standard to respect you as a representative and a Croatian Parliament to say something about this final part of the future Croatian citizens via you manifest their will as I have said and my relationship with crime. I think that the expert public as she who participated in the creation of this concept of law and lawyers within the framework of the Ministry of Government, as well as a lot of experts in the Croatian Parliament and the Assembly Committees, has given support to this law and it is recognised that one universal general emergency is to repair the tools of our judiciary in their response to criminality, and on the other hand, as an EU Member State, we are obliged to implement directives relating in this case to this specific criminal sphere. And that's exactly what we've done with these amendments and additions to the law on criminal proceedings and done. So on behalf of the Ministry of Justice instead of the Government as a Proposer, I am grateful to all those who have been involved at a professional level in obtaining such a form as is optimal for me today, but I also thank all those who have made their remarks, their professional and sometimes not professional, but well-intentioned criticism make us make this law as good as possible. So, of course, one of the MPs was saying that we needed the efficiency of the judiciary, that we needed justice. I think these are universal things that no one has a dilemma that the judiciary should be effective. I sometimes have dilemmas, or fears that there is a lack of understanding of this one key, constitutional institute, which is the trio of power. So we have courts that are one branch of government, completely independent in our freedom of application of the law, we have a Parliament that is a legislative authority and that adopts laws and we have an executive authority that in this particular case plays a role of service or structure that prepares legal solutions most often on your initiatives. And I have to say that we all need to know, so I would say to the professional public, and this wider public that rule of law is one of the great principles, our constitutional principles that we have accepted and, on the other hand, we must, once we have joined the EU, implement all the legal gains that this family has been fostering. So, every one of them talked here about the balance of arms as to how this is colloktiously spoken in criminal proceedings, so any exaggeration, giving excessive powers to law enforcement authorities, would be harmful to that general, expecting a claim for justice. So the right to justice and one correct trial are also the defendants, since they are until they become legally condemned in essence to be protected by the presumption of innocence. And that's what the legislative authority is, so you, the ones we're initiating, and here we're defending you, we always have to take care of that balance so the thing doesn't lean on one side. In these amendments, apart from the implementation of the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, there is a part that we have changed exactly somewhere to correct some rights of co-located persecutors, so law enforcement bodies, but also to strengthen some democratic standards of law, defenses in those procedures which the bodies, in the first order of the courts, but in part the state attorney's office and the police lead against persons who are therefore deaf to this common contract, are laws which we have defined as socially unacceptable and waiting for those who are socially unacceptable in the area of criminal and criminal law to act in a sphere of criminal law. Of course, the public most often expects the part of the public that is not in this legal sense professional and has expectations and in terms of the level of penalties imposed. But respected gentlemen, therefore, this process before the courts has several phases and all these phases have its own rules, it is so simplified but so prescribed, it is a phase of establishing legally relevant facts based on the evidence that the competent authorities are carrying out in determining these facts. After that, we have therefore the material criminal norms which you, therefore, which Parliament has issued as a response to illegal social behaviours, therefore in the sphere of criminal offences and we have procedural tools, which is the Law on Criminal Procedure and other procedural laws, but this is a fundamental, primary law which determines the tools and bodies that carry out the proceedings and parties, which are, therefore, against which the procedure is carried out, one balance, which is what a colleague of Grbin said, that this is one of the maximum legal theories, very old and long, that it is better for more persons to be freed and were guilty than just one condemnation which is not guilty, and this is the guilt of the lack and equality in the instruments which the parties in the criminal proceedings have. So this is Parliament, and there have been speeches about some things that don't go into this sphere, but it's all understandable to me since I've been in these benches, so it's understandable. But tomorrow we will not discuss it, but in the vote if the conditions are met, so we will talk about some amendments. The Ministry of Justice has no problem accepting any amendments that are in place to make our bodies better functioning and several amendments from the parliamentary committees will be respected which are not technically functional and useful for the implementation of this law. Here I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43701	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First, he is a respected representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43702	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you have commented on these discussions in the context that we are all for the rule of law, the equality of citizens before the judicial system, and that even in the context of this law we have improved and expected efficiency in the implementation of the same law. I have the information if it's true that the number of cases that were received in criminal cases is also a year-on-year decline in civil courts. Therefore, it would be possible to read either that the courts are effective or that there are no criminal offences and that they should have confidence in the judicial system and in the implementation of the law that all citizens are equal before the judicial system. The fact is that the opinion of citizens is that it is not so, that you have more and more frequent cases and taking the law into your own hands, different forms of self-help and unfortunately and in this way and committing criminal acts or because of mistrust we have no investment or citizens leaving the Republic of Croatia. So that's why we proposed a thematic session, not to politicize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43703	Thank you. The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43704	Thank you. Mr. Representative, I therefore did not refer to your initiative, however, I think that it can only be useful, in any case harmful and initiative to discuss the situation in the judiciary, that in the judicial authority it is absolutely welcome and I personally and neither can the Ministry of Justice have anything against it, but I point to the fact that no percentage of efficiency can be expected in any of the social segments, and also in this segment, we are, in particular, a democratic society, the Constitution is democratically set, we accept the standards of the democratic EU, so we give the same tools to those who are being persecuted and who defends themselves, it is a democratic standard and it must not be deviated and sometimes in danger that something is not processed. But there must never be a legislator's intention, and it is you and us who serve you, to open the pores or to protect someone, and I am not such things in my practice when I have followed Parliament's work, and even when I have participated in it today, I have never recognized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43705	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43706	Dear Secretary of State, here you are also talking about the tripartiteness of power, meaning executive, judicial and legislative. I would dare this legislative one that we present here, which is essentially less and less the one that creates laws or makes laws, in fact we just vote them here as our citizens do very well and see, and what turns out to be this legislative authority becomes a subject of ridicule in the public because it turns out that MPs in the Croatian Parliament are one of the worst types of politicians, and in the most part we can't even influence what is being passed because the laws are always being prepared somewhere else, so whoever has executive power, he prepares the laws. One who has executive power has a majority in this legislative body, so in some ways the executive authority itself brings the laws that they want here. And on the third power of the court, also our citizens have a very bad opinion and no more trust in it, to look at this political side, we are witnessing the purchase of councilors in the creation of most, so they are no longer the choices that matter how citizens decide because they always buy councilmen and create quite another story of which our citizens wanted. I think that trust in these three authorities has been greatly ruined in the eyes of Croatian citizens, and that is one of the reasons why the citizens of younger people leave the Republic of Croatia and go somewhere where things are better arranged than here because they simply don't believe in the judiciary or us in the Croatian Parliament, and to God or to the executive authority representing the Government of the Republic and the Ministry and Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43707	The answer to the Honorable Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43708	Thank you for giving me a chance to respond to these remarks. So what I can say is my own personal thinking and that's one philosophical definition of law and that's an eternal attempt to achieve justice. And what you're saying about the role of parliamentary representatives and parliament in law-making procedures, I just don't agree with that. So if you were to listen to good and debate and today you had to notice about this law that it lasted more than a year. That it has gone through a series of levels both outside the Parliament and the parliamentary committees. I have defended this law and some other laws that come from the government on several parliamentary committees, and I must tell you that I have had very dynamic discussions on the parliamentary committees, so from the MPs. So here and here, but I don't think it's necessary to wage political and parliamentary wars over some things in the law if we recognize that they are indeed one of the generalities and need for the well-being of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. To speak universally of the problems of the judicial authority in relation to the laws, so here or you, you bring laws and give tools to everyone. Through these laws, you send a message and a judgmental authority which is expected of them. We can't control them, it's just democracy. We can try, we can criticize, we can create this interaction between one and the other and third authorities, and that's what democracy does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43709	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43710	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 78. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and by the representative of Peja Grbin. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Re-esteemed counterpart Juro Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. So we're going with the Legislative Committee. We've got two.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43711	Thank you, Mr. President. Here is that the Government, as a proposal for amendments, has decided to adopt amendment number one of the Legislative Committees and will form an integral part of the text of the proposed law. Amendment number two. The Government also accepts the proposal and the amendment will form an integral part of the text of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43712	Okay. Now we move on to the amendment of the distinguished colleague Peje Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43713	The government did not accept the amendment of counterpart Peje Grbina for the reason that he proposed, in an integrated sense, that a longer space be determined, so the legislation was Vacated. The government also considers one part of the standards of these amendments to be delayed in the part where informed talks will have to be recorded and allowed the defendants to have immediately at the beginning of the defenders for reasons of needing technical adjustment. In the other part, it is about adapting our laws to the old EU directives and we felt that this should go into effect immediately as we said in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43714	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43715	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act in question have 137 articles, i.e. 137 articles. They change almost 25% of the Criminal Procedure Act. My amendment actually proposes an extension of so-called. Vacatio legis in a way that the whole law, not just six articles, discussed by the honourable State Secretary, enters into force on 1 December 2017. Why? Because it is a major change that will require an adjustment that has not been made. If we do not accept this amendment, the next situation will take place. We will adopt the law today, the law will be published at the end of next week, and in 8 days afterwards, so 15 days from today all courts in the Republic of Croatia will have to apply it in practice. So I'll do it again. We have not prepared the entry into force of this law, and it will enter into force in 15 days in something extremely sensitive, such as the criminal procedure in which the rights and freedoms of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are decided. We'll get back into the problems we already have, especially in a first-degree criminal trial where unsolved cases are piled up. In the entire judiciary, we have a drop in unsolved cases, so we're solving backlogs except for a first-degree criminal trial, and what are we doing then? We are passing a new law, changing almost a quarter of the Criminal Procedure Act, and then we say it will take effect within 15 days of the vote in the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course, I request a vote on this amendment because I think otherwise, there will be exceptional damage to the functioning of our criminal trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43716	Okay. I'm putting it to the vote. Who is this amendment proposed by a colleague of the coat of arms? I find he didn't get enough, he needed a number of votes, and he didn't, so he became part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the procedure laid down. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 107 votes for and 7 abstentions, have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Expressed Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43717	Now we would move on to the following law, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 119. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material has been delivered to you in boxes, on the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The re-reputed State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43718	Dear MPs and MPs, therefore here is another law in this criminal and criminal sphere. He's slightly less comprehensive, so I think we'll have something easier to do, hopefully when we get to that final bill. Therefore, the draft law is discussed and supported by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Justice of the Croatian Parliament and is supported by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ in the debate at the plenary session. There were no other proposals, objections and opinions on the bill, and therefore there is no difference between the solutions proposed in this second reading compared to the solution set out in the first reading bill. So, the 2007 Criminal Law was passed on 10 October 2007, it entered into force in January 2008. The law has been amended and amended twice, in 2013, in force since 01 June 2013, and these other amendments have been in force since 01 January 2014. The third amendments and additions to the Criminal Law entered into force on 21 October 2015 and were initiated and implemented because of certain EU legal acts which had to be transposed into domestic legislation and required the extension of the legislative framework for infringement law. This extension concerned the possibility of prescribing and expressing a greater range and higher amounts, and the different ways of calculating certain fines, enabling the regulation and provoking of protection measures against the performance of long-term business or activities and even the permanent provision of certain authorised prosecutors to publicly publish judicial decisions on infringements, and even the inadequacies on their own websites that we have not had in our practice so far. So before power can be placed on the front page of EU regulators, and with us, there is something, but they have not yet come to life as in the EU. Therefore, after the first degree, they can, as authorised prosecutors, publish a first-degree decision on their pages. Specific laws transposing such legally binding EU acts into domestic legislation included the jurisdiction of relatively new entities in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, etc. independent regulatory agencies, i.e. legal persons with public authority whose special law establishes the status of an independent regulator. Thus, the 2015 Criminal Law created a legislative framework in accordance with legally binding EU acts which at that time entered into or entered into force or were known to be being transposed into domestic law with the expectation that similar acts would take place within such a legislative framework. In the meantime, however, new legally binding EU acts are emerging, which, to some extent, cross or deviate from the legislative framework described above. In addition, the laws they transfer to domestic law are not only in the jurisdiction of legal persons with public authority whose special law establishes the status of an independent regulator, but also the authorities of the State Administration and Government in the first order of the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Inspectorate of their own, and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Tax Administration, the Customs Administration and the Croatian National Bank. So such cases are the fourth directive, such a case is the fourth directive number 8. 49 of 2015 Since May 2015, the European Parliament and the Council on preventing the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing amending EU Regulation 648 of 2012 The European Parliament and the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60 The European Parliament and the Council and the Commission Directive 2006 No 70 on sanctions for which domestic legislation is transposed shall be set by 26 June 2017. It is therefore proposed to amend Article 33 where a fine for such infringements is referred to in paragraph 10 of that Article in such a way as to allow for infringements for which a legally binding EU law provides for a certain range of fines or a general minimum or a general maximum of fines or a method of calculating fines by means of a special law for the offender of the offence to be prescribed and to impose a fine in respect of which the general rules laid down in paragraph 1 to 9 of this Law do not apply. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. on the amounts and method of calculation of the fines shall not be parallel to this amendment, as amended by Article 33, and shall therefore be deleted as such. The other amendments and additions are, in fact, linked, i.e. necessary for the purposes of amending these two provisions of Article 33 and repealing Article 33a. Given the large number of possible variations, the combination of the determination of the amount or method of calculating the amount of fines of any and any statically laid down legislative framework in this respect is not a guarantee that it would be sufficient to cover the requirements of any future legally binding EU act, so in any case they would be forced to amend the Criminal Law. In fact, the domestic legislative framework is neither a defence nor an obstacle to longer-term legal decisions, since the Republic of Croatia, as well as other full-fledged EU Member States, is obliged to transpose EU law in its domestic right, and in any case would be forced to amend the Criminal Law. Therefore, pursuant to Article 288 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU legal acts of the EU are regulations, directives, decisions, recommendations and opinions of which only recommendations and opinions do not have the character of legally binding acts. Therefore, such a flexible legislative solution is proposed which will allow specific laws to be passed uninterrupted through the rights of binding, legally binding EU acts while preventing the legislative necessity of permanent and frequent amendments to the Criminal Law. I hope you all understand. So in the EU regulators, as well as with us, there are special laws on violations where both material norms and sanctions are prescribed. And they are in the EU far, far, far greater than we have. We must implement this, given that we are frequently implementing certain directives in this area, here the legislator decided for pragmatic reasons to make the Criminal Law as a fundamental law in the area of infringements such that no procedure in this law must be done fundamentally every time we implement a directive, let's say from the money laundering sphere. Only that part will be changed, so it will only be implemented in the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering where they are prescribed, therefore also criminal acts and their sanctions, and no procedure will have to go into this. And I think that's all the point of this amendment to the Law of Infractions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43719	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected representative, Miroslav Simic, appeared. I don't see him here. He's losing his right to speak. Next on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA, distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. I can't see him. He's not here either, he's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Honorable Representative Orsat Milenic. I can't see him. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished representative Marija Jelkovac. There she is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43720	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'll try to be brief. So, before us today, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law was discussed at the third session that we had on May 4th this year was supported by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice and there were no other proposals and objections to the bill itself, and therefore there is no difference in the final draft of the law, and they are at the very heart of the proposal that we have discussed. Similarly, there was no amendment to this final draft of the law and to the adoption unanimously of both the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. These amendments, proposed in the final law, implement provisions 4 of Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention of the use of financial systems for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing. In accordance with European rules, the proposed final law has been harmonised, and the term work on black is replaced by the words of unregistered work and employment. The most significant are, however, changes in the provisions relating to the regulation of fines, and the possibility of prescribing fines in percentage and from protected value is introduced. It is also important to establish a flexible legislative framework for fines, in the case of transposition of legally binding EU acts, and thus we will not find ourselves in a situation that, in the event of a future legally binding EU act, we need to change the law, which is very positive and thus, there is more legal certainty. Namely, Art. 33 has been amended. Paragraph 10 and allows for infringements for which a legally binding EU act provides for a range of fines, i.e. a monetary minimum or a maximum, or a method of calculation, to be prescribed by a special law, to impose a fine in respect of which the general limits set out in the preceding paragraph of Article 33 are not applicable. The law. This is, therefore, the most important amendment in this proposal, and therefore, the HDZ Club will support this final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Violent Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43721	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43722	My colleague Jelkovac, I have answered the replica for one reason, today we are discussing these judicial laws, but I am often asked whether we are aware of the conditions in which these criminal judges work. And I think it's something we should discuss here, too. When you see the terms of the Criminal Court in Zagreb, it's a disaster, you want to go to Gorica or somewhere else, until these judges practically don't have to wash a piece of fruit, but they have to do it in the toilet without saying what the conditions are for the offices. These offices are located in former premises, which were the offices of a company that simply did not meet the conditions for people coming to the hearing and all together. I think that we, as parliamentary representatives with these legislative changes that are in line with the EU Directive, are going towards making these courts as effective as possible in order to serve our citizens, we must think and think about how and in what conditions these people are doing, because these are all highly educated people, very professional, but the working conditions very often force them to leave and then, unfortunately, with the poor quality of the fall and the quality of work in court. So we have to look at one whole taste in which this law applies and then simply when we're discussing the state budget, then we just have to consider some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43723	Thank you. Answer to the distinguished representative, Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43724	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, I couldn't agree more with you. So the fact is that many times, so in general amongst the public there is only criticism of everyone who works in state institutions and so on and the judiciary, and what you say is really so, I am aware of the fact that not only in criminal courts, but also in other courts the conditions are not great and indeed, I hope that through the state budget we will find opportunities to fix this situation, but here you would mention an example from my city, the city of Karlovac where the court is restored from EU funds, and I really believe that these days the judges should return to the building and in much better working conditions. So here, it is also one suggestion and possibility, that the European funds also improve the real material conditions in our courts, and thus really enable judges and better quality, better work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43725	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate about this law, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43726	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 119. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law, please vote. I find it unanimous, 118 votes to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43727	We would move on to the following law is: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, second reading, P.Z. No. 80 The act shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received their reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here's the State Secretary at the Justice Department again, Mr. Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43728	... And MPs, so you who are in continuity today in the Parliament, I think you recognize what this is about. [[Specially enabled.]] So, we're changing the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Regulation, changing it in a package with the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, changing it in that segment where we've had a overlap in regulation in relation to the seizing of property benefits acquired by criminal acts and violations. This matter was regulated or I would say rather regulated, so it was in the Law on Criminal Procedure in this special Act on the confiscation of property benefit and part of this Law on the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime. And this particular change is short, small and she's a package. It deletes from the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime the provisions that treat material confiscation of property benefit acquired by criminal acts and offences, and I believe that it is a purely technical solution and that the first reading has passed, so this is a phase of the second reading, but I don't think it has caused any controversy since it is a purely legal and technical law that better regulates matter and is focused on one place so that the bodies applying the law in that segment should effectively take away property which has been acquired by criminal acts and offences put in one place where it is most important, which is the Law on criminal proceedings and that is all I wanted to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43729	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first came the honorary representative Orsat Milenic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished representative Marko Šimic. He's not here either, he's losing his right to debate. Individually, he reported for the debate, distinguished representative Miro Bulj, who is withdrawing. Therefore, I conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43730	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Regulation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 80. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would ask again, colleague Juru Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43731	Thank you, Mr. President. So the government, as a promoter in relation to the amendment of the Legislative Committee, was one amendment. The government has decided to accept this amendment and will form an integral part of the text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43732	Thank you very much. That I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Regulation. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 118 for, 5 abstentions, have been passed by the Law amending the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Act together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43733	We move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the procedure of confiscation of property benefit achieved by criminal act and violation, second reading, P.Z. Number 79. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the re-esteemed State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. So here's another one I'd say an even lighter story. The suspension of this law ceases to apply, in fact, the Law on the termination of the Act on the procedure of confiscation of property benefit resulting from criminal acts and infringements. We talked a lot today in this House, so we had this three-way law on criminal proceedings, the Law on Special Law and the USKOK Act. As you have seen in my previous presentation, we have now removed these provisions from the USKOK Act, we have transferred these provisions to the Criminal Procedure Act. So we pass a law that ceases to apply the special law we had on the process of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by criminal act and violation. This law only has two articles and a third when it comes into force, so I don't think it was the subject of any special expert or other debates. And in that sense, I had to just bring this out to you to possibly avoid it, but of course it's allowed to discuss everything, to avoid unnecessary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43735	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43736	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State. You are repealing the Law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property and the key question is not why this law has been abolished but how many of these illegally acquired assets have been seized under that law. So can you report to the Croatian public since it is indeed of interest, how much illegally acquired property in the Republic of Croatia has been taken away so far? Here are the citizens who suspect it's dozens and hundreds of even billions of kuna in the last 27 years, and according to those analyses we've received from the ministry, three million kunas have been taken from us so far. So is it true that only three million kunas of illegally acquired property were seized during this entire period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43737	Thank you. The Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43738	Dear Representative Bunjac. So I have to say that you're wrong when you say that we have abolished the law or formally correctly, but we haven't abolished the norm that regulates it. So, of course, I don't expect you to do this with some bad intentions, but you probably let yourself out of your sight during the debate, that this law was put out of force just because all the norms that regulate the matter of confiscation were illegally acquired property benefits with criminal acts and offences transferred to the basic law of procedure, which is the law on criminal proceedings. As far as these reports are concerned, which you expect from me, the Ministry of Justice at this time and in this procedure has no intention of presenting any information. You get this information very often in the reports of the competent authorities who have an obligation to submit a report and about such cases before the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43739	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Marko Šimic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43740	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable state secretary with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In my debate on the draft law, on the final draft law on amendments to the criminal procedure, I also actually referred to the proposed amendments to this law. Therefore, it remains to be determined that we would not spread the debate in some direction that may no longer be necessary. I will only say that the Proposer, i.e. the Proposer, has decided to move certain provisions of this law to the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act. Of course, those provisions that enter into the area of this very law, according to their content. In addition to the substantive amendments to certain provisions, it is intended to bring together the legal regulation of the process of confiscation of property benefit obtained by criminal acts or illegal work in one regulation. It is the nature of the proposer that the unification of key provisions relating to the confiscation of the property benefit resulting from the criminal offence in the Criminal Procedure Act avoid inequality in their application and ensure the full and uniform application of these provisions in practice. Finally, it should be added that the process of confiscation as an adhesion procedure, according to the applicant, should be regulated precisely in the Criminal Procedure Act, while certain issues concerning the conduct of the confiscation and the like, which do not directly refer to the criminal proceedings, should continue to be regulated by specific regulations. Finally, the HDZ Representatives' Club will accept and support the proposal for a final law under discussion and, therefore, in accordance with the conclusions and opinions of the parent board and the committees concerned, we will welcome the adoption of another legislative framework and laws that we hope will improve and speed up the trial process in criminal cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43741	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now, since a large number of MPs were unexpectedly withdrawn, he reported for a discussion on behalf of the clubs or individually and then pulled out, we're going to take a break now because the proposing representatives need to come and we're going to take a 15-minute break and we'll see you at 12.30 here. We continue with the Comparability of Comparability of Compensation, Transfer of Payment Account and Access to Basic Account. We're going in a row. MEETING IN 12.10 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43742	Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Act on the seizing of property benefit proceedings and infringements, second reading, P.Z.E. No.79. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Act on the seizing of property benefit proceedings and infringements. Please, let's vote. I find that a unanimous 121 vote is for, passed, a law on the process of confiscation of property benefit achieved by a criminal act and a violation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43743	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12, 25 HOURS]] The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material has been delivered to you in boxes, on the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43744	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, you are therefore facing the Final Proposal of the Law on Comparability of Comparability of Comparability of Comparability of Payments and Access to the Basic Account, which was held at the third session of the Croatian Parliament in early March, has reached a conclusion which adopted the proposal of the Law on Comparability of Comparability of Compensation of Account Transfers for Payment and Access to the Basic Account. In his first reading with 124 votes in favour and one vote was abstention. In that parliamentary debate, significant support for the adoption of this law prevailed. The comments and proposals were carefully considered, however, it was concluded that outside the scope of the subject-matter of the regulation of this law, and it was the arrangement of bank fees for legal persons, the suspension of bank offices in municipal centres, the payment of salaries in cash, the closure of the last account taken from the application, etc. Following this, there is no difference between the solutions proposed by this final draft law compared to the bill presented in the first reading. Let me present to you again briefly the law itself, its objectives and its expected effects. Therefore, this law regulates rules for the comparableity of the charges charged to the consumer, the transfer of wages bills within the Republic of Croatia, and the opening and use of the basic payment account. It is important to note that the provisions of this law apply only to consumers and not to legal persons. The subject matter of this law has so far not been regulated by the regulations of the Republic of Croatia, and the main incentive for the adoption of the law is the transposition of Directive No. 92 of 2014 The European Parliament and the Council of July 2014 on the comparability of fees related to payment accounts, transfer from the payment account and access to the payment account to basic services. Therefore, this Directive is implemented by this law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the transposition of the provisions of the Directive, the main reason for the proposal of this law is the need to increase transparency and comparableity of fees related to the payment account, to mitigate difficulties in transferring the payment account and to ensure that consumers are entitled to open and use the basic payment account. Laws are expected to be passed by improving the provision of payment services to consumers, resulting in an increase in competition levels in the banking sector. This law provides a payment account which is defined as an account held by the payment service provider on behalf of one or more consumers, whereby the consumer can at least pay the money, raise almost the money and execute and receive payment transactions including credit transfers for the benefit of another person or of another person. From the above account functionality, currently in the Republic of Croatia the payment account would primarily be considered as current and gyro accounts of consumers, kunas and foreign currencies. As regards the current situation in this area at the end of 2015, consumers had a total of 7 million and 363 transaction accounts opened, and the number of consumers in the Republic of Croatia on the same day at the end of 2015, which had at least one transaction account of 3 million and 608,000 and 852 from which the average of Croatian consumers, i.e. Croatian citizens, had two transaction accounts opened. So the objectives of lawmaking are the following. Increase transparency and comparability of payments related to the payment account, establish rules for the transfer of the salary account within the Republic of Croatia, facilitate cross-border opening of the payment account and establish rules for the opening and use of the basic account. When we talk about increasing transparency and comparableity of fees, this law foresees achieving this through three instruments. The first is the information document on fees, the second is the fee reports and the third is the comparison of fees. Therefore, when we talk about an information document on fees, the basis of this law is a credit institution before the consumer is bound by an offer or a framework agreement on a payment account, and in advance enough, to give the consumer an informed document on fees for the most representative services related to the payment account and a concept that must cover at least the names and definitions of services. In doing so, it will be mandatory to use service names from the final list of the most representative services associated with the payment account, as soon as the consumer makes it easier to compare offers of different credit institutions. If one or more payment account-related services are offered as part of a payment account-related service package, an information document on fees must also include compensation for the whole package of services included in the package and their quantity as well as an additional fee for any service exceeding the amount covered by the package fee. The CNB sublaw lays down a list of at least 10 and no more than 20 of the most representative services associated with the payment account and estimates each four years and updates that list as required. The fee report is, we said another instrument through which we would increase transparency. It is therefore that the credit institution is obliged to provide, at least once a year, a free payment account with regard to the payment account, or to make available to the consumer, a report on all accounted and paid fees and interest related to the payment account, including interest rate information, the total amount for calculating those interest on the agreed excess. This will further inform consumers about the real amount of fees paid at the annual level and the total amount of interest charged on the agreed overrun during the same period. The comparison of fees for the purpose of thus increasing the transparency of CNB fees and the Croatian National Bank's website will publish a comparison of the fees charged by different credit institutions to consumers for the most representative services associated with the payment account. The purpose is to enable consumers to access impartial and credible information about the real amount of fees related to the payment account charged by all credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Access to that page will, of course, be free of charge and will allow consumers to obtain clear, aggregated and accurate information on fees charged by credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia and all in one place without unnecessary costs. This will make it very easy for consumers to choose the most favourable credit institution, thus increasing competition among credit institutions. All credit institutions are also obliged to provide a link to that side of the Croatian National Bank on their website. The law introduces rules that simplify and regulate the payment account transfer service in the Republic of Croatia or transfer the payment account from one credit institution to another credit institution. The transfer service should allow the consumer a clear, fast and secure transfer of the payment account in the same currency to the payment service provider in the Republic of Croatia without a significant administrative or financial burden on the consumer. In order to achieve this right to transfer the payment account in the Republic of Croatia, the consumer will only have to give power to a credit institution that wants to transfer its account. By a legal deadline of 12 working days, the information on permanent accounts, direct debits and repeated incoming credit transfers made on the payment account, and the balance of the account will be transferred from one credit institution to another. The fees relating to the transfer service must also be reasonable in accordance with the actual costs of that payment service provider. Furthermore, the law also regulates the way in which basic payment accounts are opened and used in credit institutions for consumers with legal residence in the EU. Even though payment service providers today offer certain categories of consumers, for example students, pensioners etc. The opening and use of payment accounts under more favourable conditions of this law will allow for a particularly sensitive group of consumers of social assistance to exercise their right to a basic account, including the right to 10 free national payment transactions. The basic account shall include the opening and keeping of payment accounts, the depositing of cash on the account, the raising of cash from that account, the execution of payment transactions, so-called direct debits, payment transactions through a payment card including payments via the Internet and credit transfers, etc. The right to open and use a basic account is non-discriminatory and is easily available. The law lays down the obligation to open and maintain a basic account for those credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia whose financial power and network distribution of business units ensures wide availability for all consumers wishing to open a basic account. A credit institution that, according to the revised annual financial statements for the previous year, has a total asset greater than 15 billion kuna is obliged to offer consumers a basic account, and other credit institutions can do so if they wish. The basic account is kept in kunas, and the agreed overrun by it is not allowed. The fee for opening and using a consumer base account belonging to a sensitive group would be around 7 kuna per month. The law provides for its entry into force eight days from the date of its publication in the National Journal, with the exception of the provisions of the Transparency and Comparability Act relating to the payment account entered into force on the first day following the expiry of the period of 9 months following the date of entry into force of the delegated act of the European Commission defining the format and structure of those provisions. Therefore, a regulation of the European Commission is to be adopted. The CNB will then, by means of a Regulation, transpose that delegated act into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and thereafter enter into force this provision on transparency. The European Commission is expected to adopt this act in the third quarter of this year. So, as we could see from the reasons, the law increases the transparency of fees related to the payment account, makes it much easier, easier, faster and more favourable to transfer the bill for payment from one credit institution to another. It enables the opening and use of the basic account, so we think that this law will in any way focus on greater consumer protection, their better information, and on a better market position. And we think that the law is certainly worth your support as it happened in the first reading. Here I thank you for your attention and expect a constructive debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43745	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. And before I give my word, just so we know what's going to happen today. So, after this point, we will have the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Associations and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Personal Name, the Report on Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the legal authority and the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the National Lawyers' Council. We have slightly increased the number of points, simply because a series of dots during the morning has been greatly accelerated since many have given up more experience. And now we're going to have a debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club on this point, the Honorable Representative Boris Lalovac reported on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43746	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with his associates, here we have today the Proposal for a Law on Comparability of Comparability of Compensation of Transfers of Payment Accounts and Access to the Basic Account. It would be consistent with the directive. One simple law that I believe we'll all support here, and right now, let me say that the SDP Club will support this law, but let's just see how it is on the financial market. And we know that this law cannot regulate the entire part of the compensation, but I will try to point out in my debate how important the market is and how important this law is at all. In front of us, this final proposal for a law which is the fundamental purpose of regulating under 1st transparency and the comparability of fees related to the payment account, under 2nd transfer of the salary account within the Republic of Croatia, facilitating the cross-border payment account, and the achievement and use of the basic account. The adoption of this law in order to bring national legislation into line with EU Directive, the consumer will be able to open and use the basics under 1. So the basic account is, it's in art. 23. opening, handling and closing of accounts, depositing and raising of cash on a counter or ATM, payment transaction services, means direct charge, card payment through interethnicity, permanent deposit, etc. And here defined that a contractual cross-border based on a basic account is not allowed. So Art. 23 paragraph 6. Which means if this is my, this question, right here, I'm going to open up a debate, whether or not this is going to apply to these transaction accounts. This is what we're saying is that this is a basic account. The basic account should differ from this transaction account. However, in order to avoid any delusions, the question arises whether and whether these actually eliminate the negatives in the citizens' current accounts. I hope that in the debate later and even more detailed. Then, number 2 is to transfer payment accounts from one bank to another bank, meaning transfer without a large administrative and financial burden on consumers, here only in the explanation it says that it is sufficient to submit a request with full powers in a unified form, and all other actions will be carried out by the banks. So it turns out very simply, so you're just going to give a warrant and you're going to be able to transfer without a great burden on the financial and administrative you're going to open from one bank to another bank. We're talking about a basic account. Now I ask the question, does this apply to all accounts? Our transaction accounts that we receive mean that we receive salaries, where we receive these inflows, whether it's just them or whether it's just this basic account and the comparableity of the fee and the amount of the fee. It's certainly the advantage of this law we passed, we didn't have any other laws. This is to compare the scope of services and the level of compensation and have a better condition in the already charged fees which will facilitate comparisons of offers, different payment service providers. This is certainly interesting and that it is good that once a year the consumer will be informed of all fees charged, free of charge on one document. You're going to be at the end of the year, we're doing certain transactions every day, they're taking our accounts from hand, it's about nine kunas, so if you don't know Internet banking, that's another 7 kuna. If you have mobile banking, then you get another 6.7 kuna, when you pay certain directors, that's 2, 3 kuna. When you're paying any certain permanent orders, it's 7.8 kuna, etc. And then now you'll get at the end of the year, just last night I saw from my account, at the end of the year you'll get, that's good, free information, how much you're all, like us consumers how much we eventually paid the bank for all those services, fees, commissions. Which I think is good and we welcome. So not only does it apply to everything, to all the fees they've been charging, and then you'll actually see how much we pay each year. This doesn't seem like much per month, we don't pay much attention, and you'll see later in the data they're about. It is also important that the CNB publish on its website a comparison of the fees that different payment service providers charge to consumers for the most representative services associated with the pay manual. Also, I think that's good. Because today, if we want to see between one bank and another, you have to go into those patterns, so you can't just compare it, because this one is 9 kuna, with the other 10. Someone's got a 2 kuna transaction, one's got $1.50, and you just can't get to go compare it yourself. I think it's good to get in one place the CNB, that in one simple and transparent way they'll compare the fees and see how much we're paying for it. So let's see how many citizens even use cards, bills and what money it's about, I'm saying even though this law doesn't define that we're going to limit some kind of bank fee, that commission, these costs, but let's see what business it's about. According to CNB data at the end of 2015, a respected secretary of state said 7 million 258 thousand 363 consumer transaction accounts were opened with credit institutions. The total number of consumers who had at least one account opened was 3 million 608 thousand, 852. So 3.6 million Croatian citizens have at least one account open, which means we have an average of 2.16 accounts opened per consumer. When we take the total number of Croatian citizens, the percentage of the population with at least one payment account in the Republic of Croatia is very high 84.2%. When we take all residents to the Republic of Croatia, those who are not consumers and who have no bills at all, when we put them with those who have bills, 84.2% of Croatian citizens have at least one account. The total number of consumer users according to the contractual payment method of the user on the load of accounts opened by credit institutions appears to be the following. So citizens mostly on the Internet, who use the Internet on their payments, we have a million 152 thousand 945 consumers. With a mobile phone, 463 thousand 452 e-account only pays about 33,000 citizens. What direct debit means when you charge a warrant and the bank's consent to charge you with your account, you have over a million consumers for a permanent order also in Croatia have over a million consumers who have given you a warrant to carry out your permanent order. It's interesting that the debit card I believe most of you have there, so when you get and open a transaction account they give you a debit card in the bank, in Croatia there are 3 million 345 thousand 174 Croatian citizens, so 3 million and 300 we have debit cards, and credit cards that are more tied up later means that you have to have some pay later means you don't charge you right away we have a million 117 thousand 302 credit cards or consumers. What does this tell us? That mostly Croatian citizens use online payments of around 26.9% of consumers, or as many as 31%, the process of the population used by paying mobile bills is about 10%, and it is interesting that the number of citizens who have a debit card is 92.7% of Croatian citizens has a debit card. Why am I telling you all this? Because it is important when we talk about fees and see how much it is related to the consumer himself, it is very important that we know how many Croatian citizens use these services in the first place, while every third consumer in the Republic of Croatia has a credit card. Now a little bit of these 7.2 million transaction accounts 4.5 million transaction accounts are without an approved overrun, of these 7.2 4.5 million of these accounts have no around 63% no negative on the card, 1.8 million transaction accounts have overruns or about 25%, but out of these 1.8 million accounts the excess benefits one million, means one million transaction accounts or 57% of the total... benefits overruns. What is later interesting is that in this 7.2 million that total was blocked on 31.12.2015 in 913 thousand 852 transaction accounts, I will repeat once again 913 thousand Croatian citizens' transaction accounts are currently blocked in the Republic of Croatia. It's a very large number, so a million, a million bills. For comparisons to get how much of this is compared to business entities, so blocked accounts of business entities is 56 thousand 644. Now take millions here citizens of transaction accounts and 56 thousand 644 business entities which is 16 times less than the transaction accounts of consumers. Why am I telling you this? In order to gain importance, and this is also about blocked citizens, we recently talked about residential consumer lending, we will talk about next week when it comes to the performance, meaning that we see when we have a complete picture of the debt management, the private debt of Croatian citizens who are the problems, how we solve these problems, and that we see when we are passing certain laws and that we are precisely aiming to know exactly how to solve this problem, and it is also about these fees. What is also obtained by analysing the movement of national credit transfers made by consumers, we only talk about consumers about Croatian citizens. Those who gave the order in 2015 on paper findings because they are mostly still in the Republic of Croatia going to the counters and mainly paying their obligations through the counter, Croatian citizens made 70 million transactions in 2015 worth 55 billion kuna, and they electronically gave about 52 million transactions worth 47.6 billion kuna via the internet. When summed up either paper or electronic means that Croatian citizens made a total of 123 million transactions worth 103 billion kuna per year, so the Croatian citizens did it annually. And why I say this again is ultimately important when we get at some monthly level to get a monthly sense of how much this transaction is done and why this law is important and why it's an important fee and why it's an additional job that needs to be regulated, monthly about 5.8 million transactions on paper means about 4.6 billion and e-mail 4.4, or 4 billion, means monthly Croatian citizens are on average carrying out 10 million transactions worth 8.5 billion kuna. Why does this matter? When the annual accounts of business banks are taken, you have their income from interest rates, so they take credits, they give it their basic activity to lend to Croatian citizens. In the last three years, I will only tell you the revenues from fees and fees, with the fact that these fees are not only for consumers, they are not divided into consumers, and they are not for entrepreneurs, so they are expensive here, paying both entrepreneurs and consumers in their balance sheets, they are not separated but are together. They're making some money a year, so annual fees and fees are at the level of $ 4.5 billion, I repeat 4.5 billion once again, bankers charge fees and fees. Costs of commissions and fees for these same banks are about a billion and 300 million kunas to you. So net net profit, net profit from business banks net revenue from fees and fees in 2016 was 3.2 billion kuna. So to get at all the notion of a billion 4.5 billion kuna is somewhere the budget of the Ministry of Defence, the two Peljeka bridges are made without eu funds are made only from fees and commissions from banks that bring in this section. When we talk about the net net net profit of three billion kunas that they get from commissions and fees, imagine what that would mean to the state budget? There are ministers there, they know how they talked to their fellow ministers when they were running a certain state policy and they took 100 million kunas, 50 million kunas, and then they took someone to transport students or give to certain books, so you have to give me no idea if 50 or 100 million kunas, etc. It was very difficult to find these certain funds in the budget, it was very difficult and then when you managed to save 50 or 100 or 200 or 500 million kuna, everyone happy. And here on the sole basis of commissions and fees that we're just going through because it's simply small amounts, we don't see them in the account. So if each of you, I believe that at the end of the year you'll get, you'll see that you're paying to be taken away, that you don't see at all between 500 and 100 kuna a year. Now take that there are 3.6 million of these consumers, that's about 2 billion kuna to you, just from all sorts of these fees that you think, which I just don't notice from us at all. What's also important for the comparableity of these fees, so I said there are 7.2 million bills. Every one of you probably doesn't watch, doesn't look at that part, see how much they take from you for a bill. They take nine kunas from you, nine kunas each from you a month, whether you work or not, they take nine kunas from your account. This was the case for special groups of people, as the secretary of state said that there would be 7 kuna, that even for those who receive certain social benefits, they are precisely listed here in the article, it seems to me to me that 24 consumers belonging to a sensitive group are users of the following rights, guaranteed minimum fees, remuneration for personal benefits. So only a short 100m euros are charged by banks to run transaction accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43747	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjca, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43748	Thank you very much, Reverend Lalovec, for your interesting debate. You said that banks take fees even for blank bills, here we heard, for bills that have no traffic, we heard about what the figures are, means 100 million euros just to keep an account, 4.5 billion kuna for fees only and commissions. Can you tell me as former finance minister, which is why it is forbidden to pay on the hands in Croatia? So citizens just can't get paid by hand, which means the citizens won't, so they can't get the amount they've earned. As soon as he makes his salary on the current account, he has already made one part of his salary, and has already lost it. Also, what makes pensioners charge 50 kuna if they take it, if they get their pensions from the postman? So these are all things where Croatian citizens are actually robbed. Yes, someone will say, 7, 9 or 20 kuna, but in Croatia, a million and 200 thousand people work, which means that a million and 200 thousand people each month give a bank a minimum of 7 kuna and sometimes more, and when that is summed up on an annual level, we come up with these huge figures that you just said. And it's really amazing that this right has been abolished and I think it's even counter-constitutional that not only wages but all other costs of material, travel expenses, diaries, regressions, goddesses, jubilee awards can't be paid on hand. Here we have even cases like this today that the government approves of a regress which, therefore, should be paid to the hands, which is the most important, therefore the fee that is excluded from the performance but it cannot therefore be paid to protected accounts but will have to go to current accounts, the bank will collect its fees, the FINA of its, people will be left without money. So can you explain that a little bit more? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43749	Thank you. Here's a response from the esteemed representative Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43750	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, an esteemed colleague, in terms of payment, means in cash, that is, there are certain other directives at hand, and we recently had one of these is the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering where you simply and all the other certain tax laws simply try to have control over the flow of money and we simply can't do that because on the other hand the bank or charge certain fees and which are here which we have seen are high, we can't derivate some other laws and try to make certain charges. And we see that in the future, more and more transactions will be made through accounts. What happens in the Republic of Croatia is always in your economy that a certain part of the money goes past the account. But what's important here is that we can't see, unfortunately by this law, and therefore we commend it and that it's good that we implemented it, and that for the first time maybe we'll get in a clear and transparent way that these fees are going to open. And all the time we've been trying to say that there's some kind of competition and that these fees should be reduced. However, you mentioned very well here in the Croatian pensioners charging 50 kuna, charging, so here they didn't even take. So here they didn't even take on this part. And the question is, if all these other fees were to be covered and all these other costs to which the amount was spoken. So I just wanted to point out that this business that's driving in commissions and fees is huge, this is a huge business that I, so far, we haven't had regulated, which we now put into certain, at least in this part of transparency. And then, and the question was raised, a very open question by the European Commission because of very high fees and these card houses and banks, I hope that very soon we will be talking about where these limits are going to be reduced and will not be allowed by me in such a way simply so many certain parts of business, and that Croatian citizens on the other hand have blocked 320 thousand people, you have up to 10 thousand kunas blocked by some 120 thousand people. This and when we resolve these issues must certainly be taken into account and resolved by these matters of compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43751	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43752	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Lalovac, we know that the Republic of Eldorado is for banks, that's a fact. By the time the CHF loan was converted, they had earned 40 billion kuna in the last 10 years, then they had some kind of positive zero after the conversion that year. In order to earn more than six billion kunas in a country that has only recently started to grow with GDP, in a country where the economy is not so great. While in their countries where they are domestic banks, probably given the number of inhabitants, they don't make that kind of money, that's for sure. So it's a very interesting fact that they have El Dorado right in transition countries, in developing countries that have not yet acquired a certain level of economy that has developed countries. In this context, we learn today that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has rejected, in fact, its proposal not to accept the proposal of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, to introduce a tax on the assets of banks, which would bring more than 2 billion kuna a year. At the same time, banks are allowed to earn more than 4 billion kunas as you say on fees and fees. So I'm interested in your opinion in this context, wouldn't we and the banks still need to introduce that property tax since we're introducing real estate tax to citizens, why don't we introduce a property tax? Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43753	a response to the esteemed representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yeah, so you banks have about $400 billion a year somewhere, so that's their property. When we talked about the activity tax in this context case, it is a law that is in German, which is in Austria, which is in Slovenia, which is in Hungary, which is in Poland, which it has in other countries. So that's what bankers started saying all the time that it's now some kind of government revenge against them, etc., it's simple nonsense because in their queens they pay for it. They pay for it in their nuts. So, their nuts are being paid into the Austrian budget, into the German budget, into the Hungarian budget, into the Slovenian budget, and so that some of theirs, that's now some sort of government account towards them, it's a legal regulation that operates in all these other European countries, and there's no dispute there that the government can if it feels a certain need if it feels that on the other hand the bank is trying to blackmail the government, in some of its own, have always, normally, to have its instruments. But when you were saying, watch out, this part of 1% of GDP, you know how many states are trying to reach 1% of GDP? We try, we make investments, etc. 1% to you are the only ones in absolute amount when you take commissions and fees. So that's where we have to start introducing order because these amounts that we simply see that more and more banking jobs in the future are commissions and fees. Their primary job is crediting the population, encouraging the economy, investment, not taking fees and fees, and therefore we have 320 blocked Croatian citizens. They have a completely wrong philosophy of the business of credit in Croatia, and they have a completely different one there. In their home countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43755	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43756	Thank you very much. Comrade Lalovac, you've done great analytical work, but nothing happens overnight, nothing has happened by accident. 10 or 12 years ago, in Croatia, all the salaries were paid... It was those checks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the key thing happened in 2002 in a long year, then the amendment of the Law on Payments, the payment traffic between legal persons was transferred so that they could... and not the FINA or ZAP as it was then and it was a preparation in principle for all that is happening today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about how much banks make, banks just sell their products. And 10 or 11 years ago, it was very difficult for Croatian citizens to get a credit card the same way as it was very difficult to get a car on Leasing. However, as a nuclearus, the banks started their products with these credit cards and it spread, resulting in 913 thousand blocked Croatian citizens. Let's look at 56,000 blocked legal entities as many as there are without one employee and how many in the process of blocked legal persons at the nominal amount of almost 80 and some more per cent of waste on legal persons who do not have any employees. So that's one process that's been going on and it's good that the Ministry of Finance started with this law, and I sincerely hope that we're going to build on it. And that we'll regulate. Because look only when you get those piles of bills a month, what you need to pay, so it would be logical if they had that bar code, that it could be translated, not that the stamp is, and when you look at those bills, how much they take from you just to pay those bills. And the total profit of banks, somewhere around 62% are fees and various taxes, and only practically thirty percent get their share of their basic activity. For money is as good as any other, so they sell money, that they may earn on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43757	The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, if I agree with you, my colleague Schucker, ten years ago, the bank didn't get so wasted and they kept saying that we couldn't do it through the FINA anymore, that the state couldn't regulate it, etc. and they got one significant piece of cake, and now imagine what it would be, but if 3 billion kuna could control the state and then the state could, no more fees that it would be 50, that it would be so much, because the fees actually turn into a business, in which in fact about d of these 320 thousand people when you see these problems, not just this account, we're going to have to see, seriously open the question of how to solve these 932 thousand blocked transaction accounts. 320 thousand citizens, that means almost every citizen has blocked nearly three accounts, so they simply can't do it anymore, and now comes our next Executive Law, I've started to say that debt reselling, which is emerging in Croatia, means no investment unfortunately in that part, is emerging debt reseller markets. And Croatia when, I even said that, when I was a minister, So I was even criticised by my government for being able to speak publicly, that it is a private debt, that Croatia as regards private debt because it is according to EUROSTAT statistics, even close to Greece. Private debt. So it's the debt of citizens and companies. As for citizens, 40% of GDP is related to the debt of citizens of the comparable Czech country, Slovakia and these other countries are located somewhere at 10% to 15%. When I spoke to other European ministers, they are unaware of how, how can you have 320 thousand blocked citizens? They don't understand how... So we have a whole other problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why here, not just this law that I think needs to be upgraded, the executive law, the law on that debt reselling. I think these are the key problems of how to solve that part of the blocked because it comes to 42 billion kuna. Croatian companies have arrived somewhere at 20 billion, 20 billion, citizens 41 billion. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43759	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the distinguished representative of Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43760	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with his associates. So right at the beginning, let me say that the HNS Club will support this law because it supported it in its first reading as well as most of those present who spoke in the first reading. The law hasn't been changed since the first reading. It hasn't changed because it's really good, and we've all looked at many other facts that aren't regulated by this law in our discussions. Here, above all, refers to those fees that we all consider too high, to the height of those fees. Is the fees supposed to be? I am pleased that this is included and is slowly regulated through other laws such as the Consumer Credit Act and I believe that this will be upgraded and that we will have a much better law, or much better solutions for our citizens. And even in this law, citizens are put in the first place. I'm glad that's where the concept is finally made that when a citizen enters a bank, that is, the consumer knows exactly what he knows, which means what term. We had a situation that even in financial circles when some concepts were discussed were unclear. It is so good that Article 3 is precisely mentioned and explained their meanings. We have 32 ideas here so we have to know exactly what a credit institution is, a credit transfer, to know exactly what a fee is, a payment order, a basic account, and what a payment transaction is and who a consumer is. It is good that the law also resolves the comparableity of these fees between banks. I know that there will still be problems because finding the birthmarks when all these fees are determined and it is true that they are, it is the bank's obligation to publish it on the CNB's pages. It is known that there must be a minimum of those 10 most representative services. But the citizens themselves have heard a lot of those who use technology, but there are also those who still have the most important paper. And when he gets to the bank, he'll get those favors. But if he wants to compare them, he'll have to go to another bank to get there and then compare himself in a way, but good. What do we do? We have to try or ask someone to do it for him. It is also good, given the level of these services, or the amount of services, that each citizen will receive at the end of the year the exact amount he has paid in the bank. Col. Lalovac spoke, and in other discussions we heard what it was and yet it is good that this paper, or this information, would be free of charge because so far we had cases where any information we should have, as soon as we opened the bank door, we should have immediately paid for that service we wished to use. It is important to take care of the most sensitive group of citizens. But as much as seven kunas mean to them, it means a lot to them. But you need to see these levels of compensation continue to be reduced, i.e. to limit as we have through other laws where we've already arranged it. The law has been settled and we're solving the transfer of accounts from the bank to the bank. So we see that the law really worked out this area, that much has been improved. But that certainly everything that is good should continue to be built into this law. And once again, the HNS supports everything that is transparent and better for our citizens, and so does this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43761	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused several replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43762	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues are the fact that just as my colleague Lalovac had previously said four and a half billion kunas of the bank's fees and fees to the land. It's not taxable, and it's the land of our citizens. These are huge amounts of one and a half percent of GDP. We know what this represents to Croatian society, and so every year about what amounts it is. Four and a half billion kunas as much as it is schools, health services, specializing in students, how much help it could be. So four and a half billion kuna goes to banks and it's not taxable. While imposing taxes on citizens on air literally. And he described and said Mr. Lalovec, there is no need to doubt that this money, that profit, goes to the queens, the banks of the queens that are foreign banks – Italy, Austria, Germany. So, every year, only on fees and fees to citizens 4 and a half billion kunas are exempted. That ministry triba finds a solution to protect our citizens, our budget and our good. They're gonna suck out all our money, we're gonna lose our money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43763	Thank you. The answer to the honourable MP, Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43764	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Bull, I agree with you. I agree that we should take care of our citizens first. I agree that these amounts made by banks are too large but I also believe that this Comparability of Comparability Act will contribute at least a little to the fact that banks also increase competitiveness among themselves, or are fighting for the market precisely by reducing these prices of services. And that's why it's good to keep working and upgrading these laws all the time, and I believe the Ministry of Finance will take care of it and certainly on the basis of our discussions, proposals, come with new proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43765	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43766	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Although the Honorable Secretary of State mentioned it in the opening statement, it is related to the remark I made here in the first reading, and it is not this legislative proposal, but I will do it again because we are talking here because of the citizens' interests. So we support this law and it is certainly very good to see what is the amount of compensation a single bank takes from citizens. However, in the selection criteria, this will not be a criterion in many areas. In many areas, it's a simple criterion of the bank's business availability, because many businesses are being shut down in smaller places, and often times, here I am, the last time I needed to meet with a friend, but I say I have to take my grandmother to the bank first. So not just business, no ATMs anymore. As far as Internet technology is concerned, there we have seen that the low percentage of those who use it is, so most people simply do not have the availability of the bank and bad and this criterion. They'll go to that bank that's the closest or most accessible to them. And the other thing, a colleague of Bunjac opened that topic, same as to expand it a little bit, and that's tied up, I remember when I was working at school when the mayor gave the recommendation, let all schools pay their salaries through this bank. It doesn't have to be anything even illegal, simply, the bank said, we'll arrange playgrounds, so all the schools then used the services of that bank, to pay the salaries, and then if a single teacher said, I'd still be in another bank, then the accountant would say, no matter where you're complicated, now they're all there, now you're special. So these are some problems that occur on the ground, the Ministry of Finance probably can't solve it, but here are the problems that citizens face daily, so it's time to warn the Croatian public here. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43767	Thank you. Dear Representative Macar, answer those questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43768	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Žagar, it is true, the problems exist and I have pointed out them, but this law cannot solve this, as you have said yourself, and we believe that this law is good and therefore it is necessary to see the other possibilities and situations we face at the gym and allow our citizens to get better and more accessible to certain services. That there will always be problems, there will be. But we're here to try and solve this, and we welcome your discussion on the subject, and I agree with you in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43769	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43770	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm afraid I have to find out that these discussions of yours on behalf of the HNS Club, I don't believe anything anymore. You from one reading to another reading, change the policy you represent in a diametric fashion. You talk one thing, and you work long, and worse, you sign one thing, you do the other. Now you're coming here with some opinion that you don't de facto have. Say nicely, "We are pawns, we will vote as HDZ tells us, from now on all four years." I'd really like to see that you have an independent opinion of yourself, but in all the votes that have been over the past few weeks, I've seen that you're only obediently raising your hands and that's how it's gonna be, so on the other hand, here I'm in the future concluding any debate with you. You are simply that trust that you had, both in front of these MPs and in front of your constituents, wasted irrevocably. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43771	The Honorable representative at least will answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43772	... Thank you, Vice President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, pal Bunjac, I'm not unhappy that you won't be replicating me anymore, because all your replicas are as destructive as your discussions. And if you tried and read my discussion or listened from the first reading, it was exactly the same as this, with the difference that I was talking about what should be changed in the first reading, but unfortunately it cannot be solved by this law. And that's why I don't consider myself a pawn, and what you think of yourself is your business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43773	Thank you very much. Now we stop. Have a break until 3:00, when we'll move on with this point and the next points. Thank you very much. It's 1:00. 20 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43774	We continue with the Proposal for a Law on Comparability of Comparability of Compensation, Transfer of Account for Monitoring and Access to the Basic Account. We have Mrs. Dragica Roscic, who will speak to us on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43775	Thank you, Mr. President, I would like to welcome Secretary of State Tufekcic with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Comparability of Comparability of Compensation, Transfer of Payment Account and Access to Basic Account. We already had this law in front of us in our first reading in the third month and it is one in a series of laws that improves the relationship of those who benefit from financial institutions and which improves transparency, which improves and enhances the knowledge of users. Last week, in our first reading, we also had the Consumer Housing Act... How about a little quiet? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43776	Excuse me, excuse me. Would it be possible to allow Mrs. Roscic to finish her presentation, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43777	So this is one in a series of laws passed by the government and that really indicates... Comrade Maras, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43778	And what's going on? What's going on? And I'm sorry, the only thing that can happen here right now is that Mrs. Roscic says what she has to say, nothing else. Here you go, Mrs. Roscic. Don't talk to the MPs. Don't communicate with all the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43779	So in front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Comparability of Compensation, Transfer of Payment Accounts and Access to the Basic Account. This is one in a series of laws that shows that this government really cares about repairing the situation that is happening in relation to citizens against financial institutions. This is one of those to whom we convey best European practice and it is very important to stress and somehow break prejudice towards European directives. The transposition of best European practice into the legislation of the Republic of Croatia allows us to address situations that were problematic in the Republic of Croatia but also enables us to see what has been happening in other countries and not wait for the problem to happen to us but to just prevent these problems from happening in the future. Yeah... We convey only the best European practice shows and, therefore, on Tuesday we had a reading of the Law on credit integrity, and all these laws contribute to the fact that a citizen is really getting to know as well as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These laws that are passed they are not against banks or banks are some kind of enemy to us, they are an important factor in the development of economic society. These laws are precisely for those banks that respect the rules, which adhere to the rules, which are competitive, which inform citizens and their users in the right way. We discussed this on 4 July 2017. What's the paper in this law? It means before the consumer is made liable by an offer or a framework contract, the payment service provider is obliged to give the consumer an information document. The information document must inform it of the fees that will then be charged. It is decided that the fees must be similar and that no new fees can be made and that all banks in the Republic of Croatia and in the countries applying these Directives should have 10 to 20 basic fees which will have one specific name and which will list the CNB and publish them on their websites. It is very important that there should be no fine print in such documents. Even here, it is prescribed that no paints should be used that change the meaning of this document, for example. while copying. So it's been going a lot in detail. This list is updated every 4 years and as I have already pointed out, so it will be collected by the National Bank and all meaning banks in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. their fees will be listed, i.e. their fees will be listed on the CNB website and access will be free of charge. Also, once a year, the consumer will receive free payment service providers on paper or in another agreed way a report on billable fees and interest including charge interest for the agreed overrun. What is more important will facilitate the transfer of the payment account at national level in such a way that the consumer only addresses the payment service provider by which he wishes to transfer the account. We've had a situation in practice when you want to close a bank account, somehow it's always delayed because this process takes a lot longer than it takes when you go to open up in that same bank account. Now you choose the bank you want to transfer the account to and it is due, here are the prescribed deadlines, do it for you, of course you're given one power of attorney. Also, what is very important and what we all ask ourselves when we sometimes talk about that side of why we have to use bank accounts at all, why we have to pay all these fees, simple situations and today's social development requires that bank accounts be used and such a business, and it's important that those who really use it and just say for pensions or receiving disability, that their banks, right here, are exactly prescribed for which, but all some let's say a little larger banks have to make it possible to set up a basic account that will be much better than for those other people who in everyday life very strongly use accounts. It may also offer ten free payment transactions and the law has been applied to all payment service providers, meaning other than the provisions governing the right to open a basic consumer payment account, they apply only to credit institutions offering a basic account. And these are the ones that, according to the revised annual financial reports for the previous year, have an asset greater than 15 billion kuna. The HDZ Club will, of course, support this law, we have discussed today, as I have already said about whether we need to say, pay, that banks take a lot of money, that we will stop without money, but we have to be honest and admit that in some rural environments where we do not have great access to the bank that exactly the use of these and the internet banking, that in fact it reduced these costs and that, of course, with the increase in the use of all these services, banks are making more traffic, but that this law will allow more competition between banks and the reduction of those prices that are not justly determined for the users of these basic bank services. There's thank you and another means the HDZ Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43780	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rostice. We have four replicas, the first Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43781	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dragica Rosčić, indeed here, I must commend your debate on how well you've broken down and very concisely explained the advantages of this law which are flawed, so that here I can fully agree with what you've been saying and I've been very interesting all along, I've been very careful, of course, you've said a lot, and I've been most interested in this transparency and how you understand in the essence of this law that goes to people to better understand how much they spend money on certain services, and how this will lead to cost cuts. So, the debate was very good and interesting, and I listened very carefully to it from the beginning to the end, but I noticed that Mr. Shuker wasn't, so I would suggest that you give him your debate to read, too, I think he'll benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43782	Mrs. Roscic, reply to the replica. Here you go, before the Rules of Procedure's injuries.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43783	Mr. Vice President, there are people who constantly or from time to time push political primitiveism into the Assembly. And today in the debate 238 So, even today when it was a break, Mr. Maras used inappropriate expressions, insulting HDZ and now that he's reported for the debate by justifying his inappropriate behavior while fellow Roscic was talking like that from the bench, which he was warned about, and now he's finally saying that I wasn't listening. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] I listened very carefully, but I noticed that he was very restless, uncultured toward his colleague, so I had to warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43784	Thank you very much. You're both right. Here you go, Mrs. Rostice. Mrs. Roscic, you're going to have to sit down one more time, the answer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43785	No, it's not an answer, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, 238. Mr. Shuker, I've already forgotten that he wasn't some period, once six, seven months, but he's unfortunately injured Article 238, he's been doing it in the past. So, I thought now that he'd rest a little while, he'd realize that he shouldn't insult other MPs and I'm sorry that you didn't warn him, Mr. Vice President, because he's using the word primitiveism, not that it's not collegiate, it's an insult that shouldn't be allowed here, no matter how much free nature you have and how much they allow themselves. I know Mr. Schucker's been here a long time, I know he's been through a lot of things in his life, from the Ministry of Finance during the life of Sanader to that, but insulting his colleagues, I don't think that's allowed, I'm asking you to stop it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43786	Thank you. Mrs. Roscic, you now have the right to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43787	Comrade Maras, I'm glad you agreed with me, but please, I don't think it's at the level to use the replicas for personal communication with my colleague Schuker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43788	Thank you very much. The second line has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43789	Thank you very much. Comrade Roscic, you said that the transparency of this law and assistance, i.e. The reduction in the costs of our citizens is very important in the fees and fees that citizens have in business banks. However, the fact is that you stated that banks are not our enemies. They're not our enemies. They're our enemies. They're their banks. They're our banks. It's huge money at the annual level. Imagine you as a young person how much you could invest in Croatia or direct that money to focus where you need it, not the banks you say will be through the CNB. Yes, the CNB triba have a role to protect our monetary system. However, all that needs to be protected, it is not true, however, that the CNB is doing so unfortunately. This is also evident from the statement and from Governor Vujčić, who says 10 billion kuna was given in 2012, meaning without the cover of the Agrokor bonds. So what was a direct blow to monetary policy in Croatia, means what put the stability of the Croatian financial bank at risk, and for which is the responsibility of the Croatian National Bank. Therefore, there is enormous damage to our citizens here. And why don't we individuals, citizens who want to have their own without a bank account, take their own money without these fees, have at least the possibility, if they had the right to choose, and not to be charged with fees and fees of four means and a half a billion kuna in total without us taxing it in terms of what would be normal. Because I repeat again, what we impose taxes and air on citizens is obviously allowed to milk our citizens. and play with the money. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43790	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43791	So when we conduct discussions, we need to be consistent and not change our thinking from law to law. A few months ago, we discussed how it is possible to say that travel orders are paid in hands not on account, and today we are discussing why we should even have bank accounts. So what I'm saying is that we're not against the banks that operate by the rules that are transparent and that inform our citizens in a sufficient way. And those financial institutions that hurt our citizens and work against them are definitely against them, but that doesn't mean we're against all banks as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43792	Thank you, too. The third replica, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43793	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Roscic, I will do two things, for two things I answered the line. First of all, you said the obligation of the banks to send the list of fees or the price of fees to the Croatian National Bank every four years. Somehow, I didn't think of it before that it was kind of a long period, but here it is. If it's four years old, I haven't noticed it before. Second thing, I have to say it again. A fellow Shuker mentioned today a good bank sale of his products. If we make that comparison with technical products, let's say we take an example of a car. Imagine if a car manufacturer sold his car, his product, and every time a car user poured fuel or changed oil, he would pay the manufacturer a fee. On the other hand, you can't actually sell a more serious product in a technical sense today if you don't have a secure service. So every producer is a trader, technical products must provide services on the territory of the country to which they sell so that people can service their products in a timely manner. In that sense, and my colleague Lalovac said that the banks that have earned 3 billion kunas are shutting down their businesses because it is not in their interest. But did they give their citizens access to their accounts and everything they had to do? I agree again, it may not be the subject of this law, but surely the Government of the Republic of Croatia must deal with this issue, or if someone makes such a profit and sells their products, then let them ensure the availability of these, services of these products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43794	Mr. Sagar, when you're pollemizing, it would be good to pollomize with one person who can respond to a replica, to replicate because you've replicated Mr. Shucker who can't answer you right now, and then it can cause injuries to the Rules of Procedure and everything. Here you go, Mrs. Rostice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43795	I'm glad you've looked back on a number of topics, but it would really be good if after my debate, you could look back on what I was saying. Yes, we can also ask that the Croatian National Bank more frequently audit the comparability of these fees. But on the other hand, the bank also has a duty to give each year a document on which the user sees how much the bank has charged him for these services, so it is also an aid in the transparency and information of citizens. And as for these services, I agree with you in part, but I think you're a little lost in that story by comparing yourself to gasoline and so forth. Of course you won't pay the manufacturer every time you pour gas into your car, but you'll pay for the fuel. It's the same with some transactions and all. You're gonna pay for that transaction yourself, and now I think we're gonna go too far, that I'm not sure if you told the story you wanted to tell to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43796	The last replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43797	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Rosčić. I welcome your debate and, in fact, you are also what the Government has suggested you have particularly apostropheded several times in your debate by saying about the fees in banks themselves, but also the introduction of a new directive that actually things don't happen differently to us than to get ahead of certain things. Every once in a while as users of current accounts, we get certain notifications that we're surprised at when we get them to the address. But I want to tell you here and for the sake of the public and for your sake, that, let's say, some banks two months ago closed regular citizens' accounts without them knowing it and it created very big problems, let's say, to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office that paid off those pensions. Namely, banks should not have done so because of the opening of these protected accounts under Article 212. The law of law and that's what they did. There were also great costs for the Croatian Institute because these funds could not be taken into account by these citizens. But here's the example of this arrogance, the haughtiness of the banks who used that position to close current accounts without the knowledge of the citizens. Which is inadmissible, I hope, because of this failure, it won't go away, just on some kind of note to the banks, but also that the relevant institutions will know how to punish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43798	Roscuit, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43799	Well, this law can only partially solve this problem, but we can suggest this problem, that is, a solution for the same in some future legislative proposals, as we see the government working hard and they keep coming to our table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43800	The first and only individual debate Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43801	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary, we're talking about amending a law that can help citizens. Of course, there will be something more transparent, however, the main goal and intensity is to make as little cost to our citizens as possible, who at these years are visible that we do not repeat ourselves, but it is good to say that we know what the fees are and I will repeat once again on the bank's fees, on the note of the Republic of Croatia, for 4.5 billion kuna, which is a huge amount and we will not speak at all in the way that Croatian banks, excluded from the Croatian people, from the Croatian people, were all our property. How many times has it taken to capitalise to privatise 4.5 billion or 1.5% of GDP a year today, and it seems to me that the former finance minister has been well elaborated here, and the banks behave and boast in Croatian society as much as they want, and that is evident in Swiss as well, it is visible in their pressures in other ways of our citizens' business with banks and certainly do not behave in their countries where their queens, their mothers are, where our money is from which our citizens, due to the fees and fees of lipo, the daily collection base. I don't know the exact number of these fees and commissions, but I know it's a huge number, it's invisible amounts, very small amounts, but here's a year, 4.5 billion kuna. No less, no more and that should be pursued by the Ministry of Finance because the secretary in the ministry and the entire government and all of us how to solve this problem and for which reason, the question was legitimately raised just before here, which is why a fellow parliamentary representative. Why do our citizens have no choice but to receive money? So we have Croatia's mail or our interest is to destroy Croatia's mail and we have thoroughly destroyed it as well as the rest as in the case of the banking system. Of course, control, revision of the CNB, because the CNB has done so much wrong for Croatian monetary policy that it is catastrophic, at least independent and SOA more delegated from those banks that have paid trips and meetings across Europe from Unito Credit and beyond. Therefore, it is not quite a Croatian citizen here to protect it, here 4.5 billion kunas are sucked out of the pockets of Croatian citizens leaving for 3 countries. We don't talk about interest, we don't talk about Swiss, we don't talk about born other money, this is just to make citizens understand 4.5 billion kunas better for fees and commissions. It's a huge amount and indeed to the secretary that I don't have much longer on this problem, we've all sent a clear answer, what to do, and what is the solution? Could our citizens have the right to not pay these fees, to receive the same money in accordance with the law to prescribe on hand with delivery, and employers to have the opportunity and to enable them to do so, rather than to take the money and to place it in 3 countries. Imagine, every year 4.5 billion kuna. In 10 years it is half the budget of Croatia was sucked only through fees and fees without interest. It's a robbery of Croatian people, which is why our young people are moving, which is why 2/3 of Croatia is empty, which is why our fields don't have irrigation, which is why we don't have a well-organized health system, we don't have essentially, we've left money to others who drag it to third countries where the banks are essentially their mothers. Therefore, Secretary, I hope that in the interest of the Croatian people, and I expect you as a parliamentary representative and representative of one part of the citizens, and I expect my colleagues from the left and right, that we will all insist on it together, and that you will give a proposal and a solution to stop our foreign banks from milking money from their pockets, while our young people must go to those same countries and lose that one potential and we lose the population of 2/3 of Croatia to remain empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43802	Thank you very much. We have seven replicas. First Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bull, you said these were small fees. These small fees remind me of that in our shopping malls, 9.99 so the citizens are looking for this one lip, and the trade chains are making billions of kuna on that, in a way and legally legalized robbery. On the other hand, you mentioned that we couldn't, I worked at school and I worked at school, I practically couldn't choose the bank, but we all had to pay across the bank. When we asked them for them, I don't know that they would get paid in the Croatian bank, in the HPB, and that's such a big procedure that you just gave up on it. So what do you think of such things? Here's a comment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43804	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43805	A colleague of Sladolev, yes, these are small fees of 0.1 lip, 000,1 say he has about 500. It is not the right number, but the purchases from our pockets mean 4.5 billion of all individuals in Croatian society 4.5 billion kuna. And of course our teachers where you worked at school don't have credit, don't have enough pay, don't have students free textbooks elementary school kids. In some cities such as Zagreb have larger and stronger environments, but in Slavonia, the Dalmatian Zagora do not have, we do not have a irrigation system in our fields, we have nothing, we have no health services, we do not have enough well-organised emergency assistance in Makarska, the coast in the Dalmatian hinterland. For what? Only on small rewards are these little things. We will not talk about interest, about francs and everything foreign banks have drawn on how much it is to suck up and impoverish Croatian society entirely. Imagine it's $4.5 billion a year to invest in Croatia, not to take out the van? So we should all work together on this, and it's an interest to protect our citizens from this literally stealing and taking money from a pocket that's legalized. And that CNB did not do its job to protect that money and stay in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43806	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43807	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, I'm only going to partly agree with your debate because I'm not some bank protector right now, but every service costs something, but the question is whether the regulator allows you to earn more than it needs or introduces some order and is downgraded by the regulation of the price market from year to year. With us obviously for many years these fees are approximately at the level that you talked about 4.5 billion kuna, when you see what the number of accounts in the Republic of Croatia turns out to be spending thousands of kunas a year that people don't even have at all in one place and that's, say, the quality of this law, that people will become aware of how much compensation they paid if they get the report over one year. I know when I pay for Internet banking, you type everything in and pay two kunas per transaction. So it would be good for people in one place to get full information, and in that way, the banks might even start to compete further in what fees and what costs will be lower because people will be aware that they are big money that they spend without having a review at all. As regards the basic account, we can also make it an obligation to carry out activities in the Republic of Croatia that citizens who want a basic current jury account open in a bank that they must get free of charge of charge to know free of charge. If the bank wants to operate in Croatia, it must enable users to open the account. That's one of the suggestions that could be. I am not inclined to pay off money on my hands because it certainly does not lead to transparency but rather the opposite, the gray economy, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43808	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43809	Banks, yes, the bank that has the obligation to invest that money and that profit on fees and others who have small fees to invest in Croatia, but the fact is that very much your colleague Lalovec has warned it well, surely that they transfer that profit to their mothers there does not essentially stay in Croatia, does not invest in Croatia. So it's legal sucking up Croatian citizens' money sucking up in third countries because we can't control it, about the regulator... talk if you think about the CNB. Therefore, I need to change the law, and money doesn't mean through the procedure that it can... through the bank you can find the possibility that the employer gives a way to sign or I don't know how to control it as it used to be. There used to be... but that she had the right to choose to allow through the legal most transparent same to be, not to be some kind of gray, but the fact that banks don't have taxes that citizens have. Citizens have taxes literally tax on agricultural land, now they will be at all means literally paying taxes at all, and foreign banks absolutely don't. And the fact that on these small fees 4.5 billion kuna comes out of citizens' pockets, and the question is whether it invests here in Croatia. It's going to third countries and it's investing there, it's developing, and our young people are going there because that money's being sucked out of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43810	Thank you, too. The next replica of Ms. Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43811	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here I am until today's debate is the most significant piece of information that my colleague Lalovac made to actually go 4.5 billion kuna a year on this particular fee, so I'm thinking what we could actually do with that money. And not to say that we could also finance with him these most vulnerable groups for which somehow there is not enough resources in our budget. So then I wonder if maybe it's the state's fault that came to this? Could local and regional and state bodies have directed at least their transactions, their salaries to go through a Croatian bank that in that case profit tax means they will leave their funds in their country, not to give them to foreigners? Could we have been able to prevent this from giving 4.5 billion kuna to other countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43812	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43813	There is a basic problem, and you have hit it well before your colleague Lalovac and everyone who has spoken and a colleague of Bunjac what that money means is 4.5 billion kuna does not stay in Croatia. There is not so much problem with service compensation, but the problem is why it does not stay in Croatia. There is a CNB as a regulator to work on that money remaining in Croatia and that money is circulating in Croatia and investing in Croatia, crediting however it is not, is the Croatian citizen increasingly poor. And we've listed all the possibilities where everything could be invested. And as for Croatian banks other than one, we all know how they went into foreign property. Prior to privatisation they were recapitalised and privatised by less than the capitalisation. So much for transparency and public, so much for fighting for the public well-being of all those who sat here in Parliament. It's high treason. To them it was much more important to appeal to European laws, European regulations and to work against the interest of the Croatian man, and therefore we now have a problem with what is behind this minor fee that we do not even feel is a total of 4.5 billion kuna. Now imagine how much interest there is, what billions are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43814	Thank you, too. Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43815	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, I heard from you because you told a lie that needs to be corrected and it's about that, you're saying why the bank can't be changed and who can condition us to open a current account in that bank. That is not true because you can open a current account in whatever bank you want and every month you can change that account, then you continued to receive it through Croatian mail. So they can also do that if you're talking about pensioners, they can receive money by mail under the Pension Insurance Act, especially in our neighborhoods below, where there are no banks, no ATMs. I'll just tell you that for 123,000 pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, the state at the annual level pays 30 million kuna only means to deliver pensions to the address. In the period from 2007 to 2011, this amount was 346 million kuna. So what you're saying, I agree that fees can be less with these financial institutions but when you ask for a favor you need to pay it. If he's going to be a kuna or two, it's very important to the citizens. Thus, in this situation, you are obliged to pay 10 kuna per transaction, or 1% of that net amount, in the payment of pensions through the Croatian Post Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43816	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43817	I wasn't interested in telling the truth, but I wanted to plastically show what's really going on is the truth that people understand what's going on. So you said now that you're singled out the same huge, post office, Croatian mail, well, Croatian mail, here's the gas we know branch office, postal office in numerous, here's in... It used to be, so even that part of what the state pays for the barrel is, some settlements are all they have left, it was this post office, and it's shutting down now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not that bad, it's for some ruby, rue flat ends where we come from. So even that office is enough, so let the state pay something, but the money stays, the postman gets paid, still circulations that money, this is how we shut down jobs. And this way our CNB regulator didn't control that money, 4.5 billion kuna, didn't tax the state of the bank, and that money doesn't end and does not invest in Croatia. Because the mothers of these banks that are here, meaning they're founded in Croatia, they're investing that money in third countries, they're funding and they're povertying us. There's a basic problem. And therefore, the secretary and the ministry and we all have to strive together that this, and especially the CNB that this money is invested, stays in Croatia and does not give us that much money every year 1.5% of BPD, every year so much, I mean it's huge, huge money on small fees. Therefore, I did not say this in a bad way, but to plastically describe to the people if he is looking at what we are about and how much money on these fine fees, undetectable fees, in a large number of fees, hundreds of how much money goes to banks that are owned by foreign governments, which they spend in a way that they do not invest in Croatia but in third countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43818	Thank you, too. Next replica, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I fully agree with your debate because I think we have the right to ask what the fees are. We think we have the right here to discuss and even limit such a form of savagery on the financial market. Did you, when you see me, ask me how much money you make on interest? Here I tell you, I follow that... those net incomes from interest, means net, pure profit from bankers a year from interest is 10 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The net profit of compensation is 3 billion kuna. Now, we're asking the point of their business. It means whether their business in Croatia is investments, to encourage employment, which is the function of the National Bank, whether it is price stability or full employment. So we here have to completely change the paradigms that were worth maybe 10 years ago and see what our goals are. If our goal is, ultimately, to turn our entire banking into a fee, commission, something like this, then the whole function and the law that we are bringing here and the way that they are mainly concerned by citizens is set up. Because look, 7.2 million transaction accounts, 9 kuna is your fee per account, each of you, look, 9kn is your fee. Calculate 7.2 million bills times 9kn that's 100 million euros a year from keeping an account. Now you find a business in Croatia, find me a farmer, find me a fisherman, find someone who will earn 100m euros from keeping a transaction account that we can honestly speak electronically, right? It's an algorithm in which more actually, that electronics actually does without any specific administration. And find me a profitable company that will be able to earn 100m euros from some export business, from some investment in infrastructure, from exports to the market, from fighting the market. So we want to bring the whole situation so that they can't live beyond what Croatian citizens live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43820	Mr. Lalovec, what you're saying is very interesting, but time is running inexorably. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43821	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Lalovac, exactly what you said, and you know well, but it surprises all these figures about the releases of billions, I release millions of euros that are essentially of interest to invest, invest, invest, hire, but obviously not. Croatia has only become a fertile soil to banks for fees, what I have said, again... that they are literally taking money out of their pockets and not investing, not developing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is visible, it is visible in our economy, it is visible by the number of unemployed, demographic images, I will repeat again, these 2/3 of Croatia that are literally empty, and only because we have to protect, not us, but as the CNB as regulator, Ministry of Finance, together with us, absolutely as a key body, Parliament, and talk seriously about it. We have the right to know what these fees are, what these fees are and what amount they are concerned with. And we need to protect our economy and financial stability anyway. Financial stability collapses from year to year, sucking up so much money, it's the role of the Stability Council, where the governor is the first person. It was done when Agrokor was 10 billion kunas without covering what was a disastrous blow to monetary policy, and this is also a blow to the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia, that in this way it is available to the money of Croatian citizens' banks and that they are not essentially meant for where they should be. And it's policy that needs to be through means regulator, through our support and solution to be given by the Ministry of Finance. And all together. So no matter what political sex we come from, we need to protect it means good, our money, our citizens because otherwise we're going to be poorer, and poorer while third countries, therefore, come owners are developing well, and our people are going to work there for small money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43822	Thank you. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43823	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bulj, so I can agree with you, surely we have powerful banks on the one hand, financial powerful banks, and on the other hand we have average citizens. If we take the example that the average family pays from electricity, utility fees, garbage transportation, chimney services to the RTV subscription, so we can say that at least a dozen bills a month pay times 12 months plus then more fees for keeping accounts, then these are considerable funds for the average family. When we just remember how many barrels were caused by the minister in public when he said his intention to increase supplementary and health insurance. And we see how much money we actually get from the average family going into this number mentioned by a colleague named Lalovac, meaning 3 billion kunas for bank profits. Then it is indeed the only solution that the Croatian state and the CNB prescribes the rules of operations of banks, this is certainly a good way and these legal proposals of the House Credit Act, these are good roads, but surely they will need to make even more efforts because if there are no rules then the banks will act as best they do. I say, the banks are financially powerful again, and I can afford it. If you only remember when you took the loan there, I think that in 2009, HROK came to life, when you asked the banks why they approved loans that couldn't return, which fell on bail, so the guarantees lost their houses, then the banks said, so we didn't know, we weren't networked, we didn't know that it was becoming a debt obligation in another bank. They argued that they had no information. So banks need to clearly prescribe their activities in the Republic of Croatia, so the situation will be much more favourable for Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43824	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43825	Yes, when it comes to health insurance for 10, 15, 20 kunas, we're all loud, people are loud, no matter what the health system is in huge problems and the debtor is huge and it's one of the bigger problems. However, when there is monthly account-keeping of 9 kunas, only for account-keeping, monthly each citizen, the bank takes. And he's investing, I don't know. Now, here's 10% of the highway, toll on the highway, too, that's a huge problem on that, but that's 20, 30 kuna, and here at each account 9 kuna a month takes the bank. So our regulator and that money are coming out of our society, there's no such money because banks don't invest, there's more interest than in their countries where they come from. So our regulator, the CNB, has compromised the stability of financial and monetary. This way. Both the Ministry of Finance and us in Parliament, we, which the people have chosen, with experts who must be involved, which is the Ministry of Finance, must give us proposals because the CNB as a regulator must control it. We come into instability, financial, economic, because we don't invest that money our citizens take through these fees, but they come out of the country to third countries, and that's huge money. We're talking about small fees. About keeping an account. Interests, it's just about banks. We can't just because a colleague just told me to be here a banking office in Croatia. So that money of Croatian citizens must be exclusively invested in Croatia, but it must be the CNB as a regulator, and the Ministry of Finance and the Stability Council, but since it is all intertwined with interests, of course the situation in the Croatian economy is di, because money is not being invested where to invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43826	Thank you, Mr. Bull. And the last replica, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43827	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, here during these replicas we heard the claim that banks are actually taking petty fees and that's the point. If I tell you now, Mr. Bull, do you have 1,000 kuna to give me, you'll say of course I don't, and if I tell you 10 kuna, you'll say, here you go, that's some small money. However, banks are conscious of these fine benefits with the aim of taking them away from you for life. So, the goal of the bank is to take a little, but to take it for life. That's the foundation of those so-called so-called. banking products where they actually as a hostage hold an entire people to whom each of us for 40 years plus retirement time 20 or 30 years etc. They're always taking those fees and they're actually pulling huge money out of the country. It would still be good if he owned the bank, Mr. Lalovec, or if you owned the bank. However, the owners of the bank are located outside Croatia. The question is, where do these fees go? Will they be spent in Zagreb, Sinj or Pula or will it be spent in Berlin, Paris and New York? Where does the money spent in Lidl, Kaufland and Sparta and other foreign malls go? Where the money goes when we pour fuel on the INA. Who's he going to? Every time he goes into someone else's hands, our money. And the point is that Croatia has money for both salaries and pensions, but unfortunately instead of spending on the salaries and pensions of its citizens it gives pensions to the Germans and salaries to the French. What kind of policy do you conclude yourself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43828	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43829	I agree with my friend, Bunjac, that it's a blending, a matchmaking, no... The banking system our regulator has allowed and is acting worse than the people who deal with matches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I wouldn't insult the people who match, because through numerous of these fines, basically just keeping an account is nine kunas a month for everyone. So that's what a colleague of Lalovac confirmed, and that's information that no one will deny. And that money that's sucked out four and a half billion just on fees, interest, everyone else, of course, is investing in France, Switzerland, Germany. And it's not here to invest. And our youngsters go to work there for the money they pay here. And we're getting more and more backwards, we're becoming empty areas, we're not investing, agriculture's going down, livestock's going down. Of course, they invest their production, quality and we fail and that is why we all sink together, and mostly the Ministry of Finance, mainly the regulator Croatian National Bank as the biggest culprit of what monetary policy is this way, which is driven, which is financial stability and these petty fees threatened and as a key person of the Stability Council, there is also the Minister of Finance, I don't know who else but most of it is from the Croatian National Bank. They are responsible for protecting Croatian citizens and the Croatian state from sucking this kind of money into third countries, because this money must exclusively be invested in the development of Croatian society across all segments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43830	So that was the last answer to the replica. Does the Secretary of State Mr. Tufekčić want to take the floor at the end? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. First of all, I want to thank everyone for the debate, and I want to thank you for supporting the law. I've remained in debt for two answers to Mr. Lalovec. Therefore, the limitation of the permitted surplus applies only to the basic account while the provisions of the Account Transfer Act apply to all types of account. Now, not wanting to provoke further debate but the truth is, however, now Mr. Lalovac has said the amount of fees paid in 2016 is not 4 and a half but 3.2 billion kuna which is certainly enough and does not reduce the problem we are talking about. The same thing was mentioned here and individual fees. What is certainly one of the problems that is difficult to distinguish between banks. Therefore, given the different services they offer, the different terms of individual fees, the merger of groups of fees into packages etc. It makes it difficult to compare and make it possible to identify which is the most competitive bank. And I just think that this law solves a lot of these problems through standardising the 20 most representative fees, so it's the ones most used by the banks that make the biggest amount of revenue through the release of the amount for each of these fees, in one place the unification of the fees of all banks. It is on the pages of the Croatian National Bank through a facilitated and accelerated transfer of accounts from bank to bank. I think that on one truly market approach and market mechanism we will ensure that I believe already in the short term, especially in the medium term, the reduction of the amount of compensation through competition which will happen through transparency and ease of transition from the bank to the bank through the sequence of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43832	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. It's Mr. Bull's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43833	My dear secretary, you said it wasn't four and a half billion, but 3.2 billion on these petty fees. You have comforted many Croatian people, but we are for transparency to be made public. However, the fact is that you, as secretary of the Ministry of Finance, must say that the Croatian National Bank did not protect financial stability, that the Financial Stability Council in which the President of the Governor has not done its job and in the case, means those bonds she gave to Agrokor without covering 10 billion, that this money is the only way that he stays in Croatia, that investment in Croatia would be what would serve development. But in this way we don't control sucking that money, because these banks that the daughters of the banks send to their mothers are third countries and those third countries are developing year after year. We have to share, it's good that it's transparent, it's good that it's published. But if we don't stop this money sucking together, and the Croatian Bank regulator, obviously this team can't do it, because she sold the gold and didn't ask anyone. We don't even have a gram of gold, and where are we going to protect the citizens from doing so, and she's in charge of the state, so let's put her in charge of this number where, therefore, we have to protect the sucking of money. There's a huge amount of money at work. Now you've been told 3.2 billion. It's a great comfort. But it goes into third, it's net, it's net. What is the fee for keeping an account, when it's calculated to go much bigger... It's 10 billion kunas a year from citizens' pockets go to banks that go to third countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43834	Thank you, too. Another replica, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43835	Thank you very much. Mr. Tufekčić, you said the revenues from the fee were 3 and 200 billion but that is net revenue. So the revenues from the commission and the fees are 2013. 4,4 2015 This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4.5 billion. And the cost is a billion, 200 billion, 500 and last year a billion and 300. So the cost of billions and 300, and the income of 4.5 billion kuna. So what's the margin? Four times. What kind of margin is that? What? Is that a normal margin? So you invest a thousand, a billion and a 300, and you charge 4.5 billion. So don't say it's a normal relationship. So, watch the regulator here doesn't do his job, the state could do more work. I don't see why you can't introduce a bank obligation to run a free transaction account, to citizens who open an account in their bank, that's nine kuna a month, the average price, but brothers, billions and 200 costs, 4.5 billion revenues. So it's pure earnings every year, 3.2 billion kuna, and I'm sure there's no business in Croatia that has such net income and has that kind of profit, that is, such a margin, and that it's legal. And now you tell me is this a normal relationship? Here, please answer me. Is it normal to have a billion and 200 million expenses and make 4.5 billion? I hope this law will contribute to making these profits less, but what the state can still do, and it is regulated also to limit these revenues and to some reasonable level of compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43836	I've seen two replicas, but I've been told by Mr. Bunyan that you've been looking for a replica? A little late, but we're not going to vaccinate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43837	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, we bear witness daily just to the rampage of these fees at every possible level, while banks, bank fees are only the tip of the ice santa. This 9.00 kuna fee is actually the lowest fee to be paid. But here we had a case of local elections, where there were very many candidates and that 90% of them had no funds, no traffic by account, and the banks charged the opening, closing accounts, each bank up to 200 kuna. So I really have to wonder, in every situation that exists, we just have to make our incomes to the banks, practically whether a citizen can walk on the street at all today without getting caught up in any fee. I would also like to draw your attention to the fees charged by FINA, which are also under your authority, blocked, completed citizens. Is there anything you can do to help them? Every kuna taken down by FIN, 175 kuna is charged. One paper printed 20 kuna, so it's simple that today these fees are downloaded by computer programs, can be downloaded at 3pm in the night without anyone being awake and they continue to charge and fees from people who are already overburdened with all possible costs, with all possible fees. Is it in any way possible for this government to finally start working in the interests of its citizens and to save most of its 4.5 billion kuna money for the state budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43838	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met, which means most likely tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43839	Final proposal of the Law on Comparability of Comparability of Compensation, Transfer of Payment Account and Access to Basic Account, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 83. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Comparability of Refunds, Transfer of Payment Accounts and Access to the Basic Account. Please, let's vote. I find that with 122 votes for, therefore, the Comparability of Comparability of Compensation Act, the transfer of the payment account and access to the basic account was unanimously passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43840	Let us move to the second item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Associations, second reading, P.Z. No. 98 The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to this item of the agenda. The law and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. And the debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the report at the sessions. Mr. Darko Nekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, will speak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43841	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome you and distinguished MPs and MPs. As you heard, March 10th was the first reading. In the Associations Act, only Article 13(3) or subparagraph 3 shall be amended. The relevant Association Act stipulates that the statutes of the association must also contain provisions on the appearance of the seal. This draft final draft law proposes to delete that obligation for associations with the property of a legal person, which implements a reform measure to abolish the use of seals from business practice, i.e. the implementation of the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 4 May 2016 establishing the obligation to make appropriate amendments to the application of the rules, which will abolish the obligation to apply the seal. The implementation of this reform measure will contribute to the simplification of procedures that in practice require the use of the seal, and a certain amount of money will be saved. The final draft of the law differs from that of the proposal which was held at the Croatian Parliament on 10 March 2017. Amendments to this legal provision will not require amendments to the statutes of the associations in order to comply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43842	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We have three clubs that want to discuss the seal and one representative. Here you are, the first Mr. Marko Šimić is the club of representatives of HDZ. Excuse me. The first is Mrs Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43843	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow MPs and fellow MPs. The final proposal to amend the Law on Associations is before us. In our first reading we had here all day discussion off topic, so we spent the whole day discussing the work and way of business of associations. We talked very little about the very subject of amending this law, so I will say very briefly now that we support this change as well as any other change regarding removing administrative barriers because this very change in the law is the abolition of one in a series of administrative obstacles. And I can say from personal experience and in the establishment of associations, and also in working with young people who wanted to implement their initiatives through various associations, that this item in the statute describes the appearance of the seal as a clean waste of time, if people don't know what kind of seal they can buy both in shops and in libraries, and then they waste time going back and correcting items within the statutes. So we support this change in the removal of administrative barriers as well as any other that will be found in this assembly, as well as the realization of various initiatives through associations as entrepreneurs or craftsmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43844	Thank you, too. Here we are as long as I want to read one phone call for tomorrow. The Council of the Bosniak National Minority of the City of Zagreb, the Cultural Society of Bosniaks, the Croatian Renaissance and Parliamentary Representative of the Albanian, Bosniak, Montenegrin, Macedonian and Slovenian national minorities Ermina Lekaj Prleskaj invite you to mark the 22nd anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide. The name of this event "Srebrenica 1995-2017." Tomorrow at 9:00 in the Croatian Parliament at the Small Council we call and I join this invitation and invite everyone not everyone interested but everyone to come tomorrow because it is an important marking. Second Club of Representatives, Club of HDZ Representatives Mr Marko Šimić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43845	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable state secretary with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we are facing the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Associations, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in the parliamentary procedure. As we heard from the very beginning, the introduction of this law in the first reading was in the debate in the month of March this year. Then we had a broader discussion than these amendments proposed in the bill on amendments to the law in both the first and second readings, because for the second reading this final bill was actually nothing changed against the one delivered to us on the assembly benches in the first reading. According to official records in the Republic of Croatia in 2014 there are 52450 associations, which is one association of 82 inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. So we see that the problems of the association and everything that is important and related to the associations are really important. In my first reading debate, I gave some brief review of the concepts of the association in society, its definitions, the role of the legal framework proposed to amend the law with the intended consequences, and the final position of the HDZ Representatives' Club on this bill. Associations as the most numerous civil society organisations play a multiple role in every society, they are equally involved in building a democratic open, inclusive, rich and socially fair, sustainable and environmentally-aware society, they are a correction of authorities and a link between citizens and the public sector. The basis for the establishment of associations and the operation of associations is found in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 43, while the legal framework for the operation and organisation of associations is set up by the Law on Associations. In particular, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the 2016 National Reform Programme in Part 4.2 of the lighter operating conditions and better investment climate of the reform area, the reduction of administrative burdens and the cost of business, the central authorities of the management to analyse the rules of their jurisdiction in which these regulations relate to the obligation to apply the seals of legal and natural persons carrying out their registered, profit or non-profit activity in administrative, judicial and other proceedings, business communication and other actions carried out by those persons. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the Law on Associations stipulates that the statutes of the association must contain provisions on the appearance of the seal, this draft law proposes a provision of that conclusion by the Government, all in order to modernise the business process while supporting the economy through the operationalisation of the creation of a simpler business environment in the Republic of Croatia. As the legislator himself stated in his opening statement the implementation of this reform measure by the association with the property of the legal person will no longer have the obligation to prescribe in the statute the appearance of the seal, which will contribute to the savings in the procedures which in practice require the use of the same. I would like to point out once again that this bill is only part of a package of reform measures that should result in multiple savings in the public and private sectors in the procedures requiring the use of the seal. By measuring the standard... model as part of the Action Plan to reduce the administrative burden on the economy, it was calculated that the disbursement of nearly 6 million kunas is, for example, the removal of the seal in the business process, i.e. the establishment of 22 000 970 simple companies with limited liability and limited liability companies with one founder. Therefore, to be able to make savings by removing the seal is only visible from this example where nearly 6 million kunas are said to be possible to save that such a measure has been introduced in one of the other areas of activity. It is important to say that in this legislative proposal, i.e. the final draft of the law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Legislative Committee discussed it at their meetings and supported this proposal, the final draft of the law, by unanimous decisions. Following all the above, it should be pointed out that the HDZ Representatives Club will support such a final draft law amending the Associations Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43846	Thank you, too. The next one is in front of the club of representatives of the HNS, Mr. Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43847	I would like to thank the Vice President, the honored representatives of the motionors, colleagues and colleagues. Certainly very short, given that there was also an extensive debate in the first reading, as colleagues say, the HNS Club will, of course, support this proposal. I'm just here a little bit to highlight the general part of the problem. So a colleague said we have over 50,000 associations. What of the 50 thousand associations should note is that almost 50%, or over 30%, belongs to sports, 15% to cultural ones. At the same time, a large part of the budget is set aside for those two. And what I would certainly like to point out here is that it is always in the thinking that only scientific associations make up 1% or 500th of the associations in Croatia that receive about 5, 6,7 million kuna from the state budget annually. The importance of NGOs, I mentioned yesterday at the Consumer Protection Report, so in developed European countries, their role and their importance are much greater in the adoption of certain laws. lobbying, but also in the implementation and protection of our citizens. So in this direction and certainly we have reports and we are watching where the largest number of associations in the most developed parts of Croatia from the city of Zagreb, Zagreb, Istria, Zadar, etc., Krapina-Zagorska, Varazdin County where the civil sector is developed is certainly an indicator of the development of the entire economy of the region itself, the micro-regional region and the space itself, and that we should certainly always watch as much diversification as possible. And I repeat once again, you might pay a little more attention to the associations they have, which are aimed at research and scientific work because it's certainly the future of our children. Once again, the HNS Club will support this measure, i.e. the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43848	Thank you, too. In front of the SDP club Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43849	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today we have before us a final draft law amending the Law on Associations. In other words, the removal of the seal or obligation to make and the appearance of the seals and statutes of Croatian associations. And when you have one measure like this, no matter what you're going to support, you're wondering if you're part of some American comedy or if this is about serious things. Let's remember last year at 5 months when the former economy minister, it seems to me that a year and 2 months have passed since then, with him and Prime Minister Oreshkovic, if he remembers any more of this gentleman, happily speaking at the cabinet's session, said that we were removing the stamps. So it's been a year and two months, and in companies and now we see only now are we talking about associations, the seals are not lifted. So one such small thing, and I will remind you Croatia is one of the 3 European countries where you have to verify with the seal every little thing, such a small thing, it is not possible to realize it in a year and 3 months. And then the word reform and those who say it quite often, and for the last year and a half, in Croatia, we've almost hated it because of what's behind it, nothing but an empty phrase. You've lost every sense of meaning. And then you wonder, here I am now reading in the morning list that Croatia is left without the European Agency. So how can such an inefficient government that has not been able to solve the issue of stamps for a year and two months, how can this government dream at all, imagine bringing to Croatia a drug agency or a Bank Surveillance Agency, a European Medicines Agency and a European Bank Surveillance Agency? It is a science fiction, we will be left without anything, we will be the only EU country in its headquarters, which does not have the headquarters of a European agency in its territory. While we are thinking about it, while Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is establishing committees, it is otherwise one of the specialties, as we say Mr Plenkovic, to establish committees, until then, means he is setting up a committee that should consider how to bring the medicine agency to the city of Zagreb or Croatia, so far as Helsinki, Lisbon, Stockholm, Vienna, Dublin, Brussels and Barcelona have submitted the elaborates on what their advantages are, in which way they intend to host the Agency’s headquarters on their territory and which are the effects of such a decision by the European Commission. So as we are thinking about the commission, the European Commission has already received a draft, I have listed here 5.6 countries that are candidates for the headquarters of these agencies and which some of them will get these agencies. Croatia obviously won't get them. And now, someone might be wondering why Maras is talking about European agencies when it comes to the Association and Seal Act. Because of what it all comes down to, efficiency, ability, agility, so if you want the Croatian diplomacy that was being conducted over the past year, here is counterpart Miro Kovac here in the Croatian Parliament, where he is sitting, to secure the Croatian position he should have and to ensure the Croatian state's position in the EU. We can't do that. Because we can't change the seal in a year and two months. Imagine how someone here from Brussels or the EU is looking at these discussions, so the Croatian Government will ensure efficiency and all predisposition that the European Medicines and Banking Agency comes to the city of Zagreb unless they are able to implement the most ordinary reform and lift the seal in a year and three months. Well, the European Commission, the EU, does not want to gamble with such an opportunity that such important agencies do not eventually live up to and meet the preconditions that should be for them to come to the Republic of Croatia. And that is why it is no wonder that in this debate at all I mention this example, because my hope and my wish is that this government finally realizes that it has to work, that it has to be effective, that people do not live off the words and promises and heroism in front of Europe who ultimately won't give you anything, because what we are listening to now, Prime Minister Plenkovic will end up doing, so that it will not achieve any result, I guess it is clear to all of us, although we are supporting, and the Croatian Parliament has given 100% support for the position of arbitration with Slovenia, but to say, this is not experiencing what Mr Plenkovic is now saying to anyone in Europe because we are not able to lift the seal in the Republic of Croatia for a year and three months, and this is the speed of reforms that Croatian government led by HDZ and the rest of HNS is trying to create an illusion that something in Croatia will do. And that's why we're going to support this law, we don't mind, and we think it could have been settled in a month, two days, and that there should have been no mention of it at all, nor should Prime Minister Oreshkovic at the government have mentioned it as a revolutionary procedure, if we had launched a new industrial revolution in Croatia or we had come up with some things that neither Nikola Tesla was ashamed of, let alone that we were here, let's say we abolished the seal. So here's the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this bill, but come on, gentlemen, let's move. Do anything, something, I won't even say much now because these illusions are gone, I know they won't do much, but at least do something that we in Croatia could be proud of and the European Commission could say, so, look, we could possibly have a European agency in Croatia because this way we won't get anything. By setting up committees that should now be analysed while others are already minors, we agreed on where the agency will go. Here's a little depression, don't be angry, but I'm sure you realize that I had to say it here because these problems are those that torture Croatia and Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43850	Thank you, too. Whoever says the seal doesn't cause creativity, it's a lie, and Mr. Kovac is probably going to connect to it, but I'm letting everyone get this one on creativity anyway, it's a human trait. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43851	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for the opportunity to replicate. I listened very carefully to what my colleague Maras said and I was delighted with your exposure, thank you very much, you inspired me, right. And not just me, but other colleagues and colleagues here, but I still have some things to clarify. So there is no more Croatian Parliament to support this story with Slovenia, there is a Croatian Constitution. On the basis of the Croatian Constitution, Article 81 of the Treaty concluded that the Government was obliged to act in a way that Croatia would come out of arbitration. So, if someone showed up on the Croatian political scene, who would like to implement that verdict, and he's not going to be there, fortunately we have a consensus with you, and you, with us, with you, will not be able to do so. Why? Because he would violate the Croatian Constitution. It is very simple, there is no more support, things are clear, there is a Croatian Constitution, there is a Croatian Parliament. The parliament is changing, making a decision on changing borders, the parliament said two years ago, and every Croatian government and this government of the HDZ must act in this way. Things are simple. And in this way defend Croatian sovereignty in Europe and in the world, and so do colleagues from the European Commission, colleagues from other Member States also know that. They have the right to their own opinion and their opinion in this case is not relevant. They can show it, they're doing it with that I have to honestly say that it's not really some topic that dominates international relations. There are much more important topics for them than the dispute between Croatia and Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43852	Look, Mr. Kovac, I thought at least you'd be talking about the seal. The answer to the question is Mr. Maras. Please, if you can get to the seal, we'd all be very happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43853	I was talking about the seal. But now the answer is to the replica, and since you haven't stopped Mr. Kovac's replica, I have to answer what he was saying. So don't be angry, I'm glad I inspire Mr. Kovac because that's my intensity. Because if I inspire you, you will be better and Croatia will benefit from it. So I'm my part or I'm trying to do it. But as for what you've been saying to me, I'm sorry, maybe it's not a subject that's number one on the agenda. But the messages we're listening to right now from Brussels are not good for us or they're not experiencing us, they can't make us do anything, it's true. But I wish I didn't listen to messages like that. I wish our diplomacy would try to amortize such messages. I was hoping that Prime Minister Plenkovic, who is in Brussels as a home, he knows everyone there, meets with everyone, is a very good friend of the Europeans and people who lead the European Commission, will do something. And not to be a hero here, and then clearly there, he's quiet. Look, to visit Brussels for good wine and Belgian cheese and chocolate I don't think Croatia has much use for that. It would benefit if Prime Minister Plenkovic were a factor and allowed us not to listen to the messages we have heard in the past days in Brussels regarding arbitration. That's what I would like, and of course no one will force us to do, because we have made ourselves clear on this issue all together in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43854	Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic, the subject is the Law on Associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43855	Thanks for the heads-up. I welcome the Honorable Vice President, dear colleagues. The subject is the Law on Associations or amendments to the Law relating to the seal. I'll talk about associations, I won't talk about Brussels and I don't know what Mr. Maras didn't say. When I speak to the associations, we forget that the very word association means association. We often have a situation today, that associations serve as an instrument of self - employment. What's still left of most people in the head is the association is a set of citizens joining up on some common idea and should mostly volunteer to work on it. Today I won't say it's bad, but associations do function differently. The Association is an instrument of self-employment. Three men is enough, three OIBs, a congregation that is real, a congregation that is fictitious to join together and I can say that it is actually in many activities simpler and easier to do business through associations, and much harder through companies or crafts. So that some kind of gaps in the law, that's what a lot of people use. Otherwise, the association in Croatia has a lot. Here is a colleague who just said 50 and a few thousand associations in Croatia. Today, associations employ about 20,000 people. Today we have various kinds of associations. We have associations, here's the other day we saw here a very nice demonstration of the forces of the associations that are financed from the state budget where we... The towels are placed in front of the Parliament and demonstrated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, associations that do a political job. We have numerous defense associations, environmental associations. But I would also mention here a kind of association that is still what associations should be. The names of the association are called the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Antiquity. I would say, that is, I take this opportunity as the last debate on this subject that should actually be separated, to distinguish the associations of this type that volunteer associations, where people, hundreds of people, have joined, joined, joined without any financial means without financial reason, not to get paid, to self-employed, but to help their city. That society's been around for 50 years if I'm not mistaken. And thanks to this society, this association of citizens of Dubrovnik today is what it is. Dubrovnik is also a UNESCO today, meaning protected as UNESCO's heritage and hundreds of millions of kunas are reinvested annually in the city of Dubrovnik and means surrounding space. I also have to say there are similar associations elsewhere in Croatia. I will mention from Sibenik the Association for the Conservation of the Sibenik Heritage Juraj Dalmatinac, which was created just as a model of the Society as a friend of Dubrovnik's antiquity who works in the same way. So I would like the future Law on Associations that will certainly come on the agenda to ensure that there are different types of associations, some that exclusively serve in self-employment, and elsewhere there is an association of exactly one that the association in its own sense and the meaning of that word should be. People who have gathered, who are volunteers and work for the common good without pay. Although I won't say it's illegal or bad for someone in the association to get paid. That's it, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43856	... He takes away all the seals and the seals and the seals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Maras, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43857	Thank you very much, Mr. Zekanovic. I agree with one part of your debate, but I disagree with the opening part. So, you mentioned even when a man thinks it's so not supposed to tell me that associations in Croatia are the way and form of self-employment, because it can be understood as opposed to civil society. No country in the world that wants to be progressive and advanced, not so that it shouldn't restrict people in this way, but should motivate them. So, I am that the more associations there are in Croatia, that they fight for their interest, for their area for which they are founded. Here, today I met the president of the Animal Protection Association here in the Croatian Parliament, which is very active on the law that we have now had shortly debate in the Croatian Parliament. So that's the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The more people involved in the civil sector, who will fight and develop civil society. And that's something I'm up for here, and I'd like you to stand up for. And all the other representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and that is why it is not good, to come out of position, as if the problem is that there are 50,000 associations in Croatia. So what if there is, no. Why wouldn't there be 100,000 of them? So what if they're hiring inside people? So they found some sources for their work, to fight for something, to make some sense of it, etc. I hope it will not now be related to this old opposition of yours, unfortunately the HDZ, though this part of the HDZ has fallen off which was the loudest, Hasanbegovic and Esih, that it is necessary to prohibit the financing of associations through the government etc. That's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43858	Mr. Zekanovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43859	Comrade Maras, here's what I don't know if you've got me wrong or you're making a mistake, but I'll explain a little bit to you. I personally am the founder of a part of the association, a volunteer, I have 3,000 hours of volunteering in associations. In my organizations that weren't on the back of the state budget, like the associations you fed richly when you were in position. They included about 700 people, so it's about volunteers. I am for the civil sector. I worked in the civil sector, I know what the civil sector is, and I said it's legitimate and good and it's not bad for people to get hired through associations. But I wanted to say, when we talk about associations and what it means to measure, the association is a set of citizens who associate around something and in the beginning it was imagined long before and in the West and in Croatia when it started as a volunteer organisation. Today, I'd like it to be distinguished after all. So two types of associations. Association of Types, I said, Juraj Dalmatinac companies in Sibenik, association of volunteers, Association of Friends of Dubrovnik Ages in Dubrovnik, etc., Association Radovan in Trogir, e.g. And the associations that are still in yours, so you have associations here your association Platform 112, Cesi, GONG, where you have a 3-member association, so the association actually doesn't have an association, and you have a budget of 10, 12 or 15 million kuna. So that's what I said was controversial. So it's not business, it's association for the good of society, the progress of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43860	Thank you. Mrs. Jelkovac. It's the seal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43861	Thank you very much, Vice President. I appreciate you reminding me that the seal is a subject and I agree with you that in the debates and colleagues have really gone a little off-the-book, but since I volunteered for the replica, my colleague Zekanovic, I won't touch the seal directly either, but I'm just going to relate to this thinking about keeping an account. In the future, when a new amendment or a new Law on Associations is made, it is true that some associations are different, because we have to be aware that there are associations, let's call them, hobby associations. But also associations where people get together, like disabled associations, where people get together because of the exercise of their rights, and because of the physical damage they have not chosen, and I don't think it's really fair that these associations are in the same position and because of the different circumstances and problems that then have these associations that aren't hobbyal in their functioning because today they're being identified with all the other associations and they're worth the same rules for all the other associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43862	Thank you, too. Before I gave my word to Mr. Zekanovic, Mr. Maras was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I didn't see it, so I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43863	Thank you very much. I wouldn't answer, but this is extremely important, and I ask you to pay attention to that, Mr. President, Mr. Zekanovic has hurt his ankle. 238. speaking certain untruths, but easy for untrues, we can listen to it, but this kind of attack on civil society, especially the part that is related to the basic democratic standards of the Republic of Croatia, where he mentioned your associations like Platform 112, GONG, Cession, as if that's something they do, focused, politically and not in favour of society, I think it's inadmissible. Here, I ask you not to allow it in the future. I know that Mr. Zekanovic is anti-civil society and that he minds when some advocate liberal attitudes, which are not in line with his worldview, but we live in a democratic country and these people do quality and useful work for our societies. I'm asking you to protect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43864	We have another breach of our rules of procedure, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43865	And this is about point 238. A colleague speaks false and insults colleagues, here personally offends me, and the thing is, you say GONG is not politically motivated, or it's not a political engagement association. And when there was a referendum on marriage, this association, which may well be impartial, has certainly taken over one side. And this side of you has been politically instructed by you and has taken what you have said to the side. So it's about organizations that have political activity. Whether you want to say it or not. But you didn't hear me. Unlike you, colleague Maras, I have thousands and thousands of hours of work in associations. You have 0. You've done nothing in associations, except when you were in power and you were sending money and that's the difference. I'm for associations, you're against associations, you're for political organizations that you can control and you call them associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43866	The tones were a little high because there was no insult. And now Mr. Zekanovic, to answer No, no, I'm sorry. I have to give my word before Mr. Maras. [[And you can't do it before the trip.]] That's the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43867	... I ask Mr. Vice President to protect me, 238 means gentleman, so yes, I mean this way, irresponsible and I would say how to do it without any arguments to tell anyone that he didn't do anything that he had no idea what he was doing in the civil sector in life, then anyone can make any statement. [[Specially enabled.]] I can state that you're from a party that can't get two votes in the election, which is probably true. So no HDZ would be watching the Parliament on TV. So much for your civil work and your civil sector and how much people imitate you. So please don't insult yourself without knowing what others have been doing in life, and you certainly don't know what I've been doing in my life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43868	I'll protect you both. You didn't pick it up, please just answer it. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Answer the replica. And then he probably asked for a break, Mr. Pernar, but before you know it, you have the right to answer. ... You can't have a replica right now. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43869	Here's what you'd do for a colleague. You took advantage of the Hobistic Associations, maybe that's the word I was looking for. And you really need to distinguish, you need to distinguish associations that deal, for example. For people with disabilities, children with special needs, defenders on the other hand, we have really associations that are hobbyal where people are like. cultural artistic societies, choirs and even sports associations, so that it would be my suggestion to propose for future amendments to the Law on Associations. Still, I have to look back on Mr. Maras like this because it was his last, so let it be my last unless he says "infringement of the Rules of Procedure." Mr. Maras, we're all part of some political platforms and you are, and you're in the SDP, if you weren't in the SDP, probably no one would know about you. I'm a member of the HRAST coalition I've been with HDZ, maybe I will be again, maybe I won't be. And when you get out of the SDP, you won't exist, do you understand that? Go to the election without the SDP, and we'll see where you are. So much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43870	There was an injustice to Mr. Djakic, and then we'll give him the replica now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43871	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's a seal, and I'll just talk about it because in the last debate and in the first reading, I said that I wasn't really willing to remove the seal because the electronic seal would be an adequate replacement for this one now, and that would be some kind of savings as it says in the explanation. I think legal traffic will be burdened with a lot of nonsense that will come from those who are villains and who want to make certain schemes for associations. There must be something that would replace the stamp in legal traffic or electronic or bar code or something that must be different from what we've had so far in practice. I believe that my association that has 35,000 members, which has 105 organizations on the ground, 20 county organizations are not any lame association of three members. I am in favour of putting at least as many people as the administrative bodies make up members of the association, not just three. The Supervisory Board, the Court of Honor and the Presidency would be adequate to the need for the association to operate on some kind of legal... basis. So I think that although this changes now as it changes, it is no longer an obligation in the statute to describe the appearance of the seal. Associations may continue to use the seal, regardless of which they do not have to enter it in the Statute. They can put it in the statute as descriptive and continue to use it so that there is no known event for someone to make a certain observation and some kind of a ruse, so the state administration's office is nicely blocking the work of the association and it can no longer work because someone is as long as they stop by graphological skill and who knows what.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43872	Mr. Djakic, thank you. Would you like to answer that? Here you go, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43873	I agree with you when the seal has no ability to manipulate are great, it's a good... good remark with that seal giving you that extra importance I would say. The document is a little more important when it has that seal so I think all those who use it and will still use it because I repeat the seal has some symbolism as such. As for the number of members, well, that's crucial, if the association has what you said 35,000 members, it can't be measured by a platform of 112 associations that have 90 members together because they're all in all associations. And then he shows up in front of 100 organizations, and there's actually 90 people. So it's also very important in the competition that one element should be the number of members of the association. So it can't be a three-member association just like an association of 35,000 members or how many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43874	Thank you, too. So I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when we get the terms, so Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43875	The final word on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed State Secretary, Mr Darko Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to use this opportunity to thank all the clubs that have announced their support for this amendment to the law and to all MPs and MPs. It may seem that this is a small wheel with the stamp cut and our ministry will soon come here to this High House with some new reform measures and I am convinced even more with more reform measures and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43877	I thank the honourable secretary of state, Mr. Nekic. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43878	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Associations, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 98. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Associations. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 118 for, 1 abstentions, have been passed by the Law amending the Associations Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43879	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Personal Name, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 97. The proposed act shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material has been delivered to you in boxes, on the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, you received reports at the session. I'd like the Secretary of State, Mr. Darko Nekic, to give an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Personal Name Act adopted on 12 October 2012 and entered into force on 03 November 2012, with the view that, in the meantime, a new Family Law and the Law on the Life Partnership of persons of the same sex, it is proposed to bring the provisions of the Personal Name Act in line with the following amendments. In Article 3, paragraph 7 is added, which reads: “If the parents of the child have not set a personal name within 30 days of the birth of the child, the parent responsible for the entry into the Matica born shall inform the child of the child’s responsibility for the purpose of determining the child’s personal name.” The title and Article 5 (a) which reads as follows: ‘Back to the last name before the conclusion of the life partnership, Article 5 (a) ‘Life partner who changed his last name, in the event of the termination of the life partnership, may be added to the term before the conclusion of the life partnership.’ The statements referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be given before the parent and entered in the Matica born, and Article 7(3) shall be amended and the words ‘In case of non-compliance and the second parent referred to in paragraph 1 and 2 of this Article, the provisions shall apply to the parents’. The decision of the competent authority will be accompanied by a request for a change of the child’s personal name.” In the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Personal Name, the objection of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament relating to the re-action and deleted articles 4 of the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Personal Name was also accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43881	I would like to thank Mr. Nekic, the Honorable Secretary of State, for this explanation. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43882	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, a respected colleague and colleague. Well, I think the Secretary of State explained these several articles very closely, and I think they are quite clear, as it is evident that in Article 1 of this provision is the prescribed obligation of the queen to report to the competent CZSS on the order of the child, which the parents did not give a personal name within the legal period. So the law currently regulated certain things, but it did not regulate parents not to provide for the child’s personal name, so here is the provision. Article 2 shows that this provision is in line with the Life Partnership Act adopted after the Personal Name Act, and therefore life partners can return after the termination of the partnership within a year to the last name they had prior to the conclusion of the life partnership. In Article 3, a personal name law is harmonised with the Family Law, but the most important thing here is to say that this harmonisation is significant because, in the future amendment of the Family Law, this provision will no longer be needed to change, given that it is here, I would say, in general, and yet concretely, to know what the rules are about, so as stated in Article 3 of the parent dispute, the provisions of a special law governing family relations will apply. The decision of the competent authority will be submitted by parents to the request for a change of the child’s personal name, and in my personal opinion this provision is arranged in the best possible way. And as I said, you wouldn't have to change any more if the Family Law happened to change. Here's how much, the HDZ Club will support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43883	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic, for this debate. Next up for debate, a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras, reported. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Does Mr. Secretary of State have a final? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Darko Nekic, and his associate for the reasons. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43884	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Personal Name, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 97. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Personal Name. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 122 votes are in favour, passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Personal Name.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43885	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal powers. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 3. The Act on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's power to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section of the regulations. The motion for an act has been delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative perhaps want to give an additional explanation? Here you go. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr. Marijo Šiljeg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43886	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. So it's about the law on renewable energy sources high... establishing a general regulatory framework for the electricity sales system produced in production plants using renewable energy sources or cogeneration plants on the electricity market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law stipulates that by 1 January 2017, with the start of work, the Eko balance sheet group will cease the obligation of the electricity supplier to take over the so-called so-called power supply. green energy delivered by that date. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The law after 1 January 2017, an operator of the electricity market sells the total net supply of electricity to privileged producers on the electricity market and is authorised to trade electricity in a transparent and impartial manner to ensure that electricity sales are sold in accordance with the planned production of the eco-balance sheet group. Given the necessary precondition for the establishment and functioning of the electricity sales system, as prescribed by the regulations of the law, the existence of implementing acts that regulate the establishment and functioning of an eco-balance sheet group as well as the conditions for the sale of electricity in the electricity market. As those implementing acts were not adopted, it was necessary to amend the provisions of the law which required the obligation of the electricity supplier to take over the total net amount of electricity from privileged producers from market operators in accordance with their market shares. It was also necessary to amend the provisions of the laws which stipulate that the Eco-balance sheet group should start working at the latest on 1 January 2017, i.e. the provisions prescribed by that date, by way of entry into force of Article 40. The law in such a way that those deadlines are extended as set out in this proposal. As the objective of the proposed extension of the deadline for meeting the obligations of the electricity supplier of the start-up of the eco-balance sheet group as well as the time limit for entry into force of the provisions of Article 40 of the law which is objectively ineligible is to prevent further negative effects on all participants in the electricity market. In view of the fact that the deadlines prescribed by the provisions of the laws of which the amendments were proposed and before which the date of the regulation was to enter into force for reasons of urgency and purpose, it entered into force on the first day of its publication in the National Journal, i.e. 31 December 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43887	I would like to thank Mr. Shileg, the Honorable Secretary of State for this explanation. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Kreso Beljak. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Ivan Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43888	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the regulations lay down certain questions in the Croatian Parliament's section which entered into force on 10 December 2016, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted two regulations on the basis of legal authority at the meeting held on 29 December 2016 in the period from 15 December 2016 to 15 January 2017. The first is the Regulation amending the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and highly efficient cogeneration. And the second regulation that we will hear later from State Secretary Tufekčić's Regulation amending the Capital Market Act. The first regulation of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration establishes general normative frameworks for the electricity sales system produced in production plants using renewable energy sources and installations on the electricity market in such a way that the same law stipulates that, as from 1 January 2017, the eco-balance sheet group ceases the obligation of the electricity supplier to download electricity supplied after that date, which is purchased by the electricity market operator from the privileged producers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the After 1 January 2017, the electricity market operator sells the total net supply of electricity from privileged producers on the electricity market and is authorised to trade electricity in a transparent and impartial manner to ensure the sale of electricity according to the planned eco-balance sheet production of the eco-balance sheet group. So, the eco-balance sheet group, so CROT's producers, electricity suppliers, so that's the group we heard about here and from the secretary of state. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept this report on the regulation and regulations, and later on, only after the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43889	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Šipic for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43890	Comrade Šipić, you're coming from the area where we see the wind power plants burning. Do you know who has the highest profit from wind power plants and how much more expensive the price is than on the market? So there's 25 lips per kilowatt of electricity that's not from renewable energy sources, and 90 from renewable sources. And do you know when the decision was made and why this regulation was essentially made? When the decision was made. Your coalition partner knows that. I'm sorry it's not Ivan Vrdoljak here. In the last government, Milanovic's Government, this decision, about renewable energy sources, about subsidies, which are huge, we talked about banks and fees just before, and here we are talking about fees, i.e. subsidies that go into foreign pockets, foreign investors... The power plants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there is no money left in Croatia except that they have dug up the roads, some compensation has been given to the town of Trilj or the town of Sinj or Muć, but most of the money subsidies go to foreigners. That's what I'm asking Mr. Shileg here, let him explain a little bit how their coalition partner for the time of the SDP did it very well and effectively, and I think he knew a lot about it and the vice president of the Parliament who now heads the assembly here. How the HNS did this very well in terms of renewable energy sources. And now, and renewable energy sources are what Nature Pejnović is or whatever it's called, the thermal power plant on Peraqa. You know. And it's a very high-quality source of restored energy that will damage our Cetina, where you live, which will endanger the largest drinking pool, which is Peru, and the Cetina River, we know what we know about the Cetina Final. There's no road to local self-government and state. Most of the money goes into foreign pockets and there will be I think quite engaged and our diplomacy Croatia, to do this project professionally but to harm and reduce the value of our HEP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43891	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. The answer of my colleague, Šipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj cannot agree in part, given that the data you present are neither verifiable, nor are they, i.e. They are verifiable, but as superficial as they are, they wouldn't get into it, but when we mention renewable energy sources, I know what it means for local self-government, which direct aid. So I can only say when you mentioned it that the town of Trilj of these mentioned remains, as you said the windman at the annual level has a million and 200 thousand kuna of that fee. The investment was worth more than half a billion kuna. Everything was done by domestic companies. So whether it's profit or not, I think, if we had profit from it, and in further decommissioning and further interpretation of a superficial interpretation of how you approach this part, I would disagree in part, given that the data you bring to me is not known, nor am I so familiar with them. First of all, who's to whom and who's to what interest he's been doing, really in that measure, and it's not my measure, nor do I know it. Here's an honest answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43893	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Šipić for his reply. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43894	He accused me of not knowing, that I was speaking superficially, and I admitted that he did not know this matter enough. Comrade Šipić, on behalf of the HDZ Club, you are a serious party who has adopted this proposal, I have told you about subsidies, where 42 lip subsidies go to foreign investors. So there was nothing superficial about me, but it was clear and loud, so I'd ask you for a second time to be more prepared. It's not enough just to read what's written to you, but to study it a little bit, and the chairman and secretary of the Shiljak, exactly what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43895	Dear colleague Bulj, you obviously didn't hear well, but there is a transcript of every debate, so I would ask you to listen to the transcript after the session and no charges were made against you by your colleague Šipic, so that your injury to the Rules of Procedure does not stand. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, dear colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43896	The Honorable Chairman. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a regulation that was adopted following the decision of 2015, at the last session of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, where he was now a coalition partner and party on HNS and then a party in power with the SDP, where a decision was taken to subsidise renewable energy sources, mainly because of the wind power plants, where mostly foreign investors based projects that were also made, which worked projects, i.e. The research was done by Croatia's electricity industry of the Wind Roses, and in the end, this project that was done by our domestic companies, but again through respected officials from HEP went to foreign investors and now a subsidy that is huge 42 June, unless I cheat on secretaries, the subsidy goes to foreign investors, and we know, here I mentioned Voshtane Trilljska, Ilvo Sinjsko, a whole of our coast, that this wealth of our wind, most of the money goes to foreign investors, and that money the Croatian state must pay annually or our citizens from the pockets of a billion kuna. The subsidy our citizens must or must collect electricity, but it was found in the ministry that there was no collection of electricity in that amount because of the work of former Minister Vrdoljak and Deputy Prime Minister Milanovic, that the money again came from the budget... This year, a billion kuna, the next billion and a half, and again a billion and a half, and for 5 billion kuna, there could be mini solar power plants on all buildings, houses, buildings in the Republic of Croatia, free of charge for our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they would reach those quotas that were set in the restored energy sources. This is how the national resources of Croatia are managed, in this case, by energy. So let's listen to our country a little bit, this wind, that our rivers, sources or examples now that it wanted to impose and what it was still trying to push through high officials from the government before the one from now on to push the examples of thermopower plants on the largest drinking water pool is Lake Peruca, by reducing the value of HEP because these projects are becoming dependent and of course everything will follow the sale of HEP. Now there will be a proposal to sell HEP against whom I have personally opposed, and the Bridge has opposed the sale and one part of HEP is a HEP wealth and a huge profit, but we must not allow foreigners to have these subsidies, but our citizens must gain from the wind, from our natural resources, rivers from where we can also create reversible hydrothermia where we can create wind power plants, not on the burden of our citizens. Well, we still have a billion kuna to pay our fortunes. I would ask Secretary Šiljeg here to explain how many subsidies are made to publicly say, when a decision has been made at the government's first decision, this is a regulation that extended the obligations of the government's contract, which is why it was done and what is Croatia's interest besides having the form of reaching the quotas of renewable energy sources and how much of the Croatian budget pays these foreign investors for wind power plants where one piece of that wind power plant wasn't built in the Republic except maybe the foundation and these construction works, which is concrete? Therefore, we must do everything to protect against these hohstappler jobs of our natural resources in order not to endanger our nature, we must use these potentials we have, but we must not allow that money to go into foreign pockets and, of course, in accordance with the sustainable development of each area. Now I'm going to go back to TE Peruch, where the chimney is, I've talked about it countless times, where from a 109m chimney, 9m wide in one second, 780 kilos of exhaust gas, of which 150 kilos of CO2. While we're paying for our cars for a technical check of CO2 where I have to install catalysts of new vehicles for technical checks while those 150 kilos of exhaust gas are the same as if 150 thousand cars work all the time. Here's how much this would be for the Cetina area desirable, and it would go back through clouds, winds, rain on our land, our Sinj field and the wider environment, and it would also endanger eco-production, the eco system, and above all, it's the cleanest water, and that's the river Cetina, and the source and wealth. Because we see that Jadro is now polluted that the Splitian majority of uses the river Cetina springs drinking water, means a huge pool. Well, normally 500 thousand people use that drinking water, and in seasons, up to a million and a half people use drinking water from the river Cetina. The threat of the river Jadra with Lečevica and already appear without Lenice numerous pollutions in the Adriatic is evident that much of it would be supplied with drinking water from the river Cetina. It means that renewable energy sources, that reversible hydrothermias that are in the interest, but only in the interests of the people, not HEP, not to give private investors where they reduce the value of HEP, where HEP becomes dependent on those energy producers that we subsidise to the harm of our citizens. I repeat again, this year we had to find a billion kuna in the budget of the state had to find, the government and the ministry to pay for the subsidized energy of renewable sources. And for that money we could build on every house in three years I'll repeat the solar mini power plant or every building, the Parliament, every factory that we have a renewable energy source, and that would make the family and the individual and the economy more rich. However, those quotas are very difficult to get. The envelopes opened at 31.12.00, secondly before each. I have an example in Sinj where a man of 100% military disability at his private facility has built a solar power plant where he cannot possibly get into the quota of his money to any subsidized, man who gave part of himself in the Homeland War. Therefore, here, it has only been granted, and I hope that the ministry and you respected secretaries will do everything to be in the interest of our citizens, that our natural resources and energy in this case as well as the rest, here you are taking care of energy and your ministry of care and the environment that it will be in line with sustainable development. And it's very good that energy and the environment in the same ministry because it's very important for this sustainable development, renewable energy sources, yes, but in the interest of every human being, and none of the foreign investors who only have from us to get a subsidy of 42 lip per kilowatt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43897	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for this debate. We have a replica of a distinguished colleague, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43898	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, you have held a debate so similar to the discussions you have had about anything where renewable energy sources are mentioned. It means almost identical debate now that regulations with the legal force on the Nature Protection Act are being discussed, etc. So you have this one story that tells us about renewable energy sources that the quotas have been allocated and how much it costs or incentives to cost our budget. But here is the fact of each other, so here the regulation was made because the minister in charge of energy did not adopt certain implementing acts that should have been adopted until a certain period and that there could be no imagined procedure related to the purchase and subsidisation of energy produced in the model that you described earlier. So it doesn't matter about this now, it's just that the minister, specifically here, is either Mr. Panenic or Mr. Dobrovic in a year, and they haven't brought in the acts they were supposed to bring. And we're prolonging it now for another year. So nothing else will happen except that now the new Minister, Mr. Coric, will have to do it this year. So this is where you should concentrate and see why this rule and normative job is not done during Dobrovic's term, i.e. Mr Panenic. That's the main question of this whole discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43899	I thank my colleague Maras. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43900	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We can discuss whether it's a regulation or a regulation, but it's a fact that you're a minister, that you've been through it, that you've allowed us to pay a billion kuna of your government this year, meaning on a proposal from your coalition partner, then your HDZ, and then yours headed by Mr. Vrdoljak who was the promoter, that renewable energy sources are the least important acts. And as for Slaven Dobrovic, Minister, perhaps he should have done it but I know that he opposed this way of funding and that it welcomed us, the minister that he must collect electricity because simply these renewable energy sources should be subsidized with 42 limes per kilowatt. But not to the Croatian man, not to HEP, but to foreign companies. It was dragged to you then as the minister who you were from your vice-president of Mr. Vrdoljak's government. And even if that regulation is now for the extension of those obligations, I am personally to break this regulation but the great damage would have been to the state because of what you signed in the government means these subsidies to these investors, contractors and owners of those wind power plants. But we, too, need protection means our potential, our energy to be in the service of citizens, not on the burden of the budget and on the burden or on the citizens themselves who pay for electricity, electricity. Here's the subsidy, here's the allocation of quotas that were allocated the last second half of the night. Not to citizens who had small solar power plants on their facilities or entrepreneurs, but to wind power plants with a decrease in the value of HEP, are automatically... Because all these... winds were done essentially by HEP, directors of HEP who later built design companies through their family members who would later sell to foreigners those projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a huge shame, and we need to stop it. Is this a regulation, whether it is an extension of the obligations that we have or the law or regulation, some act, that is least important. We must fight that energy, mainly renewable sources must be in the service of citizens and by no means... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43901	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43902	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll say right away at the beginning that the SDP Representatives' Club will not support this report, so for the simple reason you can see it in the report itself, that is, what changes, in which the laws change, with which the date changes. And it's very simple here to essentially figure out what this is about. It is, therefore, that certain terms did not correspond to the HDZ Government, or the Government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, specifically when we talk about the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and highly efficient cogeneration, it did not answer that certain regulations must be adopted in 2017 and it should start to work as the law imagined because, obviously, the HZD did not correspond to that part of the costs must be financed from the increase in electricity prices for consumers in 2017. And then Mr. Dobrović, as his colleague Bulj said, didn't know what to do and didn't do anything. So he didn't follow the law, he didn't pass the rules, he didn't want to do anything, he wanted certain things to be expanded for another year. So my concern is to move on to another one, that is, for a year and all in order for nothing to happen in the 2017 election year. But that's why in 2018, when they're out of choice, we'll have an increase and a ten percent increase, maybe up to 20% that will follow. On the other hand, we have a Regulation amending the capital market law which also extended a certain deadline. Now we can ask ourselves, given that this is a capital market, financial institutions, which is why it is so. And what does not satisfy us in the Club of Representatives of the SDP, you see that both laws, or regulations, were passed on December 29th 2016 and deadlines are changing several today. So no one can convince me that these laws could not be sent to Parliament as they were saying or not, the government did not want and the ministries did not want to discuss these laws in front of the Croatian public in such a way that they would have had in the Croatian Parliament or what was politically harmful and inadmissible or number 2 that they wanted to hide, or number 2 that they wanted certain things, that they had forgotten certain things and wanted to fix it quickly as it relates to the sloppyness and unpreparedness of the promoters and those things that should have been proposed. But I find that very hard to believe, given that certain people exist in the ministries that follow the deadlines and that they have most likely warned the ministers of certain things that must be brought within a certain time limit. So we can't accept this kind of work, so this isn't about any sudden things that the government can't predict, and they happened at, say, the 11th, 12th month, and there's no other option than to pass it by a regulation at the government's session at the time of the 15th assembly break. 12 to 15. 1. So if that were the case, we would vote yes and we would understand that, but since it's not about these things, it's about the opposite things that I just said, or trying to shift the problem to a later period or sloppyness or God, even worse things are trying to hide, the SDP's counsel club, it can't support and we call on the government of the Republic not to do this, but to let the laws into the regular procedure, so that the Croatian public can be aware of what the government is proposing and what changes and what happens tomorrow, and I would say, to Croatian citizens to determine certain things. So here you will define and the price of electricity and citizens have the right to discuss how it will be done in the next period. There can be no reason why the local elections in 2017 try to hide it and thus break deadlines. Unfortunately, we have seen in some situations that the European Commission is also suing the Republic of Croatia, because in the Accounting Law some deadlines have been moved to suit certain companies, specifically in this case Agrokor, that we do not have to adapt our accounting operations so that we all are aware of what their obligations are in essence and what has led to Agrokor being in the situation where he is. It is a creative accounting that unfortunately we have at work at the Ministry of Finance, and I have a feeling that even in this case it is not a coincidence, I would say to some systemic intention rather than that there is a certain amount of time trying to buy in the way that this was proposed to these regulations, and of course everything at the end of the year, not a big debate in the government, the public's lack of interest, because when it is in the Parliament then they participate in the debate of many club representatives and MPs, then very often we get information about what something is done. With electricity, I am sure that this debate would be very interesting and very sharp, so it is clear here that the government did not want such a way of passing the law but rather went to the regulation it had taken at the time of the assembly break and therefore I say, once again, the SDP will not support such reports, or this report because it opposes the way the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43903	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for this debate. This concludes the debate. The proposer doesn't want anything final, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43904	Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority. Please, let's vote. I find that for the majority of the vote, 120 votes, 1 abstention, the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43905	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the State's Attorney's Council of Representatives. The draft act shall be proposed by the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The motion for an act has been delivered to you in boxes. Does the representative of the Justice Committee want to explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to an individual. Dear colleague Gordan Maras on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43906	Thank you very much. Let me just say that we will support this amendment since Mr. Bosnjakovic has become a minister and it is normal that he can no longer be a member of the State's Attorney's Council by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43907	I thank my colleague Maras for this explanation. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points for today's plenary session. Tomorrow we will continue work at 9.30 p.m., on the agenda of the Report on the operation of the pension fund from 01 January 2010. By 31 December 2015, the second item Report on the work of the 2016 Committee on Presentations and Appeals and the Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2015. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Cheers. Session interrupted at 17.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-06-0.u43908	Proposal for a decision on a member of the State's Attorney's Office. The proposer is the Justice Committee. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the discharge of Drazen Bošnjaković, a member of the State's Attorney's Council of Representatives. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 115 votes for, a decision on the resolved Drazen Bosnjakovic, a member of the State's Attorney's Council of Representatives.
