ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56119	Thank you, Mr. President. I would ask for a break on behalf of the SDP club because I would like to talk about the problem of child poverty in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56120	You got it. A colleague, Son.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56121	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the fight against corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56122	You got it. A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56123	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like a 10-minute break for the state budget issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56124	Okay. This is my colleague, Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56125	I'm looking for a 10-minute break to talk about children with spinal muscle atrophy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56126	Okay. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56127	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56128	Okay. If that's it, we'll continue at 9.50. It's 9:00 P.M. Resume the clock at 9.50 hours. We are starting discussions after the break, the first is SDP's Club of Representatives and respected colleague Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56130	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break on behalf of the SDP club because I wanted to point out the problem of growing child poverty in the Republic of Croatia. It's hard to take away the impression that there's actually no one really dealing with the problem. And it seems justified to us whether anyone from the government is concerned that the children in some schools are hungry. Does anyone worry that the rate of relative poverty of children in Croatia is higher by 7% than the European average, does anyone worry that the rate of long-term poverty of children in Croatia is so high that only Bulgaria and Romania are worse than us? Does anyone worry that children’s allowance has not changed for 17 years and amounts to a miserable 200, 250 or 290 kuna depending on the censorship group? The same would be justified to ask anyone the concern of research done by the World Bank, the European Institute of Zagreb or UNICEF? Does anyone worry about their warning of an increased risk of child poverty? Does anyone worry about the numbers they constantly go out with and which point to an alarming situation that requires an unsustainable and urgent solution? We shouldn't have allowed it, we really wouldn't be in the social state if there was no money for children and if there was money for armored cars or fighter planes because it was the defeat of the entire policy, it was a defeat in some way for all of us. It may be justified to say that, the issue of the country's defence is a matter of the country's national interest, but we realize that child care, that family care, is also a matter of national interest because it doesn't matter how many of us we're going to be in 30, 50, 70 years, and we may not have anyone to buy these fighter planes for, may not have anyone to drive. Maybe they won't have anyone to defend after all. I responsibly argue that at this time and in this context, the context of ageing population and reduced childbearing rates demographic policy is a priority and not only that, it is an important national interest as well as the defence of the country. If not more. So, what does the government do? The government at this point seems to be doing nothing, I don't know what it's doing. They are planning to increase the amount or number of children's allowance users, but this increased number of families that will benefit from the child's allowance will still receive 200 kuna. Does someone really think that 200 kuna children's allowance will motivate parents, families to have children? Well, of course not. And when they tell us that it's a population policy or a population measure, it can't be because it's not. The family will be motivated by regular work, motivated by kindergarten, a warm meal in kindergarten, a warm meal at school, free transportation, free schooling. It's something that will motivate families to have children. And what do we do? I'd say nothing again. For example. The government sends a completely wrong message by sharing gifts in private kindergartens, children from a well-being family. It's a bad message, it's a bad message for those who have nothing to eat and who are on the verge of existence. When we talk about kindergartens, let me just mention that in France, 99% of children are covered in kindergartens. In Croatia 56%. You know what that means in numbers? Well, that means every year five thousand kids are out of kindergarten, they have nowhere to go. And that's the problem with their parents, their families as if it weren't for the state, it shouldn't be that way. Currently in the Republic of Croatia 76 municipalities have no kindergarten. I would like to conclude by saying that we should have just sent in the procedure of the new Children's Compensation Act, we're looking for an increase in child's allowance by 50%, and of course that means bigger budget funds, but if there are other things, it has to be for children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56131	Thank you. We are going to a second debate, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56132	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I took this break to talk about the state and curbing corruption in the Republic of Croatia. Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere, every day and on a weekly basis we witness affairs, the impression is that corruption is universal and comprehensive, that every day somewhere or someone is robbed and institutions are often shown to be powerless, they act unfairly, too slow and too late. A culture of calming with such a condition was created, which could not be mixed there, no harm would be done, no wave etc., but we know from Stjepan Radić that neither prayer nor whine can change things but by fighting. It should also be said that we fell by two points in 2016 to 55th place and we consider ourselves corrupt EU countries. It seems that police are also known, according to some statistics, that about 40% of the fraud cases are revealed by a tip, and only 1% or 2% by work alone, by spontaneous police. Therefore, since this is the farthest point in the statistics, it is clearly shown that without giving notices and protecting those who report irregularities, there is no real fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia, nor anywhere else. To put an end to this, in order to reverse the trend, which is legislative, and what the one in the moral and consciousness of Croatian society, Live Wall provides in the procedure of the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, that is, the Law on whistles that will therefore solve this topic thoroughly. The first applicant of irregularities, only slightly tangled in several laws that we have counted here but no systematic solution. In the legislative proposal we are proposing, and it is also made in cooperation with whistles and role models and many other countries, I would only mention.../The speaker speaks English./... from Ireland from 2014, 2015. which proved very successful, for example, in Ireland. This law prescribes a way of reporting irregularities on the work of business subjects, obtaining and the duration of the status of applicants in irregularities in the work of business subjects, the status of applicants with disabilities, the status of family members of the death-sufficient applicant, the protection and rights of notifier members of his family. Rehabilitation of applicants, delirquents and modes of work, defenders for the protection of applicants of irregularities. So, the law, introduces, proposes, a brand-new institution, a lawyer, who would protect, who would lead a special court, about those who dare to talk about irregularities. For them and their families, other than rights, there are also prescribed rewards, which would be given by business entities, as a percentage of prevented damage. We know, and it is known from world practice, if we invest a million kunas or euros in the fight against corruption, that it will return and pay back multiplely, because we will prevent 5, 8 10 or more millions that will disappear in this way, that is, be stolen. The worst corruption is certainly systemic corruption, i.e. corruption among senior state officials. Not only are there the greatest amounts, the greatest power, but there to bear witness, therefore, to a very bad message. How bad a message was sent by Mr. Sanader, who was at the time the top of the state, when he found out what he was doing. It's a terrible message to all citizens, voters, people, because if there's no sanctions for such, what sanctions can be expected for all citizens? The life of whistler in Croatia, we can take an example of Sonja Vlahek from the Croatian Post Office, Srecko Sladoljev from the Immunological Institute or Vesna Balenović, probably the most famous case from the INA is difficult. When you report an irregularity, you open the gates of hell, you start a cell phone, you start bullying, you move, you threaten to quit, you threaten your family, you develop various diseases, you don't have the support of an institution, because it's too weak, or it's too late. The problem hasn't been systematically solved. Not only does this prevent the repression of corruption in these institutions, where someone dares to apply, but it demotes all those who would report to other institutions. If we systematically solve the problem, every applicant will face another 10, 20 others who did not want to see it, expose all these abuses and turn their lives into hell. So we must motivate people to fight for a new system of values, to fight for a new culture in society, not that culture that will speak not wave, but that will say, zero tolerance towards corruption and that will reward and send a message that should reward those who are fighting corruption, and not those who are doing corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56133	3 discussion, Advocacy Club Independent for Croatia and Honorable Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56134	Dear colleagues, how are you going to handle all this, what you're talking about this morning, if you didn't recognize the problem, if there's no analysis, that's what I was saying yesterday. There's a lack of analyticals. And it's nonstop blocking... The media and the people sitting here in the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're cheating on themselves. Socialism comes to an end, someone said, when there's no one left to pay your bills and what kind of socialism? Southern socialism,... Here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How will the state budget be charged? Here, let's do an analysis. You have land, you have one employee, one man retired. How are you gonna do that? You have 300,000 alcoholics, you have 300,000 blocked, you have 37% maybe... capable, just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nothing else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not even what serious analysts are talking about. You have 50% employees in the work of the state administration, do not produce these new values, nothing stats... The former South. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Three, four generations sitting at the same table. There are spiders on them, from here to Split, and what else? Who doesn't see, and this is the key thing, which is to prevent nonstop in the same media, that this is exactly the threat of the former state except 2 characteristics, it has no hyperinflation yet, we have someone who... Who doesn't see it, I'd say, soldierly to suffer... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Inversions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they better get their heads out of their asses, see what's gonna be here for the next five years, like this, here's your parallel back in the '70s, what do we got? Corruption, nepotism, failed state. Why don't you say she left here since '70, '60, '72. A million-and-a-half people, mostly Croats, don't say that. We keep quiet, and you repeat, as people leave, young people. That's what happened before. What's up with, like, who was holding that South? Same thing today. He covered the trade deficit of the Croatian diaspora. They lived on German compensation and lived on... A loan from the West. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is now replaced by the EU, again held by the pillars of Croats outside the country, again saving this economy, and they are up, there are three heads here from the diaspora, etc. Well, there's no IMF anymore like it used to be, so on and so forth. And by that, here's the story now, one story, 51 objects, and we're paying 33% of the former South's debt and nobody's talking about it. And what about the war indemnity? The Germans paid theirs. What did those who burned us here rape on our wife and burn... Nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Like this. Here, I'll make you a state in three months. Give me all these powers. How? Make a moving vessel, judge investigator, army leader behind them, go from village to village, municipality to municipality and make the origin of the property. Because that's where the municipalities are the problem down there where the king's power is stopped on the village fence, doing whatever he wants down there. We have all the laws, we don't have the mechanism to implement them. Hungary has carried out the professionalization of the state administration and there is nothing you can do until it happens, and these people don't have professionals who are trained, trained and trained professionals. And the police didn't get it, the police didn't get paid. And now you expect the rule of law to be expected, etc. Remove social bureaucracy, create a legal framework for investment, origin of property. How can the president of the state have an apartment of half a million euros, and he says he got it from someone. What? You can't bring more than $10,000 into one country so someone doesn't ask you the origin of the property. This is still a dysfunctional state. What about the comrades? What about social property? You're all taking care of a little man, aren't you? What about the assets of the SKH? Alliances of Socialist Youth sit some heads, have 13 apartments in Zagreb, large villas and take care of a small man. What about SuBNOR, the unions? These unions, I laugh when I see these heads here. They've got houses, good money, and people work for the church, minimum wage. And there's no overtime to pay for anything. They're the only ones who got Tito, the party, the barbecue, the butt in their head! And at the end of what nobody's talking about is a psychological problem and a mental circuit that's a major obstacle, not an economic and social one, but this one. And that means you have a head that suffers from this. Everyone's, nobody's. And it's not just with us, but there's all the post-Communist countries suffering from that mental circuit, and that's a problem for a psychiatrist here. We have Mr. Dodig and Field Marshal Petrov to treat those heads and see how to cure it. And when you look at these faces, there's one thing I'd say, look at their faces. They melt butter in the pomegranates, they suffer from so-called. Alexitims. They have no compassion for anyone, themselves. They have lots of money, fairies, etc. And it's just a mere story of caring about a little man Look at their bank accounts, villas, etc. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Just a smoke screen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56135	Thank you. The fourth debate is the club of the members of the Most Independent List of Ines Strenja-Linić. Dear colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56136	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, the honourable MPs. It is time after two weeks to ask Prime Minister Plenkovic what he has solved with children with spinal muscle atrophy. So, while we were here two weeks ago discussing the state budget it was shocking to see the banners on which the messages wrote the Christmas wish spinase for everyone, the children dying, the young leaving and that's Croatia 2017. My life without a wheelchair is in your hands, in our hands. And then, two weeks ago, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic made a promise to the parents that within two weeks, he would come up with a treatment plan for their children. They went on his call, made a meeting with him, and they were very happy that day. But nothing happened. The deadline is due today, but here I am in touch with these parents this morning. No one's parents asked them to deliver any medical records. We heard a few statements from the minister, two, three children. You know what? In this situation, I as a minister would know the name of every child and know if a cure was approved for one, two or three children. He said he would offer the French model of the Fund for Innovative Medicines in which citizens will pay donations and that is the fund, and then the state will cover and give the same from the state budget for each kuna. So he stated that the fund would be able to be paid for each individual child. If a parent can lobby, media presentation of more cases of their child that child will be more famous and the child will receive the medicine. So our children won't be equal again. Maybe they won't get all the kids they need again, they won't get, and maybe they won't get the ones that aren't the absolute priority at that point. So, again, we will not look to medical indications, but we will treat that child for whom money is collected. That's not the answer. The French model is not the solution. In my amendment to the budget, I have proposed a solution and it does not have to be a solution, but I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic to keep his promise. I no longer invite Minister Kujundzic. He had all the time to do everything he needed to do and make a decision, finally to make a decision. So, you should know that in the Fund of Expensive Medicines because it's often talked about in the media about the Expensive Medicines Fund, it exists. The Fund of Expensive Medicines takes care of all our citizens, because citizens and those who suffer from rare diseases are most often those diseases for which the treatment is very expensive have the right because we as a Croatian state have committed ourselves to available solidarity health as much as we can. They have the right to live, too. So there were 900 million in this fund of expensive drugs last year. This year it has increased to a billion and 100 million, there are a whole range of medicines for malignant diseases, for rare diseases and these are the means that provide Croatian Health Insurance Institute for all those medicines on the list. Now that's where we get the spinase problem. This medicine is not on the HZZO list. And for that reason, a special fund that would be for innovative therapy should be made within this fund, for those medicines that are not yet on the list of HZZs but which are also on the list of the European Medicines Agency and which are also, means that they were first listed by the FDA means Food and Other Association, means the Medicines Agency and both of them by accelerated procedure. Why? Because very rarely in medicine, you will have such a revolutionary discovery that you discover about a particular disease that has never been treated before. When that happens then you have to run a race and try something and save some kids from getting to the respirator and that was my suggestion. So to form an innovative medicines fund for innovative therapy, which will be monitored by the Committee for Medicinal Products and Powers according to clear medical indications. then assign your children to whom they are needed. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56137	And we are going to the last debate of the esteemed colleague Ante Babic, the club of HDZ representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56138	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, or yesterday, we had an opportunity to hear from our colleagues on the left for the fight for the rights and protection of workers because it is kind of popular and good sound, and today we are talking especially about poverty in the Republic of Croatia or the poverty of children in the Republic of Croatia or as they said about growing child poverty in the Republic of Croatia. Before that, no one closes their eyes nor does this government, the fact is that there is poverty in the Republic of Croatia, but also the figures say that happiness does not increase but decrease. It would be good for colleagues to report for such discussions when speaking on behalf of the club then to back it up with facts. And the fact is that during the Kukurik coalition, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth adopted a programme of implementation of the Strategy in the fight against poverty and social exclusion until 2020, which we continue and what they did not then, and it was said that the prevention of poverty in the Republic of Croatia should primarily take care of education, lifelong learning, employment, access to employment, housing, availability of energy, access to social benefits and services and access to the health system. My colleague says that the child's allowance hasn't changed in the last 17 years, and that's true, but that's why this government is changing, this part of which is related to a child's allowance, in a way that increases the ceiling for children's allowances from 50% to 70% of the budget base and from 1663 kuna to 2328 kuna, respectively. The number of users, or would increase from 186,000 to 278,000 and 50% respectively, while the number of children in the households would increase by 41%. I'm sorry when a colleague talks about a child's allowance and how it hasn't changed, she forgets one fact, which is that during the government of Kukuriku coalition, the government took a 70m-euro World Bank loan for five components. One of them was the introduction of a property census to reduce the allocation of funds for children's allowances, so by introducing an asset censorship, it would reduce the child's allowance for a large number of children, nearly 70,000. So this World Bank loan was talking about, it's talking about five components, I'll remind you that at the time we were talking about a single compensation centre, one of these components is also related to this World Bank loan. As for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is indisputable that the arrival of this Government has formed the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, that the State Secretary for Demography is not only conducting certain tests but is taking concrete measures, i.e. the Ministry is also taking concrete measures to reduce poverty, i.e. for clearer demographic policy. We also said that here, with all due respect and public administration reforms and health reform, is a demographic reform, reform of all reforms, and it rests on improving the demographic image of the Republic of Croatia through a series of programme and measures which we will be working on for the next four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56139	Thank you. That's when we came to the end of the debate after the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56140	A fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56141	Thank you very much Chairman, on behalf of the Mosta Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes, on the subject of Dalmatia wine.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56142	Thank you. Anyone else? Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56143	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, I request a 10-minute break to discuss the financial malversions in sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56144	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac. Is there anyone else? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's 11:00. 15 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:30 A.M.]] On behalf of the Living Wall Club, SNAGA was requested by a respected colleague, Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56146	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. This week we were already talking about the catastrophic state of football and sports in general, and here's yesterday we learned some new information that I think the public should know about, because that data is therefore trying to hide. Yesterday, on German TV, WRD was released a film, a documentary film called the Mamic case, which explains how money is drawn from Croatian football and who is involved in all this. In particular, one family in Croatia founded a fictitious company in Switzerland. This company is called Rasport Management. Through that company, the money was transferred to accounts in Swiss banks, so that after that the money would be transferred to offshore accounts in Belize, Panama, Dubai, Hong Kong and Kingston. This is specifically about hundreds of millions of kunas, and some say that more than billions in the whole business. Swiss people who are very experienced in such investigations that have investigated German football among other things and therefore much bigger countries than Croatia. They say they're shocked by the scales of money laundering they've been faced with and they've had a very difficult time uniting the investigation, because there were so many ways to get that money out, that it was just very, very hard to catch. What is particularly important to highlight is the fact that the film directly charges that this money laundering is allowed thanks to the political structures of the HDZ, specifically the President of the Republic, which are indeed frightening accusations to which one would have to react. As we know in Croatia, this situation is being covered up in such a way that even the Director of Security and Intelligence has been removed for the time being. We all know about an affair at the beginning of the year called Lozancic, and we also see that attacks are being carried out on the Committee for Conflict of Interest, since it is also trying to shed light on exactly what happened here. It's sad to know, so what we certainly know so far is that there's already been a possible charge of evasion, namely stealing 116 million kunas from Dinam and 12 million kunas of budget damage. While we're watching that same Dinamo, or if you want the city of Zagreb, they don't have a fair stadium, they don't have a fair stadium. Watch out for the only city in Europe, and perhaps in a world that doesn't have a fair stadium is Zagreb and that at the same time the clubs from the small Albanian town of Korč have been shooting up the same Dinamo as an old bucket, that no single Croatian club can last in Europe for years. Isn't this, therefore, a really bad message that in some kind of activity such as sport, such as football, which should be ideal, which should be perfect, which should be common human and general humane, we have, therefore, such a crime that even countries that are members of the EU like, so Switzerland, or the countries of Europe developed not only members. So, I don't know if you've been following these polls, though unofficially appearing in the media. 90% of Croatian citizens, 90% demand that this situation be cleared immediately. I believe it's a very large majority of HDZ members who want this to end. At the same time, at the same time, we already know in advance all 151 MPs know in advance what elections will be in the HNS, who will be president, how money will be split again, and it is really very, very sad that out of 21 HNS council members, even 11 are members of HDZ. 11 are members of the HDZ, which means that all the crime that exists in the HNS can be attributed to one single party. No other party, none in Croatia is present in the Croatian Football Federation. Therefore, all these accusations which have been made, and which have been made not by me, but by independent investigators and independent media, therefore, you gentlemen. For the sake of saving the reputation of Croatian sport and the Croatian state, please generally take the necessary steps to clear these things up and to let the public know what the truth is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56147	I would like to thank my colleague, Bunjec, for the reason of the break. We have another break on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we wait a few seconds for the workers, forgotten workers of Dalmatia wine to enter the gallery. My colleagues and colleagues, first of all, would like to welcome in this House workers, forgotten workers for whom their voice has not been heard from it is workers of Dalmatia wine. These people have been doing and the only thing they're asking for is the right to their salary, to their earned severance. Years and years before their bankruptcy, they had a hard time surviving because their salaries were not paid. Since 2012, the cost of 74 million kuna has been lost, and 70 million kuna has been paid from today's owner. However, the claims of 64 million kuna workers did not receive any kuna. It is a blizzard to the sky that a worker in Croatia, and otherwise in Dalmatia we have many such companies, and Dalmatino is an eclectic example of that. The workers offer solutions, but no one hears them, and when they listen they don't hear them because they don't care about those who solve, so I invite them to listen to the solution of the workers, and I will offer it to them. Their solution is that they will withdraw the lawsuit of Dalmatia to the state if the state has taken away their building that was owned by them at the ferry port in Split, which is now a municipal problem, and it is estimated at 86 million kuna. That's their building, that's what they and those before them earned. In 2010, however, the government of Jadranka Kosor seized the building and placed it in the possession of the state. The workers are ready to withdraw the lawsuit without the burden of the state to return their property. that the state may remain the owner of that building of theirs, but that it may pay their claims. It's about 555 workers. Let us know, some of them told me, those difficultyers who have been in winemaking for two years for their products, the grapes have not received any kuna. Hvar winery, Hvar Prime Minister of Hvar, the prime minister hears these people offer solutions, people do not come here what they are glad to come to, but to get their rights earned. I expect Prime Minister Plenkovic, the finance minister, to be shown and that this problem be resolved which was complicated in 2010 by the government's decision when their assets were estranged. I also have a contract where the building was bought in '67. For years, the building is owned by Dalmatia, the workers are willing to withdraw the lawsuit against the state, and to pay off their claims. And that building has more estimated value than their claims, nothing else these people ask for. They're asking for their right to earn their salary. Otherwise, everything that starts with Dalmatia, from Dalmatia, Dalmatia, the Designer, down there, all the people are forgotten. And thank you workers for giving constructive solutions because of those who robbed the property, alienated you and those who wanted to throw their paws at your building at the ferry port. Thank you very much on behalf of all workers and workers' rights, and shame on any political elite who have forgotten you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56149	I would like to thank my colleague Bul for the reason for the break. We're moving on to further discussion. Dear colleague Mader, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56151	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HSS Club, I am looking for a break to discuss the topic of work in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56152	Thank you. If none of your colleagues and colleagues mind and if you agree, I'd like you to give an explanation of the recess immediately. Here you go, Mr. Mader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56153	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd like to speak to you on behalf of the Assembly Representatives Club of the HSS. Since tomorrow we are all going together in our opinion undeserved annual vacation for as long as a month, we in the HSS believe that, according to all the voters and all the Croatian citizens, it is correct to give up these privileges. Dear Vice President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of all parties' clubs, who work in the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, we from the HSS are urging you to change your decision and to continue our work from Monday. We suggest that we be free only when there are, for example, cashiers in malls. We at HSS think it is the best way for Croatian overpaid politicians to show at least a dose of solidarity to the Croatian poor. While most of you will be skiing and unfortunately enjoy foreign countries, and at the expense of our taxpayers, these Croatian workers will not be on vacation, but will work all the time, unfortunately. They will work to earn their minimum wage and pay a huge tax from which our salaries are paid. Perhaps this holiday season is the best opportunity to show that we, too, are parliamentary representatives of nothing but ordinary people. That we are not a special caste and show solidarity, at least in that symbolic way. And finally, I repeat, once again that the HSS requests that Monday the Croatian Parliament, continue its work and that we do not go on vacation, although we know that the Rules of Procedure are scheduled to pause, I repeat, I demand that we continue to work on the Croatian Parliament as of Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u56154	I thank my colleague, Madero.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65008	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue with our session. The first item of today's agenda is the Proposal for a Law implementing the European Union regulation on the transport of wood and wood products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 239. But before that, we have our hands in the air. We're moving on to the agenda now. First point: - Proposal for a law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 239. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation, the esteemed State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Željko Kraljevičak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65010	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies of Parliament's attorneys and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys. This proposal for a law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products provides for the implementation of an EU regulation governing the transport of wood and wood products and repeals the applicable law implementing the EU Regulation on the trade of illegally cut wood and products of such wood. Unlawfully exploiting forests, cutting, traffic, wood trade and wood products with a violation of national legislation and a weakness of efforts related to the introduction of sustainable forest management also has serious consequences on the environment. Unlawful cutting of forests caused by most of the demand for wood has negative consequences on the long-term sustainability of economic activities that are naturally linked to the activities of forestry such as wood processing and wood production and furniture production. The European Union represents an important export market for many third countries where illegal forest remembrance is very widespread and due to the great demand for wood the problem of illegal cutting forests is present within EU Member States The aim of this law is to ensure the import of wood and wood products produced in accordance with national legislation of countries where wood is visited. Ensure that economic operators and traders place on the market and trade in wood and wood produced in accordance with national law by non-EU and EU Member States. In contrast to the applicable law, this proposal fully and appropriately prescribes the tasks of the competent authorities, the way in which the expert inspection attitude is carried out and the infringement provision with appropriate fines that are proportionate to the value of certain consignments of wood and wood products and tax losses and economic damage which may result from infringements of the provisions of this law. Following this, we have today in the debate a bill that will ensure adequate supervision of wood and wood supply throughout the supply chain from the place of production to the end of the consumer in order to reduce the illegal memory to the least possible measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65011	... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't get a replica because you're out of time. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We've got six replicas, people have reported back to normal, you've reached out after the time is up and you've raised your hands. I thought you were looking for a break, not a replica. Please stick to the procedure. The first is the honorary colleague Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65012	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club, we welcome the adoption of this law because there are certainly a number of irregularities in the transport of wood and wood products, except that we are in line with European directives, we are providing a resorient ministry, forest inspection and customs with one tool that will certainly strengthen the control of the transport of wood and wood products in Croatia. Because our wood industry often complains that first of all they do not have enough raw materials for the final products, that, and that we agree with them not to allow the export of logs and buildings, but rather to end up in final products and on the other hand that there is often a black market on the market, an illegally visited forest, as you state secretaries have said. There is an even bigger problem with private forests and private forest owners who are now focused on licensed performers who often have their own in a particular area and monopoly, so they blackmail private owners, forest owners, self-recognition, self-cuting and most often themselves and doing transport with accompanying documents. And there are all kinds of irregularities. And surely the forest chamber doesn't have the right instruments to take away the license of those who have, who are licensed performers and work illegally. Here I think that by the second reading, we need to find models to fit them anyway, strengthen control and on them. And especially since state luggards used to guard state forests and private forests, now only state forests and private forests are becoming more common because of the depopulation, due to demographic problems, due to the ageing households of the theft of private forests. The most common thing is, at least that's what licensed contractors say is that they find, cut and untie themselves, and the suggestion is to consider, to come back, that the forest advisory service that used to do this, that there are 30 forest engineers, that this is done again by the advisory service.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65013	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65014	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned of course in your presentation and the law of course that we support both the economic and environmental aspects of the illegal cutting down the forest. I'd rather look back perhaps at this economic where first of all let's tell us so-called. The ‘black market’ constitutes one of its kind of unfair competition. And we are sure that those that we must seek, of course, in economic terms, to export more products and as little raw materials as possible because products of course have high added value and encourage better economic development and affect, of course, much more on GDP itself. What is certain is that this law and what we support is absolutely where this system of traceability is being introduced which is about to ensure that the joint forces and customs and the forest inspections that are now going to be held together in their part of the job ensure that, indeed, as little of these black, or gray economies as possible as regards the trade of logs and wooden construction of the performances. So this step is one part being solved, of course you need to watch even more of what I've been saying all along that a lot of these things bring us, what's the goal of it all, and that must be the promotion of the wood industry and the final products, and surely this will have one of the impacts if we talk about reducing unfair competition, of course, and the prices themselves on the market. So once again, we welcome this but to look one step further at how to ensure everything that can be done to make us as competitive as possible in the final products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65015	Thank you. We're going to the third line, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65016	Thank you very much. I agree with the fact that this law is extremely important and that the wood industry, the industry that has more and more space in Croatia, is growing. But standardly, we have been talking about this raw material problem for the last years and all these years, namely that our wood industry 96% of raw materials gets from Croatia, but unfortunately we export a lot of raw materials from Croatia, and that industry could do more if we could find models to avoid the reselling of raw materials and what people say on speedy earnings without much added value. It is a problem that we cannot solve for years in Croatia, which I expect to solve in order to be in our wood industry as successful as possible. Also, what we were talking about earlier and trying in some way to recalculate both raw materials and on black, extracting raw materials from the forest under the company for personal use and then reselling it further, it is a problem but there is probably a very small part of the raw material being misused in this way while a huge amount of raw materials is leaving Croatia. I agree that we should also regulate this dio that brings people out on a little bit of the Croatian forest, but the big problem is that our raw materials are leaving and that some others gain high added value, and this is seen in the auctions that are being organised. If someone is willing to pay 10,000 euros for some logs, then you know how valuable that raw material is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65017	Thank you. Let's go to the fourth line, dear colleague Liposchak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65018	I thank the President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, the Queen. I welcome this legislative proposal first of all and as a parliamentary representative, as a forester and as a member of the so-called. A forest lobby in which even in this House, unwarranted some negative criticism and comments are often heard. This is exactly the kind of legal solutions that actually go hand in hand to all those who put wood and wood products into circulation in one legal and prescribed way. We should all be aware and clear that all wood raw materials cut in the national forests and in those private ones where there are existing management programmes or economic bases are strictly recorded, prescribed and still monitored in the transport of a number of other documents. Unfortunately, some merchants, or let's put it this way, it's the wood pickers who create a certain negative picture of the forest, although unfortunately with these forests, they don't often have any touch points. Believe me, the company of the Croatian Forests and all those business entities involved in the transport of wood and wood products are very welcome to this legislative proposal because it is only going to them. What I am interested in is the professional supervision or implementation of this law, or does the Ministry and Customs Administration have enough people for the quality of the implementation of this Regulation and may we have the information on the amount of wood imported from countries outside the EU and located in our environment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65019	Let's go to the fifth line, dear colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65020	Thank you, Mr. President. And I welcome Mr. Secretary of State and his associate. I'd ask two questions. You see, in this House, we are constantly getting amendments to the law to bring the EU into line with the directives, and these are obviously two measures to stop the illegal cutting of the forest. But I expected you, Mr. Secretary of State, to present some information, how present in Croatia, what is the amount of estimated losses of the Croatian state, Croatian forests because of the illegal cutting of forests? Please present that information. Because it doesn't make much sense to adopt a directive if we don't know what's going on in the country. How many people, citizens, workers are sanctioned for something like that. So we need that data. But on the other hand, we people, this law almost doesn't need it. So we have a legalized way of selling one of the biggest Croatian treasures, these are the woods in a way that sells wood under the market price per so-called. Contingents but the way these contingents are awarded is highly questionable and the Croatian forest is literally to be taken as a bag, shaken because there are obviously places for possible corrupt activities, so if you can get a tree on such a bid, you probably don't need to cut the forest illegally by your grandmother and uncles. So I invite you together to make changes to the Law on Forests where this one way that is completely non-marketable is going to be harmful because this country is losing huge money and we all have to single out so-called. Compensation for generally useful forest functions and we see what's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65021	Let's go to the last line, dear colleague Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65022	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, personally looking at this law itself, it certainly brings well-being in the possession of wooden masses in Croatia. What fascinates us, that after a whole series of years where we see that the problem of wood availability is one of the key ones, where certain corruption affairs are all over the place, where it's called through the media, where when you look at only when you put it in Google, you'll see some new things practically come out every year that are always connected to one and the same topic. And at the end of what? We are actually waiting for a specific EU directive to come, so let's say that we will implement it, we will have better legislation afterwards, we will solve certain problems that we already knew but did not encourage them in this way. Do we ever get in a position to say we have this problem with us, we spot it, our national legislation solves it. Even in future times, we may also set standards for the European Commission's conduct or what we have in our legislation that one superstandard is on what the Commission finds to be a compromise between Member States. Let's put one in a real position to observe our legislation which protects Croatian interest, set quality strong standards that will protect the general interest. At some point when the Commission discusses that we really have a good position that we can also put towards the Commission and say that these standards that we apply bring benefits. Let's become a leader once. In this way, we are always the ones who follow and wait, and the question is always whether this distance is due to the wish of certain groups not to actually change. I think that's how we should approach the laws we're making.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65023	Thank you, too. We're moving on to committees now. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? If not then, I open the debate, the first is the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65024	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Queen, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would start with the last debate, i.e. the replica, expressed by my colleague Panenic, and I must agree in that sense, when we talk about our views in the European Parliament and in front of the EU Council, there is often this parliamentary component lagging behind. Parliament can and should say a lot about our positions it has taken in Brussels. I'm afraid there's too little coordination there. There are also, as far as I know, no committee discusses the positions that the Government is taking in Brussels, with the exception of the Committee on European Affairs, which is manifested on certain matters. This practice should be changed and Parliament should be included, which is also a recommendation from the European Commission, that national parliaments should be more involved as legitimate representatives of every nation and every country in this process. The second thing, when we talk about forest management in Croatia and when we consider the fact that 75% of the area under the woods is owned by the state, that is, its master is the Croatian forest. I must express my satisfaction not to use any stronger word, which is finally, after almost two years, perhaps more, the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Forests has been appointed. So, that someone exists, who oversees the business of that society. And not only has he been appointed, but the board of directors and supervisors have finally been entered into the court register of colleagues and colleagues, after 2 years. And on the other hand, the state doesn't do that. And the state is very irresponsible, to one of the strategic resources that we have, and we'll agree that they're forests. Finally, after 2 years, the state succeeded in changing administration and changing the supervisory board. And you won't believe it, put it in the court register, as the law provides. But back to the law in question, therefore, it is said that this is a bill, which ensures the implementation of a series of EU regulations, which controls wood and production needs. The colleagues have already mentioned that there are a whole series of problems here and I, from the perspective of the SDP Club, can say that we hope that this legislative initiative will contribute to the introduction of more order on the market. As I said, forests in the Republic of Croatia extend to 47% of land surfaces, and are therefore extremely important, we are not economic, but of course also ecological, and also as a strategic resource, which the Republic of Croatia has. Of that area, 75% of the forests are owned by the state and 25% are forests with the right of ownership, i.e., cologially they would say, they are private forests. Due to the crisis and the lack of wood raw materials as well as the low prices of wood material compared to the environment, the growing demand is for wood material, which we witness from day to day. It also increases the appearance of illegal cuttings, especially in forests with a right to ownership, i.e. private forests. I do not wish to generalise, but I must look back on the fact that some private owners, i.e. private exploiters of the forest, are often bad forest masters, that they do not make noise, what Croatian forests are doing and that they do not look after this strategic resource. If we take into account that 25% of our area under the woods is exactly like that, then if we don't introduce very strict rules and very strict controls, we're kind of threatened by ecocid. This law, as the Secretary of State has said, ensures that the imports of wood and products produced from wood raw materials, which are legally recalled in the country of origin, are regulated by the monitoring of the transport of those products in order to place them on a minimum level of transport of wood material, illegally visited wood or products originating from illegally detected wood, in such a way that all supply factors in the supply chain are in the traceability system of wood and products and wood products, which means that the origin of wood can be determined at any moment, and where the products of the processing of that wood have ended, that is, what has happened and what has been made of it. We believe that the competent authorities in the law are well-defined, and therefore, to this all I have said before, which is that the value of forests and forest eco-systems, not only for the Republic, but for the wider, and the important prevention of the illegal cutting and use of raw materials, the level of punishment we consider appropriate. Therefore, those penalties provided for in the legislative proposal. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP Club, I can say that we will support this law in our first reading. I believe that from the debate in this House, there will probably be minor changes, but which we hope will go only in improving, in the direction of improving this legislative proposal and introducing order on the wood and wood products market in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65025	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first of which is a respected colleague, Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65026	Thank you, well-respected colleague Hajdukovic, here I would only make one correction to your quote concerning the position and to seek communication on the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I must say that in front of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture we were looking precisely at having to discuss, which is ultimately the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Law on Cooperation and the Croatian Parliament and Government in European affairs. Here, this morning on the parliamentary committee, we discussed which positions of the Republic of Croatia, which will be presented, therefore, I think it is important that this very parliamentary level, be as involved as possible, because the level of government, of course, is executive and equivalent of European... means European parliaments they also have communication towards the Croatian Parliament and the bodies of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the views and the council of ministers are extremely important for us and should be discussed. Unfortunately, what we see at the sessions, it is an integral part of the closed part of the cabinet session, but I think it should still come to discuss this in both the Croatian Parliament and one, if necessary, if it has to be a closed session of the Assembly body that would be responsible for that part. But I say we maintain this practice and hope that it will increase exactly the amount of such communication in the Assembly and in other parliamentary bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65027	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65028	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Panenic, I accept the correction that I have fenced myself, I said as far as I know. When I was a member of the Agriculture Committee, we had no such discussion. The government reported on the results of the debate in Brussels, however, but they did not do so before taking the stand. And I absolutely agree that this is a practice that all committees should follow. The Committee on Agriculture is a special committee, since the common agricultural policy is extremely important in the EU, it makes one if we speak financially of the strongest financial envelope in the European budget. And I welcome your absolute proactiveness and willingness of the government to do so and to consult the parliamentary committee. And so only the better-quality attitudes that the Government will defend in Brussels can come out, as you said in the first line. Croatia may also impose a difficult word, but take the Union or part of the EU's opinion to the political direction best suited to our agricultural production, so the Republic of Croatia as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65029	Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65030	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Hajduković, you said that Croatian forests are, or forests are national treasures to be guarded and that is where I agree with you. And the fact that there is often criticism from the local population, from those of us living in the forest, with the noise that is being cut too far, that the ethos that is intended for cutting down sometimes seem too special when you look at it to stay naked, that surely people need to be approached in a way that communicates with the local community and that what is often an objection to the destroyed Polish roads, the local roads by those who carry wood mass return to the original state, which is not often the case. But you also mentioned the problem of private forests and I would like to point out once again one wrong decision to abolish the forest advisory service, because now private forest owners are directed to licensed performers. There are a lot of complaints from the field and it certainly is not a good solution, even in the context of this law to make better control of the cutting of private forests and transport, i.e. by the transport of wood and wood products, this job must be returned to people who know that, and these are masters of forestry. There are 30 employees in the advisory service. A hundred more certainly could be employed, thus giving young people a chance, and on the other hand better quality to control the cutting of private forests, maintenance of forest averages, fire roads and similar and also one good thing for both the community and the wood industry and forest owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65031	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65032	Thank you very much. My colleague Vlaović, I will repeat what I said, so I can't talk about absolutes, but Croatian forests are generally a good master and care about the forest fund. So, regular shading is done, it's cut down planically, so according to the rules of the profession, and be careful, so the forest fund is kept, that is, safe of our forests. As for privates who exploit forests economically, I believe there are also good masters among them. But unfortunately, the examples I've heard are mostly bad, and that's why additional controls need to be introduced and control serviced, primarily by the traffic of wooden construction. Because I had different information coming to me and about logs for which, therefore, there was no need for documents that were exported and the like. So, I think it is in the interest of the state first of all to put this under maximum control and penalties provided for by this bill of law that we can say for some Croatian occasions high. But considering the value of woodwork, we think it's appropriate and can serve as a deterrent system of such illegal practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65033	Thank you. Here we go to another debate, the club of representatives of MOST independent lists of respected colleagues Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65034	Thank you, well-respected President, dear Secretary of State, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, colleagues and colleagues. Today, by looking at the subject, we actually touch a part of the tree that we can find in nature. If we go back a little bit, how many situations we discuss here and here, both on the parliamentary board and on the thematic sessions. If you followed the woods, especially the ones most valuable, which in Slavonia is oak forest. They also have problems with attack of the oak bedbugs. There's a problem with no more giraffes, no more materials to restore after cutting. We have a threat, a threat to where it's coming from. Here's a natural disaster that poses a threat, in fact to future forest development, reduces the possibility of an increase, in fact a quota that is in all, emphasizes how even illegally it grows, but that legal part could also be threatened in this amount that is now at stake. But I'm saying it's a natural threat. We depend on the phenomenon of nature and the profession will try to answer it and, of course, take care of it. Then we'll go back to that ok. There's a place where nature stops coming man. A man often makes more damage to his actions than can be done by such natural disasters. If we follow, then we touch the list as something holding that tree, but then when a man comes in as part of the plan of one that the waist has determined to make a cut, the tree is excluded. That tree goes into processing, and today we're talking about products right out of that tree that is one of the most valuable parts. Listening to the conditions over the past few years, we see that this is exactly where the numerous malversions that are being warned about all the time occur. And, of course, facing this problem also raises political doubts and political responsibility that needs to be found a solution. All these years, despite the fact that neither the HDZ government nor the SDP government have adequately responded, not only have they not responded, but by calling each other out, they have warned of the same problems that they had at the end of the day or later. The allocation of quotas becomes one of the topics that is all the time present. Here we have followed the recent strong appeals of the Vukovar mayor who has appealed that part of the quota has been redistributed, that it is processed at the place so that Vukovar may be a good destination for processing. The amount of 50,000 cubic metres was mentioned, a number of doubts arised about it. Of course, by looking at your own interests, each of you is trying to prevent something from causing him a certain lack. We see lately it's gone with the agenda, we've never got a clean answer with what's with it, what's with that request, whether it's going to be realized, whether it's going to be an investor, or whether it's going to be an investor, but it doesn't matter what it is to make a distance out of it, and to understand that people if it's in Vukovar, and also I'm giving rights in any local environment that's surrounded by forest wealth, they want to have a processing in their immediate vicinity, so it's not just to depend on that compensation they get for having forests in their own area than they want to have their own companies, they want to have employees, they want to have development, and it's all legitimate. Well, it's legitimate to ask the city of Vukovar, but it's also legitimate to know the final answer, whether it's 50, 10 or nothing. Of course, solving this problem came to us when we were part of the government, when we had a minister. And there was actually a need for changes in the management of the forest where we were consenting to go in change. But then the deal with, the conversation did not agree, unfortunately, did not come with our partner HDZ, he outlined a new problem. Who? The candidate for the management of the forest was Mr. Bozidar Longin, the candidate from whom he did not step down, who as such had to be the present mayor of Zadar. But I would only warn the reasons why we couldn't accept such a solution. It means that we accept that a man who received 60 thousand euros from the Croatian Forests who was at the time of Sanader is a member of the forest management, to accept that from the life insurance policy paid by the Croatian Forests was paid to him as an ex-member another 42,000 euros, to accept the man who is being investigated by USKOK in numerous procedures and other procedures that can now be listed here. That was exactly the barrier we couldn't stand back about. And then he says why you haven't changed anything, precisely because that change didn't lead to the problem that's been going on for a whole series of years, but only a new area would open up for the accusations and us as political options that we'd bowed to the same lobbys and didn't give us the confidence that there would be changes in the future. We see that even during the SDP government when the minister was Tihomir Jakovina that they clearly warned their leaders that the Croatian forests were an HDZ ATM, but when they took over the management in which direction they went? We had a special report that pointed to problems in the business of the Croatian forests where Croatia's forests were estimated to be damaged by certain contracts by 400 million kuna. What happened to that inspection that found out what answers we received, what will happen to everything Mr. Ivan Pavelic was doing in his day? There's no answer. So it's two sides, but it's the same story. And now we go back to that third component of this, and we can communicate and appeal and pray and expect that there will still be a significant change and that these problems will still succeed once, and that there will be no lasting memory of the affairs and that Croatian forests will really be businesses that protect the interests of Croatia, the Croatian people and eventually even those of the environment. By following each year about our population's efforts to get to the heating tree, we see the great problems that arise. The first problem is that by collecting gas that was once a favourable resource, there was transition, people came back from gas consumption as the main energy to wood. How much has this demand gone up? Certainly not as much as our capacity. But then there was a new problem, and that wood in the woods is gone. Someone has already contracted that tree, a tree has gone to the energanes that generate stimulating electricity prices. Here we discussed the stimulating electricity prices of what Croatian citizens will have to pay and this remains a permanent mention of contracts that in the good part, I will not say all, but one good part of them was extremely unfavourable. On the other hand, a secondary effect that we often didn't mention, which is a lack of wood mass that no longer exists for those who depended on it. Now go and prepare a tree we see that it becomes a big problem where the prices of the cubes this winter have reached 400 kuna per cubic metre. That puts our citizens' standards directly at risk. And by leading one responsible policy, surely those who propose certain measures would see not only the direct consequences of their decision but also these indirect ones. Unfortunately, it seems that a certain time should pass, that a certain political group should appear who will not succumb to such pressures to warn and demand these problems from all those who make decisions to think absolutely about all the effects and not just those who may be convenient to communicate or those who come directly. Here's a recent sighting of an affair created around GIRK-KALUN about the export of waste mud from the sewers, perhaps someone didn't notice an interesting statement about it. The Sibenik-Knin County Assembly also discussed the problem, so Mayor Spider said at the assembly that the company in its energy company, you remember that it was, that they should burn that mud so that they in their energy plants burn the heating tree. I got it stuck in my eye, so not to burn this or that or some waste, or that, but they're burning the heating tree, that warm tree that the citizens are missing, that the citizens were looking for, expensive at the end, they burned it there, and then one politician said, that's exactly what confirmed, that's exactly what happened. So you can't get to the wood, it's already fried by someone to achieve an additional goal that is certainly not in the interest of citizens or society as a whole. And that's why this law, it's actually part of a whole problem that we can consider. And just in my replica, I have indicated that we need to have a more significant impact on the treatment of wood mass as a resource, that it must be an integrated policy that will no longer allow these great affairs to arise and I may have touched only one piece of it, the one that may have been the most sound but I haven't entered so deeply since then my debate could not last for 15 minutes, but could practically talk about one and the same problem all day, and I hope that we will put in this House along with the proposal of this Government laws that will be above the standard of what we are adopting today and that we will become one quality, a real example in the EU of how to manage our own treasures, not only wood as such as here we have now and water resources in which there are numerous polemics, governance, pollution around Cetina, Peru and everything else. So, let's find out for once that we want to protect certain resources as a national priority, and then we'll all be unique together in that it will become a protected category Constitution and that we will protect individuals with each of our own procedures, especially in the responsible functions that govern these resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65035	Comrade Bull, here's what we're going to do, so we're going to give you five replicas now and then we're going to take a break after that. My colleague Bulj announced a break, and he'll explain why, but we're just going to do five lines first. The first is a respected colleague of Sladolev's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65036	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Panenic, you spoke of a centralized system that we have, you mentioned an example of Vukovar. I will mention another example that may be even more pronounced, which is an example of Delnice and Gorski Kotar. So it's a beautiful neighborhood which is actually, therefore, full and rich in forests. And speaking to these people, specifically the mayor of Delnice about a year ago, he told me one actually shocking thing. So they took bread from our mouths, so they took our natural resource. And he compared it to imagine that Dalmatia was taken so much as they took from us by the tree take away the mariculture, that we could no longer deal with mariculture. And then we wonder that from such a beautiful neighborhood as Gorski Kotar people are moving out. And he still mentioned to me, not only did they take away our tree, so it's our natural resource that we live from, but those great concessionaries with their huge boots driving that tree destroys the roads and they don't actually get any compensation from the state for destroying those roads. And not only is Gorski Kotar of its wood no use but we actually have now a system that is not even controlled, which is actually centralized and that actually for the local community has damage and does not benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65037	Here's your answer, pal Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65038	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sladolev, definitely that in conditions where we don't have a national management strategy just such an essential resource that all initiatives can pass. And then they can also show up big players because we need to be aware that establishing production in one location is certainly simpler and then bringing wood mass to that location than establishing a series of production plants, first of all, the Republic of Croatia where there is wood mass. No one really sees the problems of the local community. Because the fee from just using the forest comes only at the moment when it is being remembered, so the amount is being calculated and it is being paid into that local budget, it is controversial, so you just can't count on it as one quality income, you can't plan to develop a local community on something that's forest wealth that's actually supposed to be a constant inflow that this community is developing. And this damage to infrastructure such as road definitely requires programs that are present every year. And then the man wonders whether that income even covers both the cost or the head man appears again, and the local self-government that comes back to some Croatian ministry, there must apply, pray that his area is a priority and on the other hand he has secured state budget financing through some other models based on that wooden mass that is excluded. Until we change philosophy to a little, medium entrepreneurship becomes our foundation, until the great processors, the producers will actually use this situation and we will not have the overall integrated development as we like to say, vertical development but will be such that one raw base and a very small number of them... capacity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65039	Another replica, dear colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65040	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Panenic, I listened to your presentation, the fact that we do not have a strategy for managing Croatian forests is as you say extremely worrying. And I've been getting over the past year from Banovina, Gorski Kotar, Bjelovar-Bilogor County certain memos about how to devast and illegally cut the forest, even sending me some photos. Do you think that this lack of a management strategy is random or is it part of the system of operations of past governments and people who have managed that resources? Forests as we know make up 48% of Croatia's surface, and they are really one of the most important resources we have, and here when we see and after they're sold on the team, you mentioned how certain tree contingents are assigned to, so we mentioned Vukovar and the blackmails of foreign investors who are looking for a certain amount of forest will make there and there some processing, which makes you think about whether this is an accident that there is no strategy, or maybe it's a business strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65041	I thank my esteemed colleague Lovrinovic. The answer of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65042	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lovrinović, we are already so experienced in this, although we are not long enough to know that coincidences are no more. Just imagine the ideal situation in which the annual plan of cutting the forest would be worked, in which it would be clearly indicated which area of these forests it was going from, where it would be a proposal to whom this mass is going and to include representatives of the local community that they would discuss, that they would see exactly how much they would cut themselves, to see who it was going to be, what is planned with that mass. Imagine that transparency. It's something I'm afraid no one dares to think of those who are currently managing that resource because it would create a series of problems for the plans they currently have. But on the other hand, we're gonna have to come to that one. The pressure of the public and us who represent this very public who wants that change to grow. I hope we don't just stay on this legislative one act but that in practice it will become a real model for us to be proud of. No one will have a problem with indicating what they want to do, which is the goal, which is the strategic goal, which is what we will do as a society and then we will not discuss the trucks that drive abroad, wood mass, trees, logs that are not already completed, we will not discuss for which degree of finalisation is how far away it is, but of course there will be intensity and every local self-government leader that comes from the wood mass that is cut into its area as much as possible, and in the end that he can feel the greatest degree of well-being for his city, municipality or any other area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65043	I thank my colleague Panenić for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65044	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Panenic, here we have on the table a law transposing a regulation, so from the EU that is trying to regulate some issues. However, you presented yourself in your presentation of certain examples. I wonder, here you are in the end, since Croatia, we all know it is extremely rich in forest, so almost 50% of the area is covered in forest, it is an extremely valuable resource. The resources that enables a lot of things, so if we are going to talk about greenhouse gas balances, it is extremely important here, a resource that has a significant annual growth that gives this potential for the economy, and which we have heard from your example, shows that we in Croatia are pretty bad masters of that resource, it is given to us to manage, we have not planted it, and in the end it turns out that we do not know even correctly to the general benefit, to encourage the local economy to manage it. So I wonder if you think there is even hope that Croatian politics will be resolved, fenced by individuals who are making irregularities in the sector, and what does this regulation mean in a positive shift, so the situation in Croatia regarding the forest economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65045	I thank my colleague Dobrovic. The answer of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65046	Thank you very much. Dear Dobrović, we are always full of mouth and device when we talk about our resources, we mention both the forests and the areas that are represented in Croatia, for example. and the waters that are also represented and then we are just coming up with the problem of our strategic framework that we will manage in future time with something that, you said yourself, we are not alone responsible for what this exists but we will be more responsible in future time for being a resource that we will be able to be proud of. Of course, the interest of every society is that the resources that are always and we see in future times to hint, are always what they would say, limited, used in the most efficient way. Of course, we must strive to also manage the wood mass to take advantage of that last cubic millimeter of that mass to bring as much revenue to this society as possible. This way, so far as the practice has shown, definitely, that it doesn't indicate that we're going in this direction, but we're going to become a base, to use what's most valuable. If we just tied up, if the use of that most valuable part of the mass had to be related to both the use and the less valuable, then efficiency would be much higher. But that's also sometimes here, in the conversation I've talked about and in my speech and mentioned, questionablely, when and what belongs to a waste is beginning to be a problem. The problem for the residents, who would use it as a source mass, on the other hand, others who would use it, as an energy spoke for the Energans. Then we see that we simply have no policy, nor, politicians should discuss this, we should transfer it to the profession, and then the responsibility of the profession would still be more significant than political responsibility, and even here in this House where we sit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65047	I thank my colleague Panenic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65048	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenic. In your debate, you have identified many problems related to Croatian forests, although this is not directly related to this law, but because 75% of the forest is owned by Croatian forests, there is also a certain connection. Croatia's forests have had a lot of concerns about traceability, labelling and everything else so far. However, that in the Croatian forests, there are major problems, there I absolutely agree with you. And now looking at the position of finalists or saws, there must be different opinions. All those with sawmills, close to the forest, think they should have absolute priority. And it's all good, until the moment those boards came out of the sawmill and went to our finalists. As a rule, however, most of such planks come out on the outside market where they are sold. Our finalists, again, who have installed the capacity of sawmills, believe that they have priority and when they sell the product on the foreign market, that there is, a product added value, that employs more people and there is an eternal problem. That we should pass one whole law and look at it. However, I am now interested, specifically, in you have criticised both the HDZ government and the SDP government. I agree there were a lot of problems. However, did you have a specific proposal to solve these problems during the period when you participated in the government or whether you have it now so that you can share it with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65049	I thank my colleague Makar, the answer, my colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65050	Thank you very much. In my speech, too, I have just mentioned the problems that have arisen over the very model of changing the management of the forest that they thought could not lead the government policy that HDZ and Most were doing at the time. But there was no understanding, there was an open potential for a new problem, which we were not ready to accept at the time. And exactly how to implement politics, if the tool to implement this policy is not responsible for the government that wants to change. And then, of course, there are problems that have not been resolved during the term of office when there is Minister Romic, minister of agriculture. What the second part of your comment would answer, of course considering the allocation of quotas, the distribution of actually the quota, must be sometimes more complex than it does now in law both. They are also rightly gasmen located in the area where the forests are located. They're right and they're finalists, and each of them thinks they have to have a piece of that cake. What would actually be interested in us as a society, is their connection and that they become an economic unit. In a way that they apply for the distribution of these quotas, that they respect the existence of both and each other, that each of them has a part in this process of processing. That if one sawmill gets as such in that one community, a particular tree, that it is already known to him who is someone who will continue production and if we had such Croatian consortiums, which would apply and include both sawmills and later finalists, then there would certainly be no problem with quotas that are always insufficient. And I think it's a model that needs to be considered in future time anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65051	Thank you, fellow Panenic. We're moving on to further discussion. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65053	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Today's agenda is the Proposal for a Law on the implementation of the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. Since much has already been said here about this law, or much more has been said about everything else and the problems of forestry and wood industry, and not about the law itself, I would still have come back to the law itself and read what the objectives of this bill are, with a view to proposing that, for the purposes of cartoons, point 2 be placed under number 1, it means to ensure that economic operators apply the system of due diligence in order to minimise the placing on the market of illegally cut wood or products originating from illegally cut wood. And then we would place under number 2 to ensure that the imports of wood and produced from wood raw materials which have been legally cut or wood raw material imported into a partner country are ensured in accordance with the national legislation of the country where the tree has been cut. Point 3 would remain to ensure that traders in the entire supply chain apply a system of traceability of wood and wood products. The proposal for this law lays down the competent authorities, the handling of the competent authorities, the professional and inspection supervision and the infringement provisions for the implementation of those EU Regulations which are not fully governed by the current EU Implementation Act concerning trade in illegally cut wood and products from such wood. In relation to the applicable law implementing the EU regulation on trade in illegally cut wood and products of such wood, the tasks of the competent authorities are duly prescribed, the way in which the expert inspection supervision is carried out and the infringement provisions for the handling of those EU regulations are fully prescribed. The implementation of this law is to the central authorities of the State Administration or the competent ministry, that is, in this case, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Customs Administration. I think traffic itself, wood traffic in the Republic of Croatia is being controlled at the moment, but I think neither the capacity nor the forest inspection nor the customs administration is sufficient to adequately stop the trade of illegally cut trees. Some MPs here have talked about it and I think this is one of the few times that I agree with MP Maras, the problem of illegally cut wood occurs primarily in private forests while there is no such problem from the state forest, but there is this problem that has been talked about, and these are quotas given to wood processors, there is the price of wood material. Much is said about the topics that should be addressed above all by the Law on Forests and other laws, but it should be said that at this point the price of wood raw materials in Croatia is extremely low and from there comes the generation of many problems because everyone wants to deal with the processing of wood with as little as possible production of the final product because it is enough to oversaw the hull only in the plank and sell it outside, already there is a significant benefit. A lot of things are said that don't stand, e.g. It is said that roads are destroyed, that nothing is returned to local self-government, there is a forest contribution that is paid to local self-government units according to the cut-off wood mass, and that money should be used purposely to repair roads in that local self-government unit. Whether she uses it or not, it's already a matter of reviewing and inspection that comes into those local self-government units. It should also point out that the tree is a limited resource, it is precisely prescribed by the economic foundations and management programmes to the extent that it can be cut into the Republic of Croatia. The same rules apply to both the state forests and the private forests, as far as they are successfully applied, is the second issue, and I agree with Mr Lovrinović. We should all get to know one thing together, which is that the forests are the national wealth of the Republic of Croatia as gas, oil or other natural resources. One of the few resources we have and should be much more appreciated, and the right way to appreciate it is to have the right price to sell it. At this point I think that price is not appropriate, we are priced far below even countries in the environment we like to compare with, and then it is no wonder that today in Croatia we have a sawmill, perhaps according to some of my knowledge that have capacities and five, six times larger than the annual level that cuts wood masses in Croatia all together in private forests and in state forests. Of course, there are different needs and everyone thinks that its criterion and its right to wood mass is exclusively and that everyone else who gets that wood mass simply shouldn't get it. If the price were correct, if we were to make sure, first of all, that the wood mass is obtained by those who work as much as a final product because it multiplys and the number of employees in the wood industry, then I don't think it would be such a big problem to deploy that wood mass. But I'm saying, this is what comes out of the framework of this law, and this is the subject of something that should be discussed immediately at the next session, which is the new forest law, and I think that's when you can talk with a lot more arguments about all of this. There's no real recipe because here we've been listening to from the representatives of someone who's no longer here in the Assembly Hall, one criterion would be to give it to Vukovar, the others would like the wood mass to stay where it is cut down to go to the nearest sawmills, it all has its own for and against. Here I'll tell you from an example of where I come from, and that's Koprivnica, you don't have any sawmills or lies in Koprivnica today, there's a single separate drive from the Varazdin County area for a year. And in the vicinity of Koprivnica, there are about 100 thousand cc's of wood. The large system of Biokalnik that used to operate in Koprivnica has failed, it has closed the door completely, it has recently been the sawmill space purchased by one entrepreneur, but this entrepreneur, as far as I know, has no contract with the Croatian forests, so there is simply no job in Koprivnica in the wood industry, which, in my opinion, is sad and should in any case take care of such things, means that... part of the wood mass is going towards the local environments where this wood mass is cut. But clearly we cannot ignore even large systems, especially I say I repeat those that finalise their production and they must always be sufficiently supplied to meet their capacities. But I'm saying, it's the subject of one other law, one other debate, so I wouldn't discuss it any further here. It is mentioned here, just to correct some false allegations which have been said to include the Forest Advisory Service in the production of the copy of the accompanying documents. Well, the law stipulates that licensed performers do so, the only way to get the license is if that artist meets the professional and material criteria, under the profession I think there are forest engineers. And the main licensed performer in Croatia is still Croatia's forest, so there is no problem for any forest owner to come to the Croatian forest and ask professional people from the Croatian forests to come out, execute the signal, then issue additional documents. So the Agricultural Advisory Service is in that part as some kind of controller of all that and whoever organizes everything, but Croatian forests have over 600 employees of engineers who, along with their regular work, can do these jobs and there is no point in creating another parallel system that costs a lot and would not bring the expected results. I'm saying, there's a lot more to be said here, but I wouldn't be talking about it right now, in the end I just want to say that the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65054	I thank my esteemed colleague, Felix, for this debate. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Ivan Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65055	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry. In 2013, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law implementing the EU regulation on trade in illegally cut wood and production from that tree or the establishment of a system of verification and control of imports of wood and wood products into the EU internal market. Our problem is forest management and wood industry. Croatia exports wood but unfortunately exports a minimum amount of wood products. This law doesn't regulate it. The problem is the export of wood. The Republic of Croatia is poor with wood mass. My question is, why is the wood industry part of the agriculture ministry? Should the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy not cooperate or change the strategy on the export of wood and encourage the development of wood industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65056	I'd like to thank my colleague Kirina for her replica. My colleague Felak's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65057	Dear colleague Kirin, so this question to start from this last one, this question whether the wood industry be at the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Economy is always open as I would say and the wood industry has walked from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Agriculture. He's currently at the Department of Agriculture, if that's the happiest solution, I'll tell you my personal opinion, I don't think so. I think you should be where all the industries are and that's the Ministry of Economy. As far as this is concerned, you said we were poor in the woods. Well, in some ways, I would also agree with you, no matter what we're constantly talking about, we have almost 50% of the surface that is under the forest and forest land, it's very important to stress because about 2 million acres of forest we're talking about, over a million acres of forest are on the cross where there's de facto no forest in what we imagine forest but are various degraded forest shapes of which there is no economic benefit. According to my former knowledge, about 300 thousand hectares of forest are forests where there is no economic justification for their exploitation and their management, these are more protected forests, meaning on such exposures and terrains where there is not enough quality mass and where simply the cutting is not economically justified and then we come up with that all some 600 to 700 thousand hectares of forest are real economic forests and therefore we produce at the level of Croatia some 5 to 6 million cubic meters of wood mass annually, I'm talking about state forests depending on the year and we really can't say that we are very rich in wood mass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65058	I thank my colleague Felak for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Christmas Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Felak, at first you said that you wanted to go back to this law and the measure of things, you couldn't look back on problems in the Croatian forests, because there are real problems, and that's what we all who took part in either the debate or the replicas have observed. The Law on the Forests, yes, we need it but we also need the implementing rules because we now have that Croatian forests control the delivery or allocation of quotas, there are multiannual contracts, annual, exact rules under which to play. However, it is enough to look at the balance sheets and accounts and the loss of our sawmills or our finalists, and it will be more and more clear to us than to meet those tables that require a really long time, in which a lot of effort is being made and which ultimately do not know what they are doing because they change the data every three months about how much the final product has been spent, in which way it has been produced to have some even small entrepreneurs who have sent letters to the Croatian forests and asked that they cannot do it themselves, but that they are ready to cover all the costs, that someone from the Croatian forests actually comes to them and enter the data from its production into those tables. So there are controls, however, we need to simplify it or change the way of control, which is why I know that you are an expert and that there are these problems, and you are aware that even after cutting down what the priorities of loading are, who after that and all these are problems that will certainly not be solved by law but by goodwill and implementing rules, I think this should be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65060	I thank my colleague at least for this replica. My colleague Felak's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65061	Dear colleague Macar, I agree with you. I think that, as unfortunately in many other segments of Croatian society, we have over-elected both people in forestry and in the wood industry today are much more concerned with any kind of paper, reports, filling out any forms instead of having foresters present in the forest and trees in their plants or in their project bureaus where they would make as high-quality products as possible. I agree with you that through the balance sheets and a lot of things should be done, that these endless forms should not be filled out. However, it was likely to protect itself simply in a way that would result in a more just distribution of these wooden raw materials. But we all know together that unfortunately all of this is expensive and played and that it really should, indeed, be directed, to have that control targeted that wood raw material comes really to those like I said that they finally process to the highest degree of finalization, and that all those so-called are avoided here. shoppers who, if they don't already sell the logs themselves, and I want to say that, after all, selling the logs in Croatia is not such as to export the clean logs as they say it here all the time. But it only comes to the primary processing of the hulls, meaning nothing further, and we would all like to avoid it together because that would result in a lot of extra benefits and I say once again I agree with you that this bureaucratic section should be reduced far more than it is present now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65062	I thank my colleague Felak for his reply. The next replica is a esteemed colleague of Steve Culey's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65063	Dear Vice President, you will agree with me that after the Milky Way, the French, the Germans, the leper, the ashes, orcans and leeches for Croatian forestry, only politicians and those who represented those institutions were more harmful and harmful. Why am I talking? You said there were too many sawmills and wood-processing companies. Of course, there were too many when each political set allowed itself and its friends quotas that were appropriate to them, which exported logs from all over Croatia, and most of all from Slavonia, which as a semi-product sent our natural wealth, thus devastationing our Slavonia and other parts of Croatia when we only know that there are only three sawmills in Strošinci, Gunja and Vrbanja. They live in the middle of the Spachvanian pool with the richest forest. They have been bitten all year by mosquitoes, and their children take buses all over Europe where they do the same work that can't work in their Slavonia where the highest quality oak is. And also, only one percent of the logs are processed in their sawmills. All the rest of the percentage ends who knows where, that we're not talking about a Zagreb woodworking ring. Why the Zagreb ring? Well precisely because they were closest to hiding what was their intention to devastate our lands so our villages are empty, our forests are empty, and not only the export of logs are basic and primary for forestry. Let us remember only one Jakovina and Pavelic who managed to wipe the forestry out of their vault and remember Pavelic and his sister companies that he was trying to impose. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65064	Thank you, colleague Culey. My colleague Felak's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65065	Dear colleague Culey, I agree with you. I'm in my own, so I said the speech needs to find some sort of environment between meeting local small producers, little sawmills. I don't know. Someone was talking at the Gorski Kotar. Here you are now mentioning Slavonia, but there are such small sawmills all over Croatia wherever a little forest richer end. It cannot be avoided by large producers and clearly that one of the key criteria that would have to be applied there is the price and then the positional rent. Because it is not normal to drive to someone today, meaning oak from Slavonia, for example, from the island and in the vicinity of Zagreb or even beyond, because sometimes the price when the price was real and the market price did not allow it. Today the price is below all criteria and it is worth driving to caricate from Vukovar and Split and possibly drink there, because the price of wood raw materials is low, and the primary processing itself leads to a good profit. Therefore, I advocate that the small sawmills settle as long as possible and retain this domicile population because these are usually the sawmills and the only production entities in certain municipalities and villages. But also to make sure that those producers who finalise their product, who produce furniture and other forms of the final product, and that wood raw materials are less or less or less awarded to those who are so-called. shoppers or those who just chicken and do not produce anything out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65066	I thank my colleague Felak for his reply. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65068	Thank you, Vice President. Let me have a glass of water for myself. Let us return to the subject, therefore, the HNS Club will support this bill, first and foremost because the tasks of the competent authorities are duly prescribed, the way in which professional inspection supervision is carried out, the infringement provisions, with appropriate fines, which are the exchanges of values, individual shipments of wood and wood products, and tax losses and the damage to the economy that can result from the violation of this bill. The aim of this law is to ensure that imports into the internal market of wood and wood production are produced in accordance with national legislation of partner countries. So, once again, I remind you that this is a alignment with the proposal, this bill is actually about the implementation of the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products. And, of course, it is ensured that in the internal market, economic operators and traders, applying a system of due diligence, i.e. a system of traceability, are placed on the market and are trading in wood and wood products produced in accordance with national legislation, a country not EU Member States and EU Member States. What is really the point, when we speak first of all in this law, is that currently, according to the European Commission's estimates, an annual billion euros are lost, i.e. on the market in black wood products and wood products. And that must be something to protect. Why? I think it's clear to all of us that unfairly more concretely destroys prices on the market, that those concessionaires, who lead, therefore, I'm talking about the economic aspect of this law, which will contribute and will have a better position, in further wood production. And of course the part that's not even a little bit irrelevant, when we talk about protecting the ecosystem, when we talk first of all about illegal wood cutting. What this law actually allows, is that together forest inspection, with customs, which so far had a strictly divided... So when a tree loads on a truck, it's a customs matter, everything... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a matter of forest inspection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now customs will be able to establish exactly what is on those trucks together with the representatives of the forest inspection, figuratively speaking. What kind of tree, where, etc. Because, unfortunately, they haven't been overdressed or competent so far. What's for sure, the meaning spreads, of course we have to protect our national wealth, when we're talking about both forests, about water and our country and of course, that from Slavonia, where I come from, we have exactly that. But unfortunately, we can't move, I'm stepping forward. What in one part will certainly help, but what we have to think and what I said earlier, and colleagues have repeatedly gone on about it, is that we are not exporting finished products, and too many raw materials. How now, which is the object of wood and wood, I generally refer to as other raw materials, which are attractive in European and wider markets. And it's some kind of system that this law, maybe it won't directly affect, one small part of it will. But yesterday night, unfortunately, those who work here and be here all day and by night, until half 11, so they're following us, and there was all maybe, 6, 7, 8 first of all, that couple of colleagues on the left, just maybe two representatives of the opposition, we had the Law on Professional Education, where it was just mentioned. Imagine that in the last 20 years, the number of students who attend vocational schools has been halved in half for 20 years. From 20,000 to 10. And the most wanted professions, which no one even enrolls at all, are the carpenter, the carpenter. And how can we expect that our wood industry... we no longer have the personnel to do that wood industry of finished products if we speak when we don't have any more who's going to do it. That's why yesterday's law that was in the first reading is as important as this one. So it's a light of all measures, we had yesterday and the Minimum Salary Act, and it's not going to bring anything in itself, but that's all the things we have to look out for, which we have to influence to get a wider picture of. I think first of all, this law, when we get back to the core, will bring more order, provide a better placement for those who are legally working. Of course, when I mentioned a billion euros on the European market, it's not a small thing, part of it is probably in Croatia, we don't know how much. But surely this will help those who work and earn I can say not legally, but honestly their bread and surely we should continue to work in a way that better improves and stimulates exports of finished products and production, not just processing and placement and exporting raw materials. Of course our oak is Slavonic's most wanted and of course our... forests are extremely wanted and that's fine, but let's get the most fruit and added value and hire people out of it. That's what must ultimately be in the sense of all the laws and our actions here in the Parliament. Once again, the HNS Club will support this bill and we hope for further suggestions that will go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65069	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Kresho Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Curai, you said there were no personnel in vocational schools, no one was writing down the profession of carpenter, carpenter, etc. So where's he gonna work? My colleague Culey now left, said no more sawmills in Slavonia, no more furniture industry, everything's ruined, everything's ruined. Croatian forests are a highly centralised enterprise and this should not be the case at all. I really don't see a reason not to go in the direction that Croatian forests as one state mastodont cease to exist as such. You said yourself where there are trees like a renewable raw material in Croatia, there are in Slavonia, there are in Lica, there are in Gorski kotar, so let the local administrations manage it and make them live on it. It's very simply no regulation there should be special, you don't need to be a doctor of science to know that as much as you cut so much you have to plant and you always have that source of income for local communities. And in this case, it is a source of income from Croatian Forests, companies that employ their trucks more than the employees of cooperatives, cooperatives overload their trucks and speedboats, destroy the roads even though it is their obligation that roads or roads that use return to their initial condition before exploiting the tree do not make it and everything remains, not that local communities benefit from the forest but have a clean cost, if nothing else repairs roads that destroy Croatian Forest Co-operatives. This is a bad law, the HSS will not support it, please consider that Croatia especially regions that are in problems like your Slavonia can only live very well from selling their tree. This is how their tree sells who knows who, there's nothing, there's no Slavonia, there's no mountain citadel or character, but there's strangers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65071	I'd like to thank my colleague, Whitey. My colleague Curaj's answer. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65072	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Whitey. Of course we all have good intentions and that we all want what's best for our country. Of course, some of our paths differ slightly that we do not talk about certain ways of speaking. First of all, I don't think you've been able to believe a little bit, I think it's more insolently offended by our hardworking people because we have the Forest College, and it's not just so much to take care of Croatian forests and everything, it's not just a visit and I plant it and I know it wasn't your intention, but just because of the dignity of the profession itself, I have to say it. As far as vocational education is concerned, one sector, which is primarily the building one who is crying for carpenters, so we know what was before and what is today and the carpenter and carpenter in the building and how important it is and how important it is for the development of the construction industry. And absolutely that everything you say and want me to sign right away, but this law specifically speaks of preventing those who steal our land, who steal and who are thieves. And, of course, we can't just say to normal and smart that we're up to it or against something that will regulate it. It's specifically this law. Of course, there may be more problems here, that it is a wider spectrum, okay, but this concrete law when we talk about harmonisation and EU regulations, we are talking here that this black wood market and wood products are regulated, that the best we can do is to make customs that performs one part of the supervision of the forest inspection done by the other, to work together, and to enable all those who make their bread in a fair way to do it for bigger money and to employ more people. It's the essence of this law. These other problems should certainly be put on a roundtable so see how we want to best help our country and how we can do so. I'm always up for it especially from where I come from, I'm sure it's not honey and milk, and I'm sure there's all the predisposition to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65073	I thank my colleague Curaj for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65074	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well colleague Curaj here and you are aware that Croatian forests disappear especially those of the quality, Slavonic, Slavonian true oak is becoming less and less. Since I live on the edge of the Lonj field, I can see it with my own eyes that the forests that were in my childhood were real forests, the real oak is gone. The Lonjsko field is growing amorphoses precisely because of the poor management of Croatian forests and excessive cuttings that we are all aware of. You're talking about the black market, I don't think it's as much a black market problem as the problem in the lobbys is of wood auctions, some can get, some can't get from the sawmills, so the big ones are developing, the little ones are failing. Since we know that middle and small entrepreneurship is what drives countries, and this is how we destroy it because they don't get enough wood quota to survive. Another problem is that our citizens who want to make their own heating tree, that tree is charged to them in the forest on a tree, means standing tree at such high prices that it is not worth making wood instead of allowing and reducing that poverty and helping people, giving them a decent price, we prefer our logs to be delivered to foreigners, neighbouring countries that grind it into biomass, and thus refuse from the Co 2 quota to ourselves, and not to us where this tree has grown. The most common trucks on the roads are so-called. The uniforms that carry the logs, the logs drive left, the right ones usually end up outside. Our exports are torn wood as a final product which I think is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65075	I thank my colleague, Leonard. Next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65076	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Curaj, we also come down from Slavonia, so we know the situation of our forests. We see that everything is centralized in Zagreb, the Ministry of Forestry which I believe would be one part of the ministry to move to Slavonia, specifically to Vinkovce because we know that we have the highest quality oak in our district, down in Vukovar-Srijem. Here's an example of one, if some battery of Strošinci was to go down to Gunje on the tractor they must turn to Zagreb and then Zagreb must approve, it is a process of about 6, 7 days for the tractor to start and put on a new battery. We know that our forests are good quality, of course they cut themselves, how much I'm informed that there's an increase, that it's being cut down at least in that part of ours and that the woods are supposed to be cut whether they're needed or not, but the biggest problem is that these same woods and these same oaks are exported in boards or logs. As far as I've heard the information somewhere this summer, Spačva can't get, our production, enough oak as we should, and if we get enough of what we should do, then we could still hire 100, 200 people like that Italian one time wanted to do in Vukovar, that's what the director told me to do to the Spachva himself if all the conditions were obtained by him. So we have to turn to our companies, as much as we export, as much as we produce and process and make almost products and sell because it's embarrassing that we just cut and export for so many years, it simply raises the question of brains, where we are. Today machines are not inaccessible, they can be introduced, they can be made that Italians don't sell us the same thing we can do, that they're not bigger traders than we are. What we do, we have to ask ourselves a question, we have a quality and we sell that quality to them that they sell later Germany and around because I had it from some sources, to say the Germans don't buy the Croatian oak and my friend who was at the same warehouse says that here you see the island, it's Croatian, only the Italians passed it on to the Germans. So until we simply have to be blind to the eyes that we simply do some things that no one does in the world, which we value and we have a special oak that rarely in the world have and we never, ever, ever did the right thing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65077	Comrade Muscle, all minutes are scheduled for replication. I'm asking you to keep an eye on the weather, not to warn you or interrupt your thoughts. My colleague Curai's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65078	Thank you, Vice President. Then I'll be something shorter to make up for that lost time. Yes, my colleague Misic agrees, but you know what else is going on? Not that we're exporting raw materials and we're getting a product there, but we're eventually importing the finished ones from Italy and from the outside with our tree that goes there, the added value we pay here. That I think is absolutely something that needs to be changed. And I've just remembered, I'm going to rely on previous replicas, the company one that's just doing furniture production in Osijek can't find quality labour, for that business in Osijek only here in Zagreb when we're talking about prices is 50% or above 50%, respectively. And that's where we're closest to the raw materials. So he's not here in Zagreb. It is amazing that within one country we have such differences in both salaries and finals prices or finished products etc. And I think that we should look at it in even development, of course, especially from that area that's rich in raw materials and obviously has the least of it. And that's where I agree, I think we're all complicated, and this is one of the tasks to protect exactly what we have very little already. We went wide, the topic was protection and regulation and about the production and traceability of wood, so to know exactly who cut it, where it was cut, who the concessionaire, where he came from, etc., to the finished product, from where that log was cut. That's the point of this, and of course we need to regulate it, but it's not going to solve this whole problem. I understand that we have it, but what I'm saying is, let's go piece by piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65079	I thank my colleagues Curai for this answer. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, my debate will be very brief. There's no point in having a bad debate here, especially...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65081	Excuse me, just a minute. Dear colleagues, I would ask you nicely not to disturb my colleague Lovrinović while he discusses, if you have something between you, then settle outside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, my debate will be brief, I'd hate to have a bad debate, and especially when I hear people participating in the current government. I am once again surprised that only here was adopted, we are today discussing only two implementations of the directive, is the bottom of the ban on illegal cutting, other traceability and as if there were no other problems in forestry and the question of wood management of forests. Therefore, on behalf of the party, we change Croatia, as well as all citizens, we ask the administration of the Croatian Forests and Minister Tolusic, who seems energetic to me only always stop him from publicly publishing the results of the bid of wood mass per customer, by quantity, type and price. Here's Mr. Secretary of State. I'm actually discussing a law that's on the agenda today. So, if the directive is there to end these illegalities, let's cut down let's be transparent until the end publish everything. Here I was trying to come to the Croatian Forests site today constantly to read below called public competition. I can't open it at all. Maybe it's really something today, but please increase transparency so we all know what it's all about. Second my proposal in front of the party Let's change Croatia to cancel fees for so-called common useful functions of the forest. So please, here's a parafiscal imposition that makes it impossible for employers to raise minimum wage, so let's see what the meaning of this compensation for the general useful functions of the forest is. So employers pay, and Croatian forests sell. We have heard today and from various speakers a wooden mass below the price of even our neighboring countries. So does that make sense, please? Well, it's a waste of the meanings of Croatian forests and Croatian economies. Let's stop it because it doesn't make any sense anymore. And not only that, trucks used as Croatian forests they destroy roads. So who's paying for it? So here's a chance to lift the parafiscal burdens. Next we propose a party to change Croatia's ban on troops is in force. A ban on the export of wasted buildings should also be considered. But here I want to be very clear. Let's use the wood industry, this god-given day means raw materials to conduct demographic politics in rural areas where our demographics are dropping. It's Lika, it's Gorski Kotar, it's parts of Slavonia and Baranja. There they can stay sawmills and give them a more favourable wooden mass to be a national interest and a national project. And what do we need from the other side? Disable in Zagreb sawmills or in these large centers. Let's encourage, encourage, now you have the opportunity to economic policy that the wood industry is doing high-grade products, furniture to export it. Well, then it makes more sense. So I suggest an increase in the price of wood mass, and to prevent this speculation. Because we know how many foreign customers compete, come here, right now use low prices and the entire will always be paid by Croatian citizens and employers who do so. So is it possible that this government can only drink wood let's paint it up, build it up? Let's raise technology policy, a new industrial policy. In the former Yugoslavia, the country of black socialism was one of the best furniture producers in Europe and the world. It's not that, it should already be said now after so many years we've fallen far below it. So, wood mass is an excellent basis for the implementation of state policy, demographic policy, regional development policy. Well, gentlemen who are in power, please don't just let them drink or export the logs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65083	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65084	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State here since I come from the HRAST party, I just need to get back to this topic a little bit. And I see my colleagues saying about this topic when it comes to wood, everyone has repeatedly mentioned the oak tree. Here's maybe this replica of mine was supposed to be at the beginning as pure as one introduction small. When we talk about oak we have several types of oaks, we have... , oak nut, quercus petraea means oak china, quercus pubescens means oak honey. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I will eventually leave the one who in my homeland is the most important quercus ilex oak of blacks, garlic and garlic. These are the four dominant species of oaks in Croatia and the problem of all forests is, in fact, resting on the issue of protection of exactly oak forests that are most valuable, most caloric and always rested on them the economy of the local community. I'll say two little things here yet. When it comes to shaming especially in Primorje Croatia, in recent decades, and I will even dare say the centuries since Robert Visionia is forested mainly with a pinus halephensis, or allephic pine, which has its own justification for pedogenesis and other things. But it is not used, or it is not taken into account that the real, indigenous, most caloric, most valuable, economical most important tree is this quercus lex oak of blacks, and perhaps in that sense something to take care of in the future. And I'm going to take this opportunity to warn you of an environmental problem that's latent in the space of Spačva, and it's about the oak nut, the quercus slaver. The water base level, or groundwater, has fallen recently in recent decades, I will dare say for decades. And it is this fall of water that threatens the very existence of this one of Croatia's most valuable forests. Here it is, about the subject not directly but worth mentioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65085	Answer, Mr. Lovrinović. Okay. Next replica, Mr. Liposchack. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65086	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Lovrinović, I cannot ignore this finding at all about the useful functions of the forest and the fees as a purely parafiscal charge. Namely, the very functions of the forest have existed since when there is a forest and since when there is a man. The man has always breathed oxygen that the forests produced, used water that was filtered through forest eco systems, used all the other values that forests produce, and gave protection from erosion, CO2 binding, and beyond. And just as with the organs of the human body, while the functions of the forest are fine, nobody talks about them, especially in a positive way, but we often have these discussions, like some kind of imposition. Let's just remember the fires in Dalmatia over the past few years and what happened after the forest went missing. Let's think of Bujc, think of all the erosions. We can think of common useful functions, or, compensation, in the direction of perhaps better and more similar controls, but not at all about abolishing. Let's see what other countries have. They may not have one such unique fee, but they have a number of other fees and taxes, from taxes for binding so-called. carbon taxes and so on. And what I would like to stress is that what we very often forget, so the debate goes one wrong way, is not the only product, Croatian forests and forests in general, just the cube of wood. The product is much more and the well-being is much more, which the forest gives. And by removing the compensation for the generally useful functions of the forest, which, let's say that not even 300 kn, per million kuna gets, I think we're going to do a lot more damage than we could get from that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65087	Thank you, too. Mr. Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65088	The economic profession of a respected colleague, a little different, looks at the problem. Because if you have such a large company as the Croatian forest, if you have such a huge amount of raw materials as wood, so if that company cannot earn alone on the market from such wood mass, so explain, you and the Croatian citizens, so why is it necessary, that we all practically finance it, if it is not able, therefore, to have this huge resource, to finance ourselves. It's nice to hear what you're describing. However, in this way, as the Croatian forests operate, this truly mastodont, as someone said earlier, you can't, you can't introduce, you can't introduce, two more accusations, you can't fix the situation, because the management system, it needs to be decentralized by that system, it's really a massive system. And not just that. You can't accumulate as much as it's falling into the sand because of such poor governance and not say what else intrigued shops might be. So this is an area where a whole new policy should be introduced. I really didn't say it by accident. I further advocate that this parafiscal intrusion be lifted. Because if there is a company in Croatia that can make a very large profit, it is Croatian forests. How? Here you go, you're in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65089	Thank you. Mr. Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65090	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lovrinović, I respect your economic education and your title, but it is evident from your debate that in this part of forestry and function, others, useful functions of the forest and what is the purpose of how you call it parafiscal intrusion, you do not understand too much and that you have not studied it. I dare say so, because if you had studied, then you would know, that it is strictly intended, that these are strictly intended funds that have been collected in such a way and not collected by more Croatian forests, but collected by the Ministry of Agriculture and that they are, that these funds are not only intended for Croatian forests, but also for private forest owners and they are being used, the systematic ratio of ownership, which we have now heard, not earlier discussions, about 75, 25% and that for strictly, strictly, strictly for the purpose, means for certain projects. ... they are funded, forest management is financed, paid to the fire community, so they are held fire-breathing, used in recent, unfortunately, many years to demining, hundreds of millions of kuna collected through funds... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's gone for the purpose of demining. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's used for scientific activity. So it is one strictly dedicated income that is not used as thought to pay salaries to workers of the Croatian Forests. One more thing, since it's a short time to tell you. 70%... in the Republic of Croatia, it is collected from a large system that is owned by foreign governments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So... They pay banks, INA, Deute telecoms and similar systems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we look at a column of 00, 20, 2, 6, 5 as far as it is, it's for small entrepreneurs almost nothing, and this is the biggest payers... are foreign-owned companies and this tax is strictly used for purpose purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65091	Thank you very much, Mr. Lovrinović, you have the right to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65092	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Felak, unfortunately, I don't have enough time in two minutes, I can't go with you, I'm going to say it again, but if the previous governments have sold it, telecoms, banks and the rest of it, for small money, and now they're collecting this change by paying for the general benefits of the forest, and if it's an economic achievement for you, then I really need to stop talking right now, because I just don't have anything to comment on. But let me be specific. If you said the general usefulness of the forest functions, so we saw last summer and last summer unfortunately, how much the forest was averaged, down Dalmatia, the debris, so it burns all at 16, you understand. We see what it's like to get new firemen's vehicles, there's nothing of it, dear fellow. Therefore, this country is looking for new people, determined people and those who will work in the interest of the Croatian people, not foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65093	Thank you very much. And now finally, Secretary of State, Mr. Zeljko the Queen will give the final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65094	Ladies and gentlemen, here, let me thank all of you who participated in the debate, as you have shown, a certain knowledge and knowledge of the issues of forestry and forestry-related sectors, but also about the proposed draft of this law. This proposed draft law, that we want to bring it into line with EU gains through national legislation, but it is not only one of the laws, harmonising with EU legislation, but this law is a very clear measure how and how the Ministry of Agriculture will implement a policy of development of forestry, woodworking industry, safeguarding our most important resources, which is an etat, safeguarding our forests and preserving jobs in rural areas. What is important to mention and I think it is also very important that in April 2017 the Croatian Government adopted a strategy for the development of wood processing and furniture production and the action plan where it was very clearly determined according to the model of the distribution of wood mass and price and policy of rebate, supervision and control, the model of the distribution of wood itself, which is in line with the Understanding Agreement with the woodworking industry, which will define a fair model, a sustainable model of the development of wood processing industry. We have to take care of every job in our wood industry especially those senior-class finalists who employ a larger number of workers. But we also have to take care of the smallest sawmill in one rural area, maybe within a 30km radius, and there's no other job than that little sawmill. And that is why we firmly believe that through the implementation of this law, as well as the set of laws that we have prepared and which will appear in the Assembly by next year, the Law on Forestry, where we will very clearly define all of this which you have discussed today and you will see in how and in what quality the Croatian Government and the Ministry of Agriculture have prepared solutions for the forestry and wood industry sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65095	... You have one replica, Mr. Bunjac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65096	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the sad state in the woods today can be monitored with the help of modern technology, it is enough to open those google maps and air recordings and see how many once rich areas become wasteland. I am particularly interested in two examples, one of the protected nature parks of Medvednica where there are already 4 or 5 areas that are completely deserted and what is most interesting is even a simple eye from the city where the forest is dedicated, where the devastation continues and what is very interesting is the destruction of fauna animals, so even wild animals began to appear in the city of Zagreb. And I also want to know how it is possible that on Žumberk which is also Nature Park the Croatian side is fully visited and the Slovenian side is fully preserved. It means what you do specifically to protect protected areas of forest in Medvednica and Žumberk. That's if you can tell for the end, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65097	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65098	It is the responsibility of the city of Zagreb and the park of nature itself. But what may have been the answer to your first question, here I might want to ask you and invite you to come to the Ministry of Agriculture or the Croatian Forest where we can very clearly and quality present our digital data when it comes to maps of forests and forest land, where in one real time we are monitoring the situation from this very important resource of ours. And what is in the legal proposal of the Forests Act means in the draft of this proposal we want to introduce a digital base that will be at the Ministry of Agriculture in order to make an inventory of all that the Ministry of Agriculture manages, which is forests, forest land, agricultural land, and thus behave as the responsible manager of these resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65099	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65100	Proposal for a Law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 239. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a Law implementing the EU regulation on the transport of wood and wood products is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 120 votes, 4 abstentions have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65101	Now we move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on aquaculture, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 177; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate referred to in Article 197. The Rules of Procedure and the debate were conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the proposaler's representative like to give an additional explanation? Ms. Marija Vukkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65102	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. In front of you is the final proposal of the Law on aquaculture, which was first read in the Croatian Parliament in September 2017. In Croatian legislation so far, there was no single regulation governing aquaculture areas, but separate areas were dealt with by the Marine Fisheries Act for aquaculture in the sea, or by the freshwater fishing law for that part of aquaculture relating to aquaculture in the mainland. Therefore, the objective of the adoption of this Aquaculture Act is to establish a specific legal framework for the implementation of this activity, to exempt from the rules governing the Law on Marine Fisheries and the Law on freshwater fisheries, to unite national provisions in the part relating to aquaculture and to the basis for the effective implementation of the Common Fisheries Policy, reformed in 2013. The law therefore regulates the implementation of the common fisheries policy reformed in 2013, sets out the national development objectives in aquaculture activities, lays down the competent authorities for the implementation of market arrangements and for structural and state support, the way and bodies implementing supervision and control, the implementation of support and any other relevant issues for the activity of aquaculture. The law gives aquaculture strategic importance in Croatia as it is a growing economic branch that has been growing even on average up to 10% in recent years with high prospects for export growth. As the national development objectives of aquaculture, it is determined to improve the competitiveness of aquaculture with the maintenance of economic and social sustainability and to increase overall production by respecting the principles of social, environmental and economic sustainability. This law also lays down an adequate basis for the adoption of a new operational programme in fisheries, for more effective implementation of the existing and for the adoption of national and multiannual plans in aquaculture, which set as specific objectives the promotion and increased competitiveness of aquaculture, better cooperation with the scientific community, adequate spatial planning and the like. In addition, this law allows the EU pilot to close 9094 on the inadequate implementation of Regulation 708 of 2007 on foreign and locally absent species in aquaculture. For the implementation of the law, it is not necessary to provide for additional appropriations in the budget, and the activity of aquaculture is prescribed in such a way as to determine the conditions for obtaining permits, conditions for abolished permits, conditions for obtaining authorisation, conditions for lifting the authorisation for the operation of aquaculture as complementary activities, conditions for establishing suitable areas and better compliance with spatial non-planning, the way in which the tender for public leases applies to aquaculture on land or the collection of offers for concessions for aquaculture at sea, the keeping of lists of closed aquaculture facilities, the register of facilities for foreign and local non-aquaculture species, the register of licences, the manner in which the authorisation for such species is withdrawn, professional training, conditions for the use of traditional and strictly protected species, the handling of the data in the case of the bi-cultary nature of the data, the collection of the data of the data in which is provided by means of the Member States in which the Member States have been used. Instead of the benefits so far, authorisation is envisaged and the possibility of a united authorisation is introduced as new instead of more permits so far under certain conditions. The novelty in this law is also that it allows for the registration of aquaculture as supplementary active OPGs. Also in the work relating to inspection and infringement provisions, the severity of sanctions with a level of punishment has been harmonised and a legal statement that has so far not been unique in the work relating to aquaculture at sea and aquaculture on land represents a significant administrative discharge. Finally, I would like to say that the law provides for institutional support that the Ministry of Agriculture will provide, those scientific institutions, professional and professional organisations dealing with the aquaculture sector, thus promoting in line with the common fisheries policy, vertical, sectoral and horizontal integration and coordination of all local, regional and national stakeholders that can contribute to the development of the aquaculture sector in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65103	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I agree with what you have said, so now, in one place, one law defines the pursuit of aquaculture as defined by the Law on Marine Fisheries and the Law on freshwater fisheries. What you have said and what I particularly want to point out is that it is necessary to define criteria that determine the benefits of, for example, the marine good that aquaculture activities could be carried out. And what is well defined by this law is the fact that the Minister of Agriculture, with the agreement of three ministers, the Minister of Maritime Affairs, the Minister of Environmental Protection and the Minister of Spatial Planning, will establish those criteria that will define possible locations. This has so far been defined by local permits or spatial plans, which often led to disruption of maritime transport in the area where concession fields are based on spatial plans and given in concessions. For example, below us in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which you are very well acquainted with, the area of Maloston Bay and the Small Sea where there is a very large number of concession fields on which mariculture is carried out, or now aquaculture has not been defined and solved in order to meet all the criteria I suppose to possess. In this way as you have now prescribed by law, I think it is possible to introduce order on the maritime good where concession fields are given and allowed to carry out aquaculture. In that sense, I particularly point out, I say, because this also applies to the county from which you and I come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65105	Thank you very much. We are now going to discuss clubs, Mr. Josip Križanić, Club of HDZ Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65106	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Aquaculture, he is good, there were not many remarks, but in the first reading. It is good that we have united marine and land aquaculture because there is no single regulation in the area of fisheries that regulates the economic activity of aquaculture but separate chapters under the Law on Maritime Fisheries and the Law on freshwater fisheries. What's aquaculture? It is the cultivation or cultivation of aquatic organisms, the use of techniques designed to increase the production of those organisms through the natural capacity of the environment where organisms remain owned by a natural or legal person during the stage of cultivation or production until harvesting. This law regulates the separation of aquaculture from the Law on freshwater fisheries and the Law on Marine Fisheries in accordance with the common fisheries policy or the creation of a single legal framework for aquaculture at sea and on land. The adoption of the Single Aquaculture Act highlighted its economic aspect because the Republic of Croatia, 6 in the world, is the 6th Aquaculture breeder. The law sets out the frameworks for the adoption of a multiannual national strategic plan, the development of aquaculture and operational programmes, for fisheries, which include aquaculture, as well as annual data collection plans, which are significant mechanisms, which the Republic of Croatia must adopt and implement within the framework of the common, fisheries policy of the EU. This law also improves the competitiveness of aquaculture and its sustainability in social, economic terms, as well as the increase of total production in aquaculture, while respecting the principle of economic, social and environmental sustainability. This bill also fully establishes frameworks for the implementation of the EU Council Regulation, No. 708/2007 that regulates the use of foreign and local species in aquaculture, i.e. the closure of EU pilots. In addition, it shall be regulated in detail to carry out aquaculture activities, in a manner that prescribes, the conditions for the provision of aquaculture, conditions and means of issuing and abolishing aquaculture authorisations, conditions and means of issuing and abolishing authorisations for the use of foreign and locally absent species in aquaculture, conditions for the use of native and strictly protected species in aquaculture, the treatment in the case of fish escape from breeding installations, conditions for the acquisition of professional training in the pursuit of aquaculture activities, regulation of the market and support in aquaculture. The inspection of the implementation of this law shall be carried out by fishing inspectors, while the Ministry of Finance conducts in the transport and trade of aquaculture products. The law also provides for infringements. This proposal introduces authorisations for aquaculture instead of current benefits for fish and other marine organisms and for aquaculture, and introduces the possibility of uniting more permits into one. The proposed law also introduces a new category of authorisation for the performance of aquaculture in the OPGs, which will be achieved horizontally in line with the specific regulations governing this area. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65107	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65108	Dear Secretary of State, dear colleague. I agree completely with you. Here, it would only highlight some problems related to aquaculture, which I have pointed out before, many are recognized in this law. And the rest of them, I hope there's more opportunities to get rid of them. It's about the problem of growing shellfish. When it comes to aquaculture, it involves both cultivation and marine and land organisms in the waters. I'm talking about mussels here, or... We call it in the Sibenik area... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the bay of Sibenik, i.e. at the mouth of the Krka River, we really have hundreds of growers of these seashells, and there is an ecological problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the problem is actually banal, and that's that the floaters are often of the Styrofoam. And then that styrofoam is prone to morphing, and then it happens that we have, like snow on the shores of the Sibenik Bay, and I think some regulation might regulate, something like this to make those floaters, for example. Of some PVC material that's not prone to morphing. One purely technical problem. In addition, we have a situation, that in some rivers, such as The Krka River, we have a breeding trout in the very original part of the Krka River. I believe that some water streams are particularly protected, and the Krka River is protected as a significant landscape, it should not be allowed to grow fish so intensely, or aquaculture of such a species, but rather that it should be led to a more protected landscape, i.e. protected nature. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65109	Thank you. And now, you want an answer? ... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A mistake, Mr. Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65110	Mr. Vice President, thank you. As far as the floater is concerned, it's probably more of a matter for the secretary of state, which will then probably be able to answer because he probably suggested Mr. Vice President's question to her in his final statement. I agree with you, that it would be better if those floaters were than some compact, solid material that wouldn't scribble if they were now prescribed by the Styrofoam. As for the planet's plants and their location at the river springs, they are certainly not without reason in that place, due to the likely purity and coldness of the water. But we have fishing inspections, which give their opinion before giving some consent to such farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65111	Thank you very much, with one more apology. I now call upon Mrs Vesna Pusic to speak on behalf of GLAS and HSU representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State. I actually came forward on behalf of GLAS and HSU because of the 3 points in this, which are regulated in this law, which I think is good to underline and possibly get some additional, additional explanations. We'll uphold the law, we think it's good, that it's regulated. 3 points that seem to me, especially important and interesting, are those that refer to foreign and non-existent species. On the use of native and strictly protected species and on inspection surveillance. In the section that speaks of foreign and non-occupied species, it is exclusively spoken of as regulation and supervision and authorisations relating to people who want to cultivate these species or species which are fine under controlled conditions, but we in the Adriatic have an increasingly frequent and intense appearance of foreign and non-preserved species that come alone, so to say, or that they come with ships or on ships such as cruises or fish or jellyfish and such forms that come with ships in the Adriatic and know to pose a rather dangerous problem. First, because some of them do not have natural enemies and multiply without control and often destroy some of the domestic species with which they are not used to and there is no way of co-existence. So you'd be begging if it's possible if you said anything about it. In this way, in order to control and manage these species that are not authorised, they are not grown or brought with the permits, but come on their own, but represent an ecological danger in the Adriatic and, in some parts, believe that they are responsible for the destruction of indigenous species that live there. Depending on the use of traditional and strictly protected species is an economic problem, but it is largely an ecological issue. And I think that these two points are closely connected, or in this law, I don't see that they're closely connected, but they should be closely connected because those sides of the species that come out uncontrollably have direct consequences for our strictly protected species. And finally related to these two topics of inspection surveillance, therefore inspection supervision is not only related to people who have breeders who have or do not have a license for their activity but also to control this phenomenon or these phenomena that arise because of transport reasons, so to speak or traffic reasons in the Adriatic which are few, and on the other hand the very sea of transport and how our inspections and inspections are trained to deal with this problem and that this problem if it does not contain it minimalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65113	Thank you. If it wasn't for the fish, I thought it was immigration policy. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65114	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pusic and I are reporting precisely why you spoke for the simple reason that the Adriatic is our greatest fortune and should be kept as a pupil of the eye. In addition to being trafficked, it is also a closed sea so that it is very, very favourable for the many disasters that can happen and that is why it is very important to take care of what you have been talking about, as well as quality inspection supervision in which there must be no one who is more equal than the others, and it can be. On this occasion, too, he would express his disdain over the relationship between the Fisheries Directorate and the fishermen of the river bay and Kvarner, who were brought practically to the brink of destruction by the Dalmatian lobby of fishermen. And I'd ask the Fisheries Authority to take care of all the fishermen on the Adriatic without hitting any lobby. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65115	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65116	I agree, I don't have much to answer, I agree with my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65117	You raised your hand, so I thought. The closing word or the reply to the replica? Good closing word. Here's your call.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65118	Thank you very much. So this final proposal brings together aquaculture activities in one law, we establish national development, economic objectives for aquaculture as... the activity and the basis for a better and more effective implementation of the common redistributive policy. What I wish to further indicate in relation to my initial exposure is the closure of the Euro Pilot 9094 and the proper implementation of the Regulation on Foreign and Local Individual Species No. 708/2007 is the following, that since the law deals fundamentally with aquaculture as an economic activity, this Regulation introduces and implements what is an obligation, but because of the economic use of foreign and locally absent species, it is stated in the law regarding those locally absent species used in Croatian aquaculture before, they are listed in Annex 1, and are implemented in one way, and those which have never been implemented, and possibly with an expert opinion and an additional risk assessment from the advisory board can serve the Croatian economic branch of aquaculture are listed in Annex 4. We agree with your remarks that there is a need to take care of these other locally absent and foreign species as well. However, the topic is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry, which in its jurisdiction has the protection of the environment and nature, and the Ministry of Agriculture as responsible for the fisheries sector will certainly try to inform it and better intersectoral cooperation. As far as the work of the Fisheries Administration is concerned, I believe it works properly in all Croatian counties. All concrete remarks we try to answer, so let's say we had some remarks from the Istrian County that were inherited problems, so we dealt with them by the rules. I don't know about any concrete remarks by fishermen from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County so I'd like to get her and then we'll try to solve them properly, and I don't know if this applies to small coastal... big economic fishing, aquaculture or something fourth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65119	Thank you very much. You also have one replica, Mr. Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65120	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. I haven't been able to get into the debate before about the other obligations. But here's what I'll use to tell you some things. I looked at the law, of course. It's good to have this area further sorted out. There is great potential for the Republic of Croatia. Of course, it's nice to take care of the protection, so our valuable resources, so the Adriatic. However, I came across one thing. So there's an observation about the multiple reporting required through this law, so there are actually three patterns where the data is sought statistically, and then socio-economic and other data. And where you didn't accept the remark to unite. Given that I have had the opportunity to be also Minister of the Ministry and to see that there are a number of ways of searching for data from individual subjects and that it is often not related, I think that one additional effort should be put in place and that it should be able to respond positively to such a remark, that is, such a suggestion and that the entire system is digitised as soon as possible, so form into one simple, look for the data that are really needed, which they should give, and leave out everything else. Because it is not good to formalize things in such a way that they are complicated for economic operators, because in the end, the purpose will not be achieved. I think that the pursuit of a clear well-organized reporting that everyone is then willing to participate in a better way is the right solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65121	Okay. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met in a fixed formula.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65122	Final proposal of the Aquaculture Act second reading, P.Z.E. No. 177. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Aquaculture Act. Please, let's vote. I find 122 votes unanimously for the Aquaculture Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65123	- Final draft law amending and supplementing the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 179. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate referred to in Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, and the debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy other than the Committee on Legislatives. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? We have Mr Tomislav Dulibic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety will improve the legislative framework and regulate the area of radiological nuclear security in accordance with all the Council of the European Union Directives, one on basic safety standards for protection against the risks arising from exposure and ionising radiation from 2013 and the other on the amendment of the Directive establishing the Community framework for nuclear safety of nuclear plants from 2014. The basic characteristics and changes introduced primarily relate to a degree of approach to the approval of the activity. The authorisation for the use of ionising radiation sources and the licensing procedure has been suspended. The obligation to develop a recommended dose limit for monitoring patient protection against ionising radiation during diagnostic procedures is introduced, non-medical radiation is introduced, a medical physics expert and an expert in ionising radiation protection and their obligation is defined. Nuclear security measures are in line with the obligations arising from the Directive, legal grounds are laid down for the effective resolution of the issue of the disposal of radioactive waste used sources, additional nuclear insurance obligations are introduced with a view to the consistent implementation of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. Based on the adoption of an action plan for... and the resolution of polluted areas in accordance with the Directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Legislative grounds shall be laid for the effective implementation of inspection controls. Compared to the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the text of the final draft law was completed in a legal and nomotechnical sense. Most of the comments of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee have been accepted in the sense that certain provisions of certain articles of the draft law should be completed in a legal and nomotechnical sense. It is accepted that some articles of the bill have too long titles, so these titles are shortened. It was also accepted that it is sufficient in one article to add all new articles that are added to each other. This resulted in a merger of two articles and a change in the numbering of the following articles. There is no objection from the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament that it is not allowed to establish that two authorised persons together, in cooperation, adopt one regulation, but that the statement in those articles has been amended in a way that the regulation is adopted by the Director of the Office, with the prior opinion of the Head of the Second Authority of State Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65125	Thank you, too. Let's go first. Do the committee applicants want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Let's start a club debate. The first is Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, SDP representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65126	Thank you, Chairman. Respected state secretaries with their associates, colleagues and colleagues the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological Nuclear Security will improve the legislative framework and regulate the area of radiological nuclear security in accordance with two EU Council directives, as the Secretary of State has said. It is one of the cornerstones of the security standards for protection against the dangers stemming from the 2013 ionising radiation exposure and the other on the amendment of the Directive establishing a Community framework for nuclear safety, nuclear installations from 2014. As we have supported this law and amendments in the first reading, I can begin by saying that the SDP club supports this law because we consider it to be good solutions that are better regulated than so far in the field of nuclear and radiological security and, in particular, stressing the introduction of the obligation to create a recommended dose restriction to monitor patients' protection from ionising radiation during diagnostic procedures, as well as the introduction of non-medical radiation, as well as the definition of medical physics experts and ionising radiation experts and all obligations resulting from their work as well as the setting of legal bases for the effective resolution of the issue of radioactive waste management from used sources and establishing the basis for the adoption of an action plan for the operation and recovery of polluting areas in accordance with the Directive. And on this occasion, I will remind you that the adoption of an action plan for work is very important, given that radon can potentially cause lung cancer. And statistically speaking after smoking, radon is the most important cause of lung cancer, estimated 3 to 14% of lung cancers due to radon exposure. I will not now state everything that is being solved by this law because these few hints show what is most fundamental, which was presented in the opening statement by the secretary. What I would like to point out at the very end is that this law lays down legal preconditions for the adoption of a whole set of regulations that will fully take over those EU directives and bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the EU and the highest standards of protection against ionising nuclear security law. The adoption of this law will also fulfil part of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in 2015 following the implementation of the mission of the Service for Integrated Review of the Legislative Framework of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which concerns the drafting of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, but then I expect all these sublaws to be adopted as soon as possible to ensure adequate radiological, nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65127	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Vlatko Kopić on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65128	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This final proposal introduces a degree of access to the approval of activities in such a way that some activities will not be subject to authorisation to carry out their activities but will only be notified by the State Department of Radiological and Nuclear Security. For some activities, the approval procedure will be simplified. This law repeals the authorisation for the use of the source of ionising radiation. Furthermore, the obligation to develop the recommended dose limit is introduced, non-medical radiation is introduced, a medical physics expert is defined and their involvement in the implementation of medical radiation and ionising radiation protection experts and the obligation of the user authorisation holder to consult them. Nuclear security measures are in line with the obligations set out in the Council Directive 2014 amending Directive No 71 of the euro on the establishment of a Community framework for nuclear safety of nuclear plants. The legal basis is further laid for the effective resolution of the issue of the disposal of radioactive waste and used resources and the separation of activities for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel from the same. Additional nuclear insurance obligations shall be introduced with a view to consistent implementation of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia and raising physical insurance to a higher level. They shall lay the basis for the adoption of an action plan for work and shall be harmonised and complemented by provisions in the field of consumer products, existing radiation and the recovery of polluted areas in accordance with the Council Directive of 2013 on basic safety standards for protection against risks arising from exposure to ionising radiation and leaving out of the strength of the '89 Directive. In '90, '96. and at the end of 2003, number 122 euros. Legislative grounds are laid for more effective implementation of inspection surveillance, the area of nuclear and radiological security in the Republic of Croatia is regulated by the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act adopted in 2013 during the alignment of Croatian legislation with the EU acquis relating to Chapter 15. Energy. The Eurotoma Treaty lays down safety standards for the protection of workers' and the general public's health. The basic standards within the community were first laid down by the 1959 directives, have been amended several times and are now necessary to comply with EU directives 2013. EUR 59 and EUR 2014 89 euros. The first one speaks about basic safety standards for protection against risks arising from exposure to ionising radiation while the second Council Directive of 2014 speaks of nuclear safety of nuclear plants. As the 2013 Directive provides for minimum rules, Member States should be free to adopt or retain stricter security measures without prejudice to freedom of movement of goods and services on the internal market. However, basic safety standards must take into account the new recommendations made by the International Commission for Radiological Protection. It is also necessary to distinguish existing planned and extraordinary exposure situations. This would cover all radiation exposure situations and all exposure categories, i.e. professional, public and medical exposure to radiation. The basic standards should include maximum permitted doses in accordance with appropriate safety, and the purpose of this Directive is to prescribe dose-limited uniformity. The current annual effective dose limits for professional and public exposure to radiation should be maintained, but there should be no additional need to calculate the average over a period of five years except in specific cases where national legislation prescribes it. Industry that processes radioactive material in nature and which is extracted from the earth’s crust exposes workers to increased doses of radiation, and if that material is released into the environment, a part of the population is also exposed and questioned by their health. Reference levels shall be established for concentrations of radon in indoor spaces and for gamma radiation in closed spaces transmitted from construction material, and the conditions for recycling of waste of industries that process natural radioactive materials in construction material shall be prescribed. Where products are placed on the market, information must be made available to all. The latest epidemiological data show a statistically significant increase in the risk of lung cancer due to prolonged exposure to indoor radon, and national action plans are necessary to address long-term risks of exposure to radon. It is recognised that the combination of smoking and high exposure to radon poses a significantly greater risk of lung cancer than any of these factors alone and that smoking increases the risk of exposure to radon to population levels. Due to significant technological and scientific progress in health care, there has been a noticeable increase in patient exposure. In this respect, it is necessary to stress the need to justify exposure to radiation for health reasons including exposure of individuals to radiation without symptoms of disease, and to facilitate the conditions for information to be given to patients, recording, reporting of doses and medical procedures, as well as the use of diagnostic reference levels and availability of devices showing the dose. The main way to ensure adequate protection of patients undergoing medical radio diagnostics and radio therapy is to ensure a high level of expertise and a clear definition of responsibilities and tasks, all experts involved in exposure to radiation for medical purposes. With regard to the management of emergency exposure situations, the current system based on intervention levels should be replaced by a comprehensive system involving an assessment of potential and exceptional situations and exposure to radiation, the overall system of emergency management, plans for responsible emergency situations and pre-planned strategies for managing each assumed event. As there are still unresolved problems with abandoned sources of radioactivity and there are numerous cases of contaminated metal, imports from third countries should be introduced under the conditions for notifying accidents with abandoned sources of radioactivity or contaminated metal. It is also important to coordinate the levels above which the source is considered a highly active sealed source of radioactivity. From all this above, the Croatian Democratic Community believes that this final bill is good and we will support it further.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65129	Thank you very much. You have one replica, two replicas. Mr. Zekanovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65130	Dear colleague Kopić, we want to adopt, or not, all the directives here are clear. Of course, but here's the opportunity for me to point out a problem here. It's a problem just like you said to the medical staff involved, meaning radiology and doctors and technicians who are daily exposed to a variety of radiation sources at their jobs, and there you would warn of two problems. One is to shift the norms of these people regardless of the measurements they are constant, measuring radiation in the premises and personal metering. The shift of norms may cause problems, and there may be little need to take account of this segment of danger. Another problem is an inadequate construction, or space where these radiation devices are located. They were mostly built a long time ago, so at a time when this amount of radiation we have today might not have been foreseen. Although I have to say that today we have devices that still have much less radiation than they used to, so maybe here's another little thing today, these devices that are sources of radiation available to everyone and to a dentist and to any doctor who's trying to run a private job, that exactly there is one control where these devices are deployed, what is the way of building buildings where they are located, or whether they meet some standards. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65131	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65132	Dear fellow Zekanovic, what you have said is absolutely true and the Ministry of Health and certain services on the ground are absolutely controlling it, and this is their primary objective in order to protect both those who are professionally and in some way continuously dealing with and therapeutic radiation. They must take care of it for themselves and for those in the system of the entire health system. And here's what I'm saying is it's a permanent matter, it's a matter of concern, but this legal basis, this law defines something else purely consistent with certain European norms that the Republic of Croatia must definitely accept. And I think what you said absolutely stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65133	Thank you very much. The second replica, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65134	Thank you very much, Reverend Kopic. Here I am reporting exclusively for the reason why I like that after 14 months of this session's term, I have managed to hear how your voice sounds. I didn't get a chance to hear any of your speeches until today. It doesn't matter that you read this exhibit, but here I want to commend you for finally speaking. On the other hand, I want to say that I'm sorry that your representatives aren't here again, so they don't even want to listen to you personally, so I'd like to encourage them along with you to report more often, to let the public know what your names are and what your views are, because it's really sad that here in the Parliament, we have 15 to 20 people at the debates, that there's nothing to discuss about the laws, that there's no replicas, that now I haven't heard from anyone, nobody would say anything about this. So here I am glad that the Croatian public has had the opportunity to hear Vlatko Kopic, I hope that the other sleepers will find a chance at least by the end of the term for those who report for the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65135	It had nothing to do with the subject, but I let you talk all the way, and I'm giving you a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, joy is mutual that we can understand each other in this way. This is not my first speech in the Croatian Parliament. I am also sorry that you have not attended and heard some of my opinions so far, I must admit that in some situations I do not enter into discussions and discussions on certain topics for which I am not competent and for which I am not professional. I think that perhaps in this honorable House it would be necessary to discuss things that people are far more competent to do, and on the basis of that, I call on all those who have something to say and who know certain topics to do so further, but I think that we should examine ourselves in certain situations whether we are competent enough for each subject to report and speak perhaps exclusively from work to say something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65137	Yeah, that didn't have anything to do with the subject either, but it had something to do with the answer. Mr. Miro Bulj, individual debate. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65138	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, state secretary with associates. Here I have answered to say a few more words about this law, but actually for the entire legislative procedure of the Ministry of Health. So as you commended the quality of this law that will certainly contribute to greater radiological nuclear security in the Republic of Croatia, as they commended that a medical physics expert is defined, for example. And to protect against ionizing radiation, I have to ask the secretary of state, and where are the other laws. So according to the plan to adopt normative acts we should adopt in this year by the end of the year, and today is actually the last working day of the session of this Assembly, the Health Protection Act, the Health Activity Act, the Law on drug abuse, the Law on Quality and Logistics in Health, none of that. Well, then it's no wonder that health care works the way it works. I would especially like to reiterate my dissatisfaction that the ministry is not able to solve the problem here and define experts in medical physics did nothing to address the problem of the medical-laboratory diagnostics who, after completing their education or can intern because it has not been resolved by the rules on internships, nor can they get a license and a job because they do not exist in the Health Activity Act and cannot be defined because the Health Protection Act has not been amended, and it has not been amended because the Health Protection Act has not been amended. At the same time, poor masters of medical laboratory diagnostics cannot even go to professional training future Employment Service ignores the existence of their diploma. So, a whole series of problems. I'd ask the Secretary of State to tell us what time we're going to get to discuss the Health Protection Act, the Health Activities Act, the Law on drug abuse, the Law on Quality and Logistics in Health Protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65139	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We now move on to: Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65140	Mr. Vice President, I asked a specific question./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65141	I looked, and I didn't see any signs of an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65142	... /Invadica Jovanovic: Another proof of how the Ministry of Health treats the Parliament./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65143	You said yours and that's the procedure. Among other things, your party has contributed to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65144	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 179. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Honored Tomislav Dulibic to be shown about these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65145	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65146	Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65147	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65148	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65149	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65150	And he becomes an integral part of the law. And Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65151	It's unacceptable. By erasing the word "intentionally" it would lose the meaning of the provision and the bound provisions. The European Commission insists on the precise adoption of the Directive so that eradicating that word could result in the European Commission’s observation of the incomplete adoption of that provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65152	Please, colleague Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65153	We're withdrawing the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65154	Thank you very much. Then we now move to a vote on the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security. Please, let's vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes 115 for, 3 abstentions have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65155	- Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the HRT Supervisory Board. The proposal shall be submitted to the Committee on Information, Information and Media pursuant to Article 22. HRT law. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Andrija Mikulić, to explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65156	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 22(1) The Croatian Parliament will probably decide at the meeting on the appointment of members of the Croatian Supervisory Board. For members of the Croatian Supervisory Board, as proposed by the Committee, the following are proposed: Mr.sc. Young Chutura, Dr. Sc. Eduard Kunschtek, Dr. Sc. Maja Martinovic and Mrs Morana Palikovic Gruden. On 14 July 2017, the Croatian Parliament adopted a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Croatian Parliament's Supervisory Board of Supervisors. At its 8th session of 13 July 2017, the Information, Information and Media Committee launched a procedure for the appointment of members of the Croatian Supervisory Board and launched a tender on 19 July 2017 for the selection of four members of the Croatian Supervisory Board in the National Journal and on the website of the Croatian Parliament and of the HRT. At the 9th session held on 4 October 2017, the Committee discussed all the applications received for the invitation to tender and established a list of candidates eligible for the selection of four members of the HRT Supervisory Board prescribed by the Law on HRT and a competition in which 31 candidates are present. All candidates from the list were invited to discuss with members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media which was held at the same meeting of the Committee. At its 11th session held on 17 November 2017, the Committee on Information, Information and Media held a debate and proposed the following candidates for appointment to the Croatian Supervisory Board. Mr.sc Mladen Cutura, Mrs. Morana Paliković Gruden, Dr.sc. Eduard Kunštek and Dr. Sc. Maja Martinović and Miroslav Grgic. A single vote was held on each candidate and is for Mr.sc. Young Cuturu was seven votes to, two abstentions. For Mrs. Morana Paliković Gruden 9 votes in favour, for Dr.sc. Eduardo Kunstek 7 votes for and 2 abstentions and for Dr.sc. Maju Martinovic 7 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. For Miroslav Grgic, 2 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 1 abstention, and in accordance with Article 22(1). The Law on HRT was decided by the Committee to submit the appointment of Mr.sc to the Croatian Assembly. Young Cutures, Dr. Sc. Eduardo Kunstek, Dr. Sc. Maja Martinovic and Mrs Moran Paliković Gruden for members of the HRT Supervisory Board and established this proposal with an explanation to be submitted to the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65157	Thank you very much, Mr. Mikulić. We're going to a club debate, Mr. Miro Bulj first signed up, but I don't see him or anyone else who could replace him from the MOST. Mr. Nenad Stazic is here. Here you go. In front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65158	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Here, as we heard in the explanation of the respected chairman of the board, HRT has not had a supervisory board since 14 July 2017. So HRT does business without any supervision. It will not continue to be supervised because all proposed candidates are proposed by the parliamentary majority. So far, it has been good practice for a member of the Supervisory Board to be elected on a parliamentary minority proposal. In 2012, Mrs Anja Šovagović, who was currently chairman of the HDZ Culture Committee, was appointed to the HRT Supervisory Board. The SDP was then the parliamentary majority that accepted the parliamentary minority proposal and elected Ms. Šovagovic Despot to the Croatian Supervisory Board. That bang is now being cut off for unknown reasons. There will be no one on the HRT Supervisory Board if this proposal is voted upon, no one elected on a parliamentary minority proposal. It is clear to us why this is done, that HRT could be done as it pleases, because such a supervisory board, which is chosen by only the parliamentary majority, so if there are not a single member in it who could warn about irregularities, such a supervisory board will not actually oversee anything. He'll be covering for a mess, a ride, maybe a crime, that's what we're used to. Why has this Supervisory Board been amended on 14 July 2017? He was replaced without delay after delivering the report to the Croatian Parliament. And what did he find in that report? For example, on several occasions in 2016 the editor-in-chief structure of HRT was completely changed, including the almost complete installation of the editors-in-chief on radio and television. So the Board of Supervisors has established that a cleanup was made there. It is the supervisory board led by Ms. Anja Sovagovic Despot. So, we accepted then a proposal from the parliamentary minority to then join the Supervisory Board, she remained the chairman of the Supervisory Board, and she together with other members of the Supervisory Board knowingly and responsibly carried out her duty but was punished for it. So the HDZ didn't even care what they suggested there, the reason was that it was consciously doing its duty and that it sent an objective and accurate report to the Croatian Parliament. This report said that from 1 October to 11 November 2016 HRT didn't have a CEO because he didn't, so the Supervisory Board found it. And that finding was directed to the Croatian Parliament. The report said that a television and radio programme was broadcast without a predetermined programming scheme and that this resulted in requirements for exceptional rebalancing of the HRT financial plan. And why did it say that in that report signed by the respected president, Anja Sovagovic Despot? Because it was true. That was true. HRT was a messy, non-transparent business. Criminally, thievingly, and that's what the board of directors set up. And that's why he's been removed. It further stated that the purchase of audiovisual works from independent producers since 2016 has been fully non-transparent without clearly defined criteria. Watch out now, contracts with individual producers were concluded before the deadline for submitting applications to a public call. So HRT issued a public call for external producers, they answered an external call, but before the deadline for the application, HRT had already concluded contracts with one of these producers. Pure crime, pure crime. This is what the Supervisory Board has found and therefore the Supervisory Board has been removed. It says in the report sent to the Assembly, that instead of drama and documentary series that should be the largest share of the purchases of independent HRT producers, they provided culinary and similar shows instead of drama shows that were not available, instead of documentaries, how to cook chickens. And that's what they paid these independent producers. And I guess your friends with HDZ likers, who knows who. Thus, the tax money was spent, and the supervisory board found and sent it to the Croatian Parliament. One of the members of the Supervisory Board was Mr Miroslav Grgic. Since this entire supervisory board has been completely irrevocably removed for no reason, for a serious reason, because they have been knowingly doing their job. That's the only reason they've been replaced. The SDP now proposes that Mr Grgic be re-elected to this new committee. Why? Well, because he did his job knowingly and well, for nothing else. But HDZ won't. They're not gonna put anyone on the opposition's proposal. He wants all four members of the Supervisory Board, because the fifth is from the employees' ranks on their proposal. They want to keep getting shows about how to cook a chicken, that it's paid to HDZ-like people, in one word to continue crime. And if this supervisory board is elected this way on this HDZ proposal, it will be evidence, new proof that the HDZ does not care about anything but about theft, theft and crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65159	Thank you. We have one replica. Not a replica? As a proposer, then five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to admit, after such a theatre performance as the vice president of the board, I'm not going to comment on things and my personal attitude right now, because maybe someone would say I'm from some other political option, not those that some people think should have attitudes like this. I will only comment on some of the media performances and analysis of the media from my rich archives I have collected only part of it so that you can see who was doing the crime on Croatian Radio Television while the director was Mr. Radman. The first time the law was passed, you received a letter from the European Commission that told you what you are doing in the Croatian Parliament and what is the degree of your democracy, democracy in Croatia. Then you have four EU objections to the law. So much for your democracy, and now some things about shifts when you talk about shifts. Since the existence of HRT, there's never been such an editor's shift. It's said when I replaced people with hearts, they thanked me for saying that I got rid of them with a great burden, Shosho says. Djelo Hadziselimovic was surprised to learn that he was no longer an editor of a foreign programme, but Sosa answers: "What is now surprising, I explained everything to him and he is not really removed. It will have much more freedom." We want to move on. TV Taliban on Croatian Radio. Look at what these statements are and what it says about what the media published. Sanji Mikleušević Pavić opened his hands for shifts in informational. That's what all the media gentlemen have been publishing. It's all very easy to see. How about this: "HRT Bartholomew Night for editors on state television." During Mr. Radman, Mr. Novokmet had powers and he solved it. We'd like to talk to you about the fact that they've all been unstructured. How's that? Or maybe they had a different opinion from some, so some didn't like it. See the cover: “In five days there were 40 editors.” says Dean Soša, V.d. HTV editor-in-chief: “There are no cleanups, I have appointed only seven new people in the position of editors, and free hands for further staff changes only has a new editor of the information program.” Therefore, this third part of this moment will not be used when it comes to the selection of chief director, but believe me there are very interesting things. When we look at the documents that preceded and were the basis for the resolution of Goran Radman, we understand that both the Croatian Supervisory Board and the Parliament had then had a clear view of how HRT was doing under the direction of Mr. Radman and the directorship who chose and appointed. We sat together on a committee that made a decision to resolve the director at the time. Maybe if there's a need I'll be happy to read that board's decision to see what are the reasons for dispensing a director who e.g. I will not present to the Croatian Parliament a statement in the media, and I will not give him what the Croatian Parliament is looking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65161	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65162	Dear Representative Mikulić, it was interesting to listen to Mr Stazic's arguments against you from HDZ where he calls you for crime and nepotism on HRT. On the other hand, it was interesting to listen to your arguments against the SDP the same where you call the SDP for crime and nepotism on HRT. From the perspective of ordinary citizens, crime and nepotism appear to have been on HRT both in HDZ times and in SDP times. And in fact, it seems to me that both of you are right when you accuse each other of crime and nepotism or such conduct of HRT policy and I can only agree with you. Mr. Mikulić, I agree with you, Mr. Stazic, and I agree with you. So I actually want to express my joy that you actually opened your eyes to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65163	Mr. Mikulic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65164	Dear colleague Pernar. So I was just stating the facts and what the media published. The facts are the strongest weapon and against it is impossible... So if someone's mispublished something, they'll have to answer for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here's also when we talk, when we like to move the ball to this side of the assembly, everyone should answer for the crime. No party, no color, no smell, no one who did it. Here's one portal says HRT chief director Radman broke the law by suspending his salary. That's not what I said. That's what someone published. Then here he says because of this, but also because of the violations of several provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, Radman also earned a fine but also a public announcement of the Commission's decision, etc., etc. So I agree that everyone who has committed a misdemeanor should answer for it and have to answer for it and there are absolutely no exceptions. But we have to take care of it, so we're in the Croatian Parliament, the board has made some decision to explain why it solved someone. And it's publicly published, it's a document. So I can agree with one of your conclusions absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65165	Thank you. The second replica of Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65166	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear counterpart Mikulić, whenever we have debates here in this High House about HRT, we always have bile debates on both sides of the assembly in which the HDZ is accused I do not know who is accusing Radman of running HRT. On the other hand, the SDP now accuses HRT of turning public service into party television. And as my colleague said before me and one another, you're right. When we have the SDP in power, it's the party's SDP television, when we have HDZ, then it's HDZ's party television. And we have a possible crime, so even during the Radmans, we have probably now on HRT. But not only that, we have the fact that HDZ has proposed a certain person to the supervisory board of Anja Sovagović Despot who has acted as your possible minister and that this woman now warns about irregularities on public television and that you have replaced her. So that just shows that it's about stakeholders or parties, or party oligarchies that control public television and when they're in power. And people who have their own attitude and who think for themselves, if they oppose it, then come into trouble independently of their worldview. And these are the things that should be emphasized here, enough of these infertile debates and accusations. Admit to each other that you are responsible for the situation that you have brought to the public service and let's find ways to solve it. How to finally turn this public service into a public service. And not to have TV contributions that were ordered, so I said, I couldn't believe what kind of contributions I made the other night on HRT, amazingly, after one of my statements that was pulled out of context.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65167	Mr. Mikulić's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65168	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear comrade Grmoya, I agree that we are going to settle things so that we can really be the real public service that we should be. But I must remind you, therefore, by the provision of Article 20(7). The HRT Act provides that the procedure for the resolution of the head director of the HRT shall be initiated by the Supervisory Board and the motion for the resolution of the Director-General shall be submitted to the Committee, etc. for information. Remember these times, it was at your 8th session on February 29, 2016. I remember when we had one session because we were supposed to appoint the director of HRT, so you know it was delayed. Because it was you in the MOST who insisted that you have a deputy director of HRT. I remember for a long time, so let the Croatian public hear it. So it was a delayed session, like this, like that. We can talk about names if you want. So you insisted on it and lobbyed that a certain person must be the deputy director of HRT and you say SDP and HDZ were doing something, and you were in that part and you were doing it, and those are your names and last names that are available to everyone, you know who's doing it well, you know... Vice President, please, so he can't throw a representative out of the bench. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65169	Maybe he didn't hear because you're too close.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65170	No, no, but maybe with them at the Most, it's common, so people leave the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65171	.../Intruder Radin: When he threw you, you heard and I didn't, Mr. Grmoya don't throw away./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65172	Thank you very much for keeping the integrity of the Assembly MPs that apparently some in this House don't understand and they don't care about the truth. So they insisted on the deputy director, and they were having problems choosing the director and the supervisory board and let the Croatian public know. And for that there are papers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65173	Thank you very much. Once again, don't throw away in general. Mr. Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65174	Dear counterpart Mikulic, of course HRT must be a public service but I would say that any political option that comes into place has in fact the legitimacy and duty to humanize it at that time. So, for a while, we had a bullet... , the bullet policies on the HRT, the SDPs, so why don't you finally and HDZ do it in this sense and set up people he thinks are suitable for the supervisory board, why run away from it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here's an interesting thing for me, here's my colleague, here you'll correct me, the SDP's Supervisory Board has worked twice against Radman, and even the SDP has been replacing his supervisory board, and now he doesn't fit the other side's board. So how is the board that sets the HDZ going to pass – when his own supervisory board didn't respond to him, so they even replaced him at one point? But I'm worried about one other thing here, and I'll say more about it a little bit later. My colleague Stazic mentioned cooked chickens, and I'm gonna say concrete sleepers here. It's a show that we currently have on HRT that's showing up and it's about monumental concrete structures all over the former SFRY. From the space of SFRY and this is the description of this show on the official site of HRT, and otherwise with some buildings mentioned and processed in Croatia, the Goce Delev College in Macedonia, the House of Revolution in Kolasin, is that otherwise Montenegro, if you don't know, the House of Culture in Konjic, so is this a programme to be served to Croatian citizens? I don't think so. And that's why we're in position right now, thank God we are, to make sure that Croatian citizens no longer have to watch this kind of program.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65175	Mr. Grmoy, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65176	Dear Vice President, my colleague Zekanovic often has...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65177	.../Intruder Radin: Just an article say, please./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65178	238 counterpart Zekanovic often has outbursts in which he comments on MOST as a political option, I would warn him that MOST is a political option that has representatives from all parts of Croatia. [[Intruder Radin: Good.]] After all, as far as the city you mentioned is concerned, there is HDZ and there are people there who support both MOST and HDZ and SDP, there is no point in putting Metkovic in the context of a specific political option. The fact that it is my hometown, it is not the hometown of colleagues Sladoljev or colleagues of Panenic or colleagues of Ines Strenja-Linić, and I would ask that you do not use and put in that context the town of Metkovic. From the city where you come from, there is probably a representative of other political options, and the town of Sibenik cannot be tied to just your political action, as the city of Metkovic cannot relate only to my political action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65179	Thank you very much. That's an opinion, not an injury, and now I have to give my word to Mr. Zekanovic, who is also looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you to specify now...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65180	.../Intruder Zekanovic: 238./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65181	238, or to indicate actually where someone offended whom, etc., because in this case there were no insults on your part, but there was an opinion, now you tell me what happened by Mr. Grmoya that I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65182	There will be an apology on my part, I apologize to all Metkovci who have largely voted against the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65183	And that's your opinion, that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but let's move on. The answer to Mr Mikulic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65184	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Zekanovic, so absolutely I agree with you, therefore, the will of most is the will of the majority and we must respect it, it is democracy. We can agree that we are a young country so that some don't understand the system of democracy. You have rights, but you have obligations. And what is it supposed to be if the people gave the majority to one political option? So until yesterday, while this was not so, on the other hand, the assembly appointed directors despite complaints from the EU, passed laws, and they got pucks, etc., and what kind of directors they were, I'm going to illustrate it to you with one cover titled "The Chaos on HRT". Public television is shaken by scandals, the editorship of Dnevnik has been replaced three times, the gaffs are being stolen, and the year ended with 20 million kuna losses although they have guaranteed annual revenue from the subscription of nearly a billion and a half kuna. They always have to be fought.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65185	Okay. Today, the paper became scientific evidence for the first time in the Parliament. Mr. Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65186	So, instead of answering the asked question very logically why democratic practice is interrupted, and the supervisory board does not want to name anyone on the opposition proposal, distinguished counterpart Mikulic reads the old newspaper, yellowed and unnamed portals run by HDZ listeners. I'm surprised he didn't take a newspaper from sixty-three years old, so he reads them, too, to get to know us how HRT worked in '63. years, because they are obviously the only arguments that my colleague Mikulić has. He claims in his debate on behalf of the club, on behalf of the board, and the committee did not mandate him to do so at all, so he usurped his position as chairman of the board, to speak on behalf of the board and insinuate that there was crime at the time of Radman on HRT. Why didn't the DORH react if there was a crime? Why didn't you report it to DORH if you knew about the crime? And you know why? So DORH would be reading your paper and reacting himself. And he would, if he believed them. And they may have been checking, but they probably found that there's no crime there and that you're just insinuating and slandering because you don't have any other arguments, you don't have any other arguments. You're reading in that paper that gaffs are being stolen, and I'm saying HRT's being stolen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65187	Answer, Mr. Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65188	Thank you very much. Well, Reverend Trazic, I'm sorry I might have brought you a '63 paper. who are very dear to you and to your heart, but I am to you in '69. a year. So much for the papers. When we get back to 2014 and when we talk about newspaper headlines, then you'll know a little better about what editorial policy was in the media than we are. It's about this part. As to whether or not I said something that isn't true, it says on the headlines of the daily newspaper. So if it's not true, someone had to sue. Whether or not it is to be taken care of by the one they wrote about as I sued, so I got a final verdict for the lies. So that's the question of the rule of law. And I don't know why you're always talking about someone stealing something, kidnapping it, when you don't have a single argument. And I can only remind you and it writes nicely here. For the rapporteur who will explain the committee's proposal at the meeting, Andrija Mikulić is defined. When you're the chairman of the council board, then you'll do it. But as long as you're in the minority, you won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65189	Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65190	Thank you. So in the absence of a convincing answer to the question why the practice is changing that a representative on the opposition's proposal, Mr Mikulic, has brought a newspaper and argued something that was from a long time ago, except for representatives of the parliamentary majority. I usually think that while we were in power, HRT wasn't anything to us at all, and I have to admit that it was pretty often on my nerves, but I didn't say it at the time because it would be the pressure of politics on the editorial policy of public television. But I didn't have to admit much or take care of it. Therefore, the only question that is raised here is to get a clear answer, which is why the majority of the HDZ, HNS, minority representatives, the Milan Bandic club, HDSSB, HRAST and others decided to change the practice of a representative, one representative of the Croatian Parliamentary Minority Committee, and thus at least preserve the impression that this television is public, not state and by the government. And if it stays this way and doesn't change us very well, at least it'll be clear what kind of television it is and how we treat it. And secondly, please don't call on the people anymore. In one line you said the people gave most of the one option. Which one? HDZ HNS, HDZ and minorities? So, the people did not give most of this option, which now makes it a parliamentary majority, because it was created by transitioning and forging the will of the people, so don't at least call on the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65191	But it's not the first time that's happened. But it's not the first time, so let's just keep it on record. Here you go, Mr. Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65192	Thank you very much. So, Reverend Bauk, I can understand you, I can understand even your frustrations that you are in opposition. It's probably hard when you're the minister of power, and then you have to be in opposition. And as for this part of which you're talking about, that you didn't interfere in politics, I'll remind you that the last law was passed in 2010 in the Parliament by consensus, so in 2014 you went by force to bring something and you got pucks. And then you had to change something a little bit in 2014. I'll remind you of Bartholomew Night 40 editors. And I will continue to call upon the people despite your grief. Why weren't you able to put the story together so that you were in position? Why? Because the people told you what they think of your option, but okay. You have time. Now you might be better prepared for the next election cycle and that's it and there's no anger and we'll go to the election race again. So, it was you who influenced the policy of leading Croatian radio television in 2014. So I guess you know who's where he's been?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65193	Thank you very much. And in the end, Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honestly, listening to this debate, I don't know what agenda point we're discussing. Because if we are discussing the selection of the Supervisory Board, if there is some common parliamentary rule that some bodies should be appointed to represent the position and opposition, then it was logical for me to say that they had sent a proposal from a member of the Supervisory Board and that the Committee for Selection and Appointment did not respect it. If we stick to our own Rules of Procedure and stick to the good old rules of work in this House, then we wouldn’t spend at all a string of hard words accusing each other. Because look, there can only be a fact here, whether the SDP Club and other opposition clubs have agreed on their representative to the Supervisory Board and sent it to the board. And then if the board didn't appreciate it, then it's politically not correct. I have to say it openly. But if the SDP Club and the other members of the opposition clubs didn't do it and they attended the board session, then it's incorrect of them to speak in this way. Well, because of us who don't participate in the team, the work of those committees. And it might have been good for Mr. Mikulić that you immediately said in the first sentence, that the SDP because of its internal problems and forces that are among them, politically, was unable to speak about it by a member of the Supervisory Board. And not call it this, coalition partners in the ruling majority, I think it's extremely unfair and incorrect. And therefore, I ask you nicely as chairman of the board, to give me an answer, did you get a proposal from a member of the Supervisory Board from the SDP and other minority clubs, not a minority, but an opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65195	Thank you very much, thank you. Mr. Mikulić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, thank you for reminding me, so 32 or 3 days, we've been waiting, for our few questions, for the representatives of the opposition to give us their candidate, until the meeting of the board, they didn't give him up. For that reason, I also delayed and uninvited the session. At a committee meeting, counterpart Stazic moved, as a respected vice president of the candidates. And I said it was their candidate. I've replicated it to him and told him that we didn't get in spite of our application by the candidates, so is the opposition. Two days after the committee session was held, they became candidates. After the board has already made decisions on which they are candidates, which will be sent to the Croatian Parliament. Two days later, their club president was signed. Whether someone inside their family had problems, let them solve it within themselves. But on our repeated search, we haven't had a candidate in 32 or 3 days. What were we supposed to do? 15 more days to wait? So let them make a deal with each other. So, they didn't suggest it, when it was voted out, that these were candidates, two days after that came the proposal. So, by dates, everything is very easy to determine.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65197	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the club debate. Mr. Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65198	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. My speech will not be a defense of HRT as a public service, as there have been many in this House in my six terms. Because the situation on HRT is indefensible and indefensible. Well, I don't have any arguments that could be expressed in the defense of HRT and its present state. My speech won't be a criticism either, because I'm a coalition partner and I'll refrain from criticizing what we share as a shared responsibility. But given the state of the HRT, I'd better keep my obituary. But since it's no place for me to hold necrologies here, I'm not going to hold a necrologue. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representing the people and defence state institutions and public institutions in their functioning by ourselves, of partial, private or any other interest, or poor condition, which can exist in these institutions, these are the highest objectives that we as representatives can pursue. And when the defense of the Croatian public service institution is Wednesday, what we heard is no defense. But they're unproductive accusations about what it is or what it might have been and we won't be involved in it. The fact that we are receiving a report for 3 years for 2014, 2015 and 2016 on the financial situation is contrary to all the rules this House should respect. I suppose it's against the regulations this House should respect and that's what I want to say here. With all due respect to fellow Stazic and counterpart Mikulić, but it is unacceptable for a report on the financial operations of a public institution, whose founder, is appointed director, to be appointed by the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council, to be received from 3 years later. What's the excuse for that? We haven't heard from him, we don't know him, and as far as I'm concerned, I have no obligation in any way to accept or support what has arrived. Secondly, the HRT Supervisory Board has not been operational for almost a year. The former committee submitted a report that was critical of the administration it was then. Prior to that, at a time mentioned by counterpart Mikulic, the administration also had a conflict with the supervisory board. What's going on? Are we obliged to defend those bodies that need to act independently on HRT when they conflict and disrespect each other's powers? We did. Did we do that? We didn't. Now we're selecting new members of the Supervisory Board. Have we checked whether all candidates have been selected in accordance with the applicable rules? Is there anyone that might be in conflict of interest to the potential? Is there anyone who may not be chosen because he is already in some position to move him into a place like the Supervisory Board? That's why I'm asking because we didn't participate in this story as part of the ruling coalition in any way, either advisoryly or advisoryly. And contribute to the state of affairs, to stick to the necrologous HRT, we won't. We won't. We don't want to. Our moral sense doesn't allow it. So as the Club of Representatives of the SDSS concerns, we express very serious concerns about the state of the HRT according to what little information we have. Who's the director of HRT? Is that the one we chose or is that someone we didn't choose? Who's taking the shot? Who's organizing it? Who runs the financials? As an agent, I want to know if the one I supported with my hand and the hands of my club's representatives is really the headmaster of HRT, or is it someone third or second? I've been preparing to say this for a long time, I thought I'd do it in breaks, but since I don't support you because there's a means of destructiveing the work of this Parliament, because they're a means of not discussing anything other than what some MPs think should take advantage of in the morning when the cameras are there, when journalists aren't too tired, when the public still has some interest. Therefore, I will not be involved in this because I will have to hold a necrologus for this Assembly soon, whose individual colleagues and colleagues are working on their heads by eliminating the interest in the legitimate topics that exist in this House, turning it into a hoax and a chat room. My club won't contribute to that, but it won't contribute to this thing called HRT in this way either. I apologize to my colleagues, coalition partners, and I apologize to all of you, but according to everything we know, the situation on HRT is such that we don't know who is who, that we don't know who is who and that we get reports from three years late, that a supervisory board report isn't accepted, that the previous supervisory board, the director was disbanded and attacked by all means, the director who was chosen from the left side of the scene, is inadmissible. If this is a picture of how we manage public services and public institutions, then it's better not to get involved. But if someone wants to privatise, if that's how someone wants to privatise the HRT that was already here and in the time of Milanovic's government, the commercializations of the most different species, the giving in to the attack of the most different private interests should do so but let it go without us and we will say ours. HRT's ratings are 3%. Because of human resources and software solutions, hundreds of thousands of viewers lose their HRT. And long ago, it stopped being what it was meant to be with resources, with people, with experience, with the programme of leading television in the state and leading radio in the country. But it's not. The HRT archives are based on some private televisions. HRT cameras are located in different private hands. And we're gonna raise our hands here for that? We won't. My hand won't have any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65199	Three replicas. First Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65200	You're wondering if any of the colleagues proposed in the conflict of interest might be interested. One of the proposed doctors is Eduar Kunštek, a member of the State Judiciary Council. He did not enter the State Judiciary Council as an official, as a state official, that is true, but the State Judiciary Council is certainly a body of state authority. And it's completely inappropriate for someone who's a member of a government body to enter the HRT Supervisory Board. We'll be sure to pick Dr. Kunschtek, who we don't normally have anything against, we think he's a respected scientist, but he simply can't perform that these two duties are incompatible. We will certainly ask for that opinion because they are the only ones who can do so from the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest because we do not want to go over it peacefully. I think this proposal makes the HDZ a bear service to an esteemed doctor of science by proposing it not one function that is actually incompatible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65201	Answer, Mr. Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65202	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Stazic. I don't know a definitive answer about the questions being asked, but I know who can give that answer. That answer can be given by people who are authorized to interpret such questions. And if there is a sign of such a thing, then the committee responsible should have consulted legal experts who should have given an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65203	Thank you very much. The second replica of Mrs. Petriyevcanin-Vuxanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65204	Thank you very much, Vice President, and thank you for the exact pronunciation of the last name, which is a rare case. Dear fellow Pupovac, your questions which are rhetorical who is who, where is who to add the third question, which is where is the money on HRT. And here is the same opportunity, given that the committee responsible is in charge of HRT's business to mention the issue of transparent accounting on HRT which is a very, very important issue and that the European Commission has recently received a complaint from the Agency regarding transparent accounting on HRT. We know that HRT, as a beneficiary of the state budget, has already been warned several times about non-transparent accounting and has been asked by the European Commission to make transparent developments on the one hand of marketing revenues, and on the other hand, revenue from the tax. And at the same time, we know that every beneficiary of the state budget needs to conduct transparent accounting of their products, so their real prices. And what about HRT and how long has it been going? There's gonna be a chance we can talk about this later, and they're running accounting like their annual budget for the 300 million kuna program. So every layman would ask himself here how it is possible for a single television activity, which is the production and presentation of the programme, has real revenue of 1.4 billion per year, and spends only on the core activity of 300 million kuna. And then where are those 1.1 billion kunas left? That's the question. And I think that HRT should first of all transparently display its costs here, but also to the entire Croatian public because the public needs to know what the money is spent on since it pays the subscription. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65205	Thank you, too. Mr. Pupovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65206	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. You said more than I could say about it, although I respect what you said, and I'm going to add only one thing, there will be no transparency in the management of finances if there is no respect for the findings of the Supervisory Board, if the reports are not submitted regularly, and not with a delay of three years, and there will be no transparency if there is no knowledge of whose authority on HRT, who is the real director, and that is the formal director, for example, who lobbys for certain members of the supervisory chamber we choose here, and who has no interest in that. And he who lobbys for individual members of the Supervisory Board should not stink of such a possible solution. And we're going to put up with that kind of money and all that potential, as far as I'm concerned, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65207	Thank you very much. The last replica, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65208	Thank you very much. I fully agree with you that the financial reports of the general body that appoints this High House should be adopted in the calendar year following that report. And I think this is ours we had the other day debate about HOO the same in 2014, 2015 is a dog story. However, what is very controversial in your discussion and in some others is that we appoint bodies, and apparently those bodies do not know clearly what their job is because we will have some kind of report afterwards. If we appoint the Supervisory Board, if this Supervisory Board submits a report, this House shall, on the basis of that report, draw certain conclusions. And why am I telling you this? Because, personally, as finance minister in December 2005, I experienced one catharsis and, later, I suffer constant media shocks only because I respected this March 2003 High House's decision and tried to collect 250 million HRT's debt. There was a play by the current director and one representative of an NGO who liked to boast about transparency, etc., they made a play with which they forged when the document came from the Ministry of Finance. At that time, state institutions, including the Tax Administration, identified certain irregularities. But some were not interested in a part of that report being published, and do you know what it was about? It was that some when they were in Croatia housing loans with interest rates of 15, 16 received loans at a very low interest rate based on which they were taxpayers of income tax from all policy options. And then who was supposed to get hurt was the easiest shot at the finance minister because he's guilty of everything in this country anyway. So if he gets attacked by both HRTs and the crew, it won't hurt anything. [[Thank you, Mr. Shucker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65209	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Pupovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, I remember that and where I am lucky that you've gone through with it and you haven't. ... That the whole surveillance policy persisted and that the control of the contracts that were being concluded was such that an objective picture could be obtained of what was happening and that the bodies at the time of Radman and at the time of the current director and at the time of his predecessor could do their job properly, but one way or another we would have a supervisory board that would be to our extent or we would have a Programme Council that would be to our extent or to the extent of the administration, or we would not be to abandon him as they say in the people. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Do we, as agents, have to allow that? No, I don't. It's against everything we've sworn. We here need to guarantee all assumptions that HRTs function as an independent public institution and public service with as little interference as possible by political interests or by private financial interests. But the same person who has to do everything to make it work on the same principles. It should have been reformed a long time ago. All those who came were announcing reforms. That's not gonna happen. This house is falling apart in front of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65211	Thank you. Let's move on with the clubs. Mr. Branko Bacic on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, because of our viewers, and probably they can't figure out what this is all about today in the Parliament and what the subject is and what the agenda is. From the debate so far, it would be concluded that we are discussing or discussing the report on the work of the HRT submitted by the Director-General, or we are talking about the Report of the Programme Council, or we are discussing the Report on the operation of the HRT submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the Supervisory Board. So not one of the three points that could be concluded from the debate so far is the Croatian Parliament at this point, but we are discussing the selection of members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. Then he would ask all fellow MPs and colleagues to then try to stick to the agenda points because of how and how public service or Croatian broadcasting should be done in the next four points. So after this point, if we finish it and when we finish it, we'll have plenty of time and plenty of space to discuss through the next four points. So now I'd go back to the scale of this agenda point. So today in the Croatian Parliament, we are discussing the proposal of the Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the selection of four members of the Croatian Radio Television and because the same Assembly was resolved by 4 members of the Supervisory Board just 5 months ago, on July 13, this year. Both in its decision and in its explanation, the Supervisory Board proposes, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament five months ago and the reasons why the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board was resolved. And it was not resolved how fellow Stazic insinuated it because he submitted a report on the business of Croatian Radio Television to the Croatian Parliament. It is not a colleague of Stazic and you know it very well, so I object to you for having fully taken the debate on behalf of the club in another direction, which then contributed to these bile disputes in the Assembly, but rather, the Croatian Parliament resolved the Supervisory Board on the proposal of the same, this same Media Committee, informing and informing the Croatian Parliament because this Supervisory Board did not respect the fundamental law under which the law was appointed and established, which is the Law on HRT. That was the reason. And you can read my colleague Stazic, but you know it very well only doesn't suit you politically, so you "pilled upside down" by assembling the reasons for the Board's removal because they submitted the report on HRT's business, but have been resolved because they did not respect the Croatian Law and which is why they were four times warned by the Croatian judiciary. Twice the Commercial Court in Zagreb told them you do not comply with the HRT Act. You have the basic law lex specialis of your business when it comes to the selection of the director-in-chief of Croatian radiotelevision. It's not the Law on Institutions, it's the Law on HRT by your government, which your colleague Mikulić had just said earlier that because of this law, you were getting pucks from the European Commission. And on two occasions, the Commercial Court in Zagreb said you are not the right gentlemen from the Supervisory Board of Croatian Television, you are not acting according to the law which determines the appointment process of the Croatian Radio Television Director. Then he told the same Supervisory Board, which was therefore resolved by the High Commercial Court in Zagreb, and they had little to do with the Supervisory Board that was resolved, and then he had to be told the Administrative Court in Zagreb. So, in his work, the Supervisory Board, which was resolved on July 13th, has tried four times to violate the HRT Act and has been warned by the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia four times, that it is acting against the law. And that was the fundamental reason why that supervisory board was cleared. After the Supervisory Board has been resolved, the Committee for Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament, 6 days after that, on 19 July, will open a tender, i.e. public invitation, for new members of the Supervisory Board. After that public call was made, it seemed to me, 31 candidates for a member of the Supervisory Board. And on 4 October, the Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament, conducted an interview with all candidates who met the requirements. Since then, since 4 October, after the list has been completed. After it was established that 31 candidates met the conditions for being a member of the Supervisory Board. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, therefore, on behalf of a large part of the ruling majority, and in agreement with others, I am talking to the president, the biggest opposition party and my dear colleague Arsen Bauk. ... Club president, counsel club. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, maybe I'm psychic. So, the president of the Club of Representatives and I say, in accordance with our good practice, he will propose a candidate who will be a member of the Supervisory Board in front of the opposition in the Croatian Parliament. [[I love you without any trespasses, please.]] Since we've already been working together for a year and he's a mathematician, and I'm an engineer, we quite precisely define the quotas, in which the working body of the Croatian Parliament will be represented by the ruling and representatives of the opposition, up to the decimal point often. And we're making a deal. And all appointed working bodies in the Assembly, so far, appointed by the Croatian Parliament, have respected such quotas. And never the rulers took their seats against the opposition. Never. However, we have agreed and always found ways to fill all the working bodies of the Parliament, respecting the number of MPs from the opposition and the number of MPs from the ruling majority. By saying on behalf of the ruling, the same ones who have resolved, the existing former Supervisory Board, because of the non-compliance with the HRT Act, that they should choose whoever they want, from 31 candidates, other than those members, which we have resolved because they did not comply with the law. And we were waiting for a proposal, from the SDP and from the opposition, to the 19th, it seems to me, until November 17th, because we didn't want the public service, that HRT was long functioning without an important body like the Supervisory Board. And we knew we were about to take a break. Stanka's performing tomorrow, practically. And we wanted the Supervisory Board at this session, the Croatian Parliament to elect the Supervisory Board at this session. And we didn't get a harmonised candidate proposal. There was a fellow SDP proposal and another candidate, so he withdrew, that proposal, that is, I have a feeling that two problems were with our fellow opposition. The first reason is that you couldn't agree on a candidate, respected friends, that's the first reason, and the second reason, is that you wanted not to postpone the candidate, so that you could then accuse the ruling to work from a public service party television. And that's true. And until the last day, while the board was called, you had the door open, suggest whoever you wanted, just not the people we solved five months ago, because they didn't act in accordance with the law. It was our only condition. We can't name the people we solved yesterday because they didn't respect the law. After that, at the session itself, you transferred the management of the person, who was a member of that body that we had resolved, it was already too late, because already then, members of the supervisory board were agreed on the one hand. And on the other hand, that candidate was unacceptable. I don't know much about this man, I don't know, almost nothing. I believe that the man rightly, in his best interest, was a member of the board of directors. I do not wish to mention his name, but he was a member of the Supervisory Board that the Croatian Assembly resolved, because he did not act under the Law on HRT, which in his business, the Supervisory Board respected another law, which in this and for this procedure must not be implemented but the Law on HRT. Four times their decisions were annulled, decisions by either the Administrative Court, or the Higher Commercial Court, or the Commercial Court in Zagreb. And that was our only reason. But, I repeat, it's my impression, after our conversations and my frequent questions to your SDP colleagues, that you didn't actually want to give it, that you would welcome this moment to accuse the ruling, that you want to make a public service party television. That's not true. That's not true and you know it very well, because we talked about it for a long time, even at one point we got another candidate, who was acceptable to us and we had already given it to the Media Committee, but then you withdrew it and again you did not give us a proposal, until, at the session itself, Col. Stazic did not propose to the management of the person who was a member of the former Supervisory Board. And that's the whole truth about the board of directors. And another thing, about how close any of the members attached are or a member of the HDZ, we can talk about it as much as you want. This was the basis of the Croatian Law for one member of the Supervisory Board to be a legal profession, for another member of the Supervisory Board to be an economic profession and for at least one member to come from a well-known media in Croatia. These were the criteria that led us in the ruling majority to propose to be a member of the HRT Supervisory Board. And that is why this architecture of the Supervisory Board would be satisfied, so that within the ruling majority, a kind of consensus has been reached on the election of members of the Supervisory Board. Therefore, here and with this I will conclude, I call on all MPs to support this proposal of members of the Supervisory Board, which was proposed by the Committee on Information and Media, and we have more bodies, there is still more until all the bodies of the HRT are formed, where the entire mirror of Croatian society in the work of Croatian television as a public service can be clearly seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65213	Thank you, too. We have several replicas, the first Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65214	The reason for the ex-supervisory committee's removal is now made up here and at that meeting of the Media Committee, led by respected counterpart Mesic, he was also made up of non-compliance with the law. And that conclusion that non-compliance with the law has been voted by the parliamentary majority, the conclusion is not voted by the will of the parliamentary minority, it is made up. The real reason is that they exercised oversight and reported it to the Parliament. Now, with the Members' proposal, I have brought to the Committee a proposal for a parliamentary minority, nowhere in our Rules of Procedure does it say that it must be given in writing, it is not in the Rules of Procedure. I made the proposal before the vote, but the respected Mikulić did not want to hear it. And thirdly, if you don't care about fully controlling the Supervisory Board, so why didn't you now propose to select three of your own, and fourth place you could have left vacant and filled in later on on the opposition proposal, that would be fair and that would be consistent with what the respected president of the HDZ Club of Representatives says. But that's not the HDZ's intention, the HDZ's intention is to appoint all four and fully control the supervisory board. Why would we suggest Grgic? Well, because he did his job well, just because it would be like choosing the vice president of the Parliament to say, look, let the opposition suggest who they want, but it can't be like Arsen Bauk, it can't be. Why? Because we don't like him. But that's not the way to choose. Excuse me, if the opposition has the right to propose, he has the right to propose. And democracy is the will of the majority, with respect for the rights of the minority, it's democracy. But you have no idea what democracy is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65215	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65216	I thank my colleague Stazic for teaching from democratic behaviour both in the parliament and otherwise in political life. If it wasn't for you, we wouldn't really know what democracy is. The first thing, you're wrong, so you didn't exactly propose a candidate in writing, but here's the present board president who didn't take it for harm, so you refused because you didn't write it down, but your proposal put it on vote, and that candidate didn't get the votes you needed. Why? Because I've told you five times already that the Supervisory Board whose member he was is resolved because he tried three times towards the Commercial Court in Zagreb to appoint the interim director of the HRT against the Croatian Law. And if that's not enough reason for you to tell someone you can't be a member of the Supervisory Board when you insist on breaking the law by virtue of which the law is appointed to the Supervisory Board, I don't know what else you need to explain here. Three times they proposed... Director of the Commercial Court and all these times it was rejected and confirmed by the High Commercial Court in Zagreb and it was the only criterion for the ruling majority that someone could not be a member of the Supervisory Board, no other. You had the opportunity to do whatever you wanted, and you suggested a gentleman not to name him now because we're not going to name him that I don't name, and if you were left here today, he'd be appointed here. But you didn't want to do it, so now you can accuse this right-hand side of the assembly of not knowing democratically thinking that it doesn't respect democratic principles... That's not true and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65217	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65218	Thank you very much. In your presentation, you explained very well the whole situation about the election of this HRT Supervisory Board. But I want you, too, but I want all of us back at that time from a few years ago when we cried out here as an opposition then not to violate the good practice of the Croatian Parliament at the Law on HRT, then at the selection of directors, but also all other bodies of HRT. And as their colleagues acted then, if they didn't want to listen to us, not that they didn't want to agree, but they were coming with the proposals, you can either participate or you can leave the assembly. It was not only on HRT, it was also with the Committee of Conflict of Interest, both with the state's attorney and with all those elections within which the Parliament could give its opinion. Many elections were held without opposition. And today we hear from the opposition that good practice should be respected, and we have all done that practice to continue from the very beginning of this mandate, in all bodies. However, it is obvious that when you come down to the opposition, at least when we talk about colleagues on the other hand to forget how they acted. And then we told them that you were publicly afraid of the law and the procedure that you bring while you were in power, because when you came down from power, everything would bother you, up to one law and up to one procedure that you set up. And we're looking at it from their side today. When they gave us the director of the election, the main reason we wanted that man back then was because TV would be back in the '70s and '60s. As it ended, we saw it recently and well that it ended.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65219	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Boris, I agree with you, I have been sitting in this assembly for a long time, and I know how much we have and how we have criticised individual appointment decisions, the choice of officials appointed by the Croatian Parliament. No one here has asked us anything, nor have we taken part in anything. But that would bring me back now and I don't want to talk about it. But I'd like to tell you something else, here's what I didn't say on behalf of the club while I was exhibiting, we were even prepared as a HDZ club on behalf of the ruling majority, and after the Media Committee proposed four candidates, we were ready to withdraw from four candidates just to give us colleagues from the SDP who meet the criteria, which is that he wasn't a member of the former Supervisory Board. And nothing more. And even, even the negotiations were held on that trail, but it was not simply wanted but started by insisting on the person who was a member and against whom I personally had nothing, personally I don't even know, except the criteria that he couldn't be a member of someone who had previously been in the previous council of supervisors, and that's the person that SDP has just insisted on knowing that we won't accept that then here today this little play could be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65221	Thank you very much. Replica now, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65222	Thank you. So there are four logical errors in your presentation. The first logical mistake you have now further stressed is that it is not a problem for you to be one representative of the opposition but that for you the problem is a specific person by name and last name. Okay, so with your résumé, so the person with his résumé. Of course, that's always the question of whether or not we from the opposition will agree to someone else narrowing down the premises of our representatives. And we were just talking about it inside the club and inside the party and we concluded that if you agreed now to determine who you couldn't and someone else couldn't have any more arguments that then it could spread to our club members on committees etc.. We had one case with HDZ in the previous assembly of the Parliament when they wanted someone else to be president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. That's why we didn't agree to it. Secondly, from the debate so far, the only one who has therefore been said not to accept the proposal is Mr. Pupovac of the ruling majority. I, perhaps one of my colleagues will deny me from other clubs, no one has disputed from the opposition our proposal to Mr Grgic and the ruling one has challenged the proposal of these four candidates, that's another logical. Third, that there is no written proposal but there is no written proposal by the parliamentary majority about members of the board of directors who have come to the board, is that right, Mr Mikulcu? It seems to me that the material for the board was not a proposal from the HDZ Club that it was our 4th, so now we have to make our proposal. And four, what remains will be recorded that while we were in power, we elected the chairman of the HDZ Culture Committee to the Supervisory Board and you, if such a proposal remains for any of the opposition. And that's it, here's four logical things, so now I expect an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65223	Thank you. Here you go. Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bauk, no logical mistake has been made in my presentation and you know it very well. So you deliberately proposed a candidate whom the Croatian Assembly together with the other candidates, i.e. members of the Supervisory Board, had resolved because, according to the decision and explanation that was an integral part of that decision, they did not respect the Law on HRT. It's beautifully written in the Decision on the resolution of members of the Supervisory Board, which are the reasons why they are being resolved. And you're part of the opposition parties, whether it was your proposal or all the other members and MPs from the opposition, I don't know, maybe you could say that to your colleagues from MOST, that might be said by colleagues from the Living Wall, that could be said by colleagues from Independently for Croatia, from GLAS, whether they are from HSS, whether they were involved in the proposal of the gentleman proposed by Mr Stazic at the session of the Supervisory Board itself, so I would like to hear the same thing about seeing if there are, in your logic of logical mistakes, I don't know. You wanted to propose him then show the ruling majority how he could be a member of the Supervisory Board and then consequently means he wasn't in violation, that he wasn't a member of the Supervisory Board who broke the law. That was yours, that was yours. We will return the man who was on the former Supervisory Board, to the Supervisory Board, and thus the ruling majority will confirm that for political reasons on July 13th, the Supervisory Board has changed, not because the Supervisory Board has not acted in accordance with the HRT Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65225	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65226	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Bačić, it is good that you have actually returned from that debate about the HRT Report, in fact, to the right point of the agenda, and this is the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Supervisory Board. But I, and I believe others, wonders the inaccuracy of Mr. Bačić to the SDP precisely in what you were talking about, because there is parliamentary practice and arrangements to do so with the position or opposition in the appointment of not only members of the Supervisory Board but also other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and everything that Croatia actually appoints. But since you also said in your discussion that you specifically spoke to Mr. Arsen Bauk as an excellent mathematician, I must tell you that either suggest or advise to be careful. Remember only Mr. Bauk's amendments to funding units of local self-government, so you will see that in his divisions then in a percentage amount that should have been 100% put in actually 115% always asked for a little more. And here we are at the end of this replica before we actually heard and it showed how much it manipulates logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65227	I thank my colleague Babic. Well, here I am with my colleague, Bauk, despite this little forest in communication, working well together. I don't think that this is where my colleague Bauk was part of the SDP who stood up for the candidate proposed by Mr. Stazic, because in the talks that lasted almost a month we had already agreed on a candidate who seemed to have been Mr. Bauk's candidate. So I don't blame him in this together. And as club president, he obviously has to cover some other problems in the functioning of his own club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65228	I thank my colleague Babic. Well, here I am with my colleague, Bauk, despite this little forest in communication, working well together. I don't think that this is where my colleague Bauk was part of the SDP who stood up for the candidate proposed by Mr. Stazic, because in the talks that lasted almost a month we had already agreed on a candidate who seemed to have been Mr. Bauk's candidate. So I don't blame him in this together. And as club president, he obviously has to cover some other problems in the functioning of his own club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65229	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shucker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65230	Thank you very much. Comrade Bacic, when the SDP is being replaced, it is the reach of democracy because they say we have taken responsibility for the state and we must enter all the pores so that they can answer for it. So just remember those great principals and the visitors. Remember the stories with the director of HRT, with the board of directors, it was either take it or leave it. So if you said in your first interview that people who have sinned about the law can't be a member of a new supervisory body because it's going to be a logical thing to be a remethylative factor, then the SDPs used that classic logic when you can't agree on yourself because of the political treasuries, then suggest something that can't pass. Because what is it? The other side in the negotiations told you who couldn't be. And if you insist on being that guy all the time, then it makes sense that you can't make a deal within your own party. Because I completely doubt that the SDPs want to put this guy, with all due respect to the man, that he's there, rather than their internal political problem. It's a fact and it should be agreed. And then when today's representative of the SDP Club can't explain it properly, then we go to that system, it's the easiest thing to charge HDZ with thieving and you've solved all the problems. But the fact is what you said, they were offered the opportunity to practically, so here at the session I can suggest another man who meets those agreements that were, which is that he can't be a member of the Supervisory Board who broke the law, he didn't behave in accordance with the law, and the matter will be resolved. I don't see what the problem is right now. So Mr. Mikulić can call the board tomorrow morning before the vote. This committee can propose new three members of the ruling and one member of the opposition and we have solved all the problems. But apparently the SDPs have a problem inside of them and as they usually do, it's always someone else's fault for their problems, so now the HDZs are guilty that they have a thousand and one direction that can't be arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65231	I thank Mr. Shuker. My colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65232	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, fellow Shuker. You reminded me not in 2012 when Kukuriku Vlad came and when the law we appointed company management, members of the supervisory boards of commercial companies were appointed to me until then by the basis of a public tender and a public call, then came to Kukuriku Government and amended it and said that by the decree of ministers they would appoint members of supervisory boards and members of the management of commercial companies. As I now remember when I was here in this same assembly saying that this is not good, how it is necessary to name people by the basis of a public competition, here's my colleague Stazic, as I now remember, he said, "No. This is what they are anyway," says "Finged public calls, fixed public tenders. The government that wins the election is a political option that takes responsibility in the elections and the minister has the right to place a person of its highest confidence there, even if he is a member of the SDP or a member of any other party from the ruling coalition has the right to set up there because it is the principle of trust and it is clear that the minister will have the best, most trust in the person he has appointed himself, and by a foreign invitation and a public tender." That is what you reminded me of, so here in this context would be answered. But I'm saying, despite that, we didn't want to. We wanted to have a consensus to select members of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board and we were open until the last minute to act in this way and during this election.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65233	I thank my colleague Bačić. ... Please choose another time and place for each other. [[jamour in assembly.]] On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65234	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. So first of all, allow me an apology to my colleague, Bauk. The same day after the Committee, you sent four amendments. Not two days after that. An apology. The fact is always a fact. As for the speech of the Honorable Vice-President of the Committee of Stazic, I am sorry, but I do not know why you are saying something that is not true. When we had a situation like this on the Committee, so at the 11th session, that's what MP Bačić said, held on 17 November 2017, the Committee on Information, Information and Media held a debate on candidates. The following candidates, candidates, are proposed, without titles: Mladen Kutura, Morana Paliković Gruden, Edward Kunštek, Maja Martinović and Miroslav Grgic. You said I didn't accept it. That's not true. On the board we also discussed candidate Miroslav Grgic, individual vote was held on each candidate and 7 votes were held for Mladi Čutur, 2 abstentions, for Morana Paliković Gruden 9 for, for Eduardo Kunstek 7 votes and 2 abstentions, for Maja Martinović 7 for and 2 abstentions and for Mr Miroslav Grgić 2 votes for, 6 against and 1 abstention. In accordance with Article 22(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on HRT decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament candidates who received these votes, or most of the votes they were to receive. So much for respecting good democratic practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65235	I thank my esteemed colleague Mikulic. Replica, dear fellow Stazic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65236	Yes, at the committee meeting, the parliamentary majority, 6 MPs of the parliamentary majority in this committee did not accept the parliamentary minority's proposal. It rejected the parliamentary minority's proposal. It's a democracy for you. I have tried to teach you what democracy is, the rule of the majority, with respect for the rights of the minority. If it is a minority's right to propose to its candidate and if the minority used that right at the session, you could have done two things. Support this proposal, therefore, to show that you are democratic or to do what you have done by voting, to reject that proposal and to claim that it is democracy. By the way, the argument that the former Supervisory Board has been removed because of the violation of the law and that it has also established a commercial court, that is incorrect. Because he declared himself incompetent at all about the matter. Therefore, these are the fictitious reasons for the removal of Grgić and others, and the real reasons are also mentioned in the letter sent by the former chairman of the Supervisory Board, Ms. Anja Šovagović Despot, to the public and to this Parliament. That's where they tell you the real reasons. So she was elected to the Supervisory Board on the HDZ proposal. You believed she'd be obedient. That's where you're wrong. A woman is honest, not obedient. And she explained the real reasons in her letter. And that's why you replaced her. Both her and Grgic. And that's why Grgic is unacceptable to you. Well, because he's human and he's telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65237	Thank you, fellow Stazic. Answer, colleague Mikulić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65238	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic, I did not speak of the court's verdicts but you have four views on it, court rulings, four. You want to talk about not respecting something the court has brought? I don't think that's how I work and talk. The democracy so we agreed that it was the will of the majority and we said, you suggested, your legitimate democratic right was to propose a candidate. Dear Representative Bacic told you that you went on purpose despite the talks and agreements on candidates and at that session, let's go to the details now. You asked me if we would support our colleague Grgić, I said that your club did not make a proposal and that I had argued earlier, only after the decision your club gave amendment four with a proposal from the fellow concerned. Therefore, I do not know why you claim that the will of the majority is not respected. Well, we voted. Two days ago, at the board meeting, we were all unanimous, or unanimous, about the proposal we made yesterday. So I don't know why we're arguing something that's not just true.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65239	I thank my esteemed colleague Mikulic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Mikulic, I would not enter into this debate over the agreement and disagreement of members of the ruling group and the opposition. But what I'm interested in as a member of this House is the possibility that the Supervisory Board, each of which we are discussing today, and the one that was yesterday and the one who will be in the future, will do its job independently and uninterruptedly. And the fact is, my colleague Mikulic, that we couldn't get a full report from the supervisory board that was working at the time of Director Kovačić and which was replaced this year. Why? Because the directorate of television decided that some parts of the supervisory board's findings were classified. So who's watching who? The Board of Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board of Directors? That's what we're talking about. And when my dear colleague Bacic teaches me what to talk about, which I shouldn't have talked about, I tell him I'm talking about. In the most honest care of that house if she gets more help. And especially with this kind of debate. The Board of Supervisors has autonomy the same as the Director, we choose him. And we need to protect him. And the fact that someone is declaring certain parts to him a secret, and that the Chamber's parent board is not discussing it, that's what worries me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65241	I'd like to thank my colleague Pupovci. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Comrade Pernar, do you want to speak or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65242	.../Intruder Pernar: They say in English how yes no, how not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65244	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to look back at HRT's work in the past term, but first of all, I would like to look back at the way the SDP led the HRT. Namely, the SDP shifts non-transparentity to HDZ, but I must remind a few details throughout the story. I remember when the elections for the President of the Republic were then what happened? It happened that Aleksandar Stankovic, the leader of the HRT, called all the candidates except Ivan Vilibor Sincic to my party joke. Why did Ivan Vilibor Sincic bother the gentlemen of HRT or Aleksandr Stankovic? You'll probably say that's the case, and I say the case, but even for which paradox he was, he even called all candidates for HDZ President Stankovic, but not when they were presidential elections, then he didn't call all the candidates. Why? Because for him, obviously the elections within the HDZ were more important than the presidential elections. You'll say probably by playing the case it happened that he didn't call, okay. We're going to the case number two of the parliamentary elections we're coming in, what's going on with HRT, then it's still a famous Radman. What does Radman do, ladies and gentlemen, does anyone remember? Radman remains in control of the SDP, doing the face-to-face in a way that does not call the Parliamentary Party The Living Wall, which clearly crosses the electoral threshold in the polls. Today's polls are predicting good success, but HRT didn't matter. And then when we complained about what SDP is doing ladies and gentlemen, or HRT under SDP control? He's doing something that HDZ hasn't done, cancels the confrontation. So for the first time in HRT history under the SDP leadership of the SDP that talks about tolerance, dialogue, some fairer approach, honesty, principle, etc., SDP abolishes confrontation. Ladies and gentlemen, is that how public television is run? And then now, after all that, you're hypocritically coming in and calling the HDZs. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about here? Let's move on. The situation of HRT becomes fake news, HRT announces, it is now HDZ has fingers in it, announces Sincic is no longer president of the Living Wall. That was news on HRT. And I'm calling you from HRT. The journalist calls me and I tell him it's not true that he's not president anymore. No, he doesn't say I don't care, I say good. I asked him if after that information turned out to be incorrect, if you'd apologize to me, he said of course I wouldn't, of course I wouldn't. Is that the objective principle on which HRT works? We can move on, we're coming, and this is now the top of what HDZ is doing, this goes beyond even SDP's principles, because SDP at least has consistency, and now you'll see where HDZ lacks consistency. In fact, there is a survey of the most popular politicians in Croatia. Last month it was Kolinda, Plenkovic and me and ok. And HRT publishes the diagram, the first gentleman is nobody, the second is Kolinda, the third is Plenkovic and then I, the four of us on the chart of HRT. But what happens after that? After that month behind and last month is the same situation still, nothing has changed, but one name, one missing image means nothing suddenly changes anyone from Kolinda, Plenkovic doesn't have me anymore, hop swallowed me HRT. How is that an accident, gentlemen of the HDZ? How very HDZ's are most popular, no one but them. Well, isn't that a farce, ladies and gentlemen, isn't that unserious? Says Pupović's ratings dropped to 3%, I ask him, Milorad, Milorad, where did you get this news, information? He says they told me from HRT. Ladies and gentlemen, 3% of people watch the journal and what HDZ is doing, instead of going from one propaganda approach to objective access to an hour-long journal, as more people will watch. Well, don't you think that's going to raise the ratings of HRT, so ratings have fallen people can't watch that. And then what happens? Then that and that HRT invites guests to comment on me. And you know what that looks like to you? It seems to you as if the host is thinking the same as the guests, and the guests are thinking the same as the host. It's like bringing three HDZs into the studio to comment on me. Is that objective? And then they say... the guests agree that it's disgusting my performance, let's say, that it's a horror, etc., the leader, of course, who doesn't question that farce at all. And watch what's going on, you know who's criticizing me? Ankica Mamic. Do you know who Ankica Mommy is? So they, as an impartial expert, bring in a woman who is related to Mamic who is on the indictee bench, a woman who worked for Mamic in Dinam, watch out now, a woman who was convicted of HBOR fraud who got 11 months in prison parole, settled, confessed to guilt and the kind of person who was PR for Cacic you bring to HRT as an impartial someone to say, analyst. Well, ladies and gentlemen, did you start bringing convicts to insult me? Who am I to bring three people from Leprechaun to speak against the SDP and now they, so what is the credibility of such people? Is that what you're wondering? Don't you think the public is stupid, that the public doesn't understand or see what's going on there? One of the few shows that worked was the one from Maya North and her last guest, i.e. One of the last guests was Pavlo Kalinic. The man told the truth about HRT. Probably a lot of you saw what he said. He said that people, people, or journalists who are not addressed on the subject, who do not know about the subject, are deliberately brought to HRT by guests who have nothing to do with the story. With a goal? To what end? So as to draw attention, to kill the time, or to fulfill the programming scheme, and that there is no content. He's doing an open show on the Executive Act. If one party in Croatia is engaged in performances, say, HDZ gentlemen, the SDP that is the party that deals in Croatia? A living wall, do you think someone from our party was invited? Well, of course not. And now what's going on? That kind of supervisory board that was and will be, we know it's not going to deal with these things. But that way, such an unserious approach to things, what's going on? The ratings are dropping, people are turning away from television, they don't want to watch TV like that anymore. They don't want to see that and that kind of program. They don't want to. This is terrible. So ask people, walk down the street, ask people what they think of the HRT program, people will tell you. Ask yourselves. And in the end, ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed to amend the HRT Act, we have proposed that it be financed directly from the budget, no longer funded through subscription. Why? Because you've been sending people a monstrous errand. You charge them hard, you peel people's skin. On behalf of public television, your HRT incasators are harassing people. The incasator comes, you don't open the door for him, you say I don't want to let you in the house, there's no right to enter your house. He writes that you have TV, he agrees, he doesn't write, which TV, or he's seen any TV. He says, he reports you, the punishment comes to you, he sends you into a misdemeanor. I wonder, will the new members of the Supervisory Board question this practice? Dahl will bring her, ladies and gentlemen. It's a shameful way, not only of which the HRT works, but of the whole state. But most of all, I was surprised, not only by the transfer of the blame for the HDZ crime to the SDP and vice versa, but by Milorad Pupovac, so he said, "This is not known who drinks, who pays there." And when it is seen, how you guide, what kind of leaders you put forth, it comes to man to kill himself. Look, the only lady in charge who's been rolling, she's lost her show. She says there's no more room for her in the programming scheme. Why? Because people loved watching her. I used to love watching the Maya North show. May the North is gone. Not because she's beautiful, although she's beautiful, she has other beautiful HRT leaders, but their shows weren't interesting to the public. It's Maya North who's touched a lot of subjects, and that's why she's been removed. As he was removed in his own time and Dennis Latin and as they were and many others will be removed. That Novokmet, he was your editor at the Open. Well, he did because he said it wasn't public television. That's what the ladies and gentlemen said. That's not what I said. So people and from their own system are forced to either shut up like Dennis Latin, to be pushed aside, like Maya North or to change the TV house they work for as Novokmet. It's your policy. Will the ladies and gentlemen, the new supervisory board, question that? Probably not. Why? Because HRT instead of being a television, which really objectively accesss things, has turned into a propaganda service, but watch out for this thought now, not only of HDZ or SDP, but of the ruling party. So, as the party changes in power, simply the HRT turns left or right. And citizens have to listen to propaganda all the time. They're doomed to propaganda. Why? Why can't I just turn on the TV and see someone other than Plenkovic? Why? Is that, like, the role of public television, building a cult of someone's personality? Well, my God, if Plenkovic deserves it, if he deserves it, if he's good at success, so you don't have to build him a cult of personalities, he'll show himself by his own parts, that he's greatness. But your forcing aggressive Plenkovic reminds you of the time when aggressive Milanović forced himself, i.e. Colindu replaced him, i.e. Kolinda replaced Ivo Josipovic, etc. In other words, the supervisory boards change, the directors change, and politics remains the same, the servant and... in the service of the strongest party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wish the ladies and gentlemen would change that, I wish there was room for everything on HRT. So, when the show's open, it's not just called members of HDZ and SDP. There, that's mine, that's on me. And if you want, keep it going the way you lead, okay. Keep going, I'm the only one who's sorry about the citizens who have to pay for it. I'm only sorry, because it would be fair if you control that television, if you decide on its key programme, and that's this political, informative, if you run it as your property, then it would be fair for you to finance it and not build it. Then tell us HDZ's got, I don't know what, 200 grand we'll finance it and we'll release our propaganda. Okay. Then I, I think I don't mind if you have your own channel or if the HDZ just takes a concession for some television or radio frequency and let Plenkovic talk there 0 to 24 and okay. But I'm saying, it's not right for citizens to pay for that, and that's why we've proposed, among other things, that we cancel the TV subscription by amending the HRT Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65245	I thank my colleague Pernar. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65246	Thank you very much. My colleague Pernar had to react and correct some of the allegations that you gave here quite lightly or lightly, equated the SDPs with HDZ. It's when a man analyzes and sees it's not like that. So this is the situation that's never happened before. I can tell you that in the way Goran Radman came to be Director of Television, there was no warrant, no decision within the SDP. They would even wonder how it all happened to happen in some situations in the end, but then. On the contrary. So if someone objected to him, the SDP might object that when he consumed power in some of these situations, he did not consume enough power in state institutions, and the HDZ is doing it to the last atom if you understand me. To the last particle. So when they consume power, it's very difficult to bypass any director of television. It's still a high function. It's hard to get around the one on TV who's working on the port. There's such a huge difference, there's a huge difference between HDZ and SDP. I can tell you about it for hours because I know how it worked. Radman was neither Milanovic nor the government. There was a choice at that time for those who responded to the competition decided on it by the Supervisory Board. He was also a Novokmet candidate at the time. If I could have made my own decision, I'd have chosen before him rather than Radman. So here I am asking you to try to understand. I know this is effective in equating the SDPs and HDZ, but even a superficial review shows that it's not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65247	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. Comrade Pernar, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65248	Thank you. Comrade Maras, what can I tell you? You say we didn't choose Radman. He was elected by the Supervisory Board. And who appointed members of the Supervisory Board? Who? Did I name them? Could the HDZ have named them? Did Bozo Petrov name them or Milorad Pupovac? Did Cresso Whiteman name them? No, ladies and gentlemen, you of the SDP have appointed members of the Supervisory Board, and you have thus appointed the Director himself. And you say you can't even the SDPs with HDZ. Well, he can't because you've been worse. The HDZ also allowed confrontations before the parliamentary elections in Franjo Tudjman's day. The Radman, or the Supervisory Board you appointed, did not consider it necessary to have a public meeting before the election of the general parliamentary ones. Is that normal for you? The HDZ are laughing at you, Mr. Maras. They laugh at you and laugh at you because you have shown that you are accusing HDZ, and as you have seen in this case the basic principle means suma suma sumarum the most important thing of parliamentary elections if something HRT should do in its information program, so it is at least one confrontation. You weren't able to do that. If Radman wasn't your choice, which I believe you may have, one of you, you should have influenced that shift when you saw what policy was going on. But unfortunately, you're not. Why? Because he bombed citizens with SDP successes like we are now some other director or, as one says from that movie, a new deliverer is bombarding us with HDZ successes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65249	I thank my colleague Pernar. I would ask you and appeal in a statement not to disrespect fellow representatives and political parties in the Croatian Parliament and to stick to some general rules of conduct in this House. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65250	Thank you very much. My colleague Pernar told a lie, so it's an injury in 238, which is that the SDPs decided on who would be involved in some debate. So it is simply not true, nor has the SDP ever had the ambition to decide who will come to the debate, nor has he ever interfered with the Croatian Radio Television programme decisions. And if I were to make my own decisions, I'd let it all go to debate. Well, I don't have a problem with the debate. I'm having a great debate. So don't tell the truth. So the SDP didn't decide or will ever decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65251	I thank my colleague Maras. I would ask you not to abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, because as far as I know, and there's little I know about the Rules of Procedure, there's no time in Article 238 that's been prescribed by our parliamentary deputies. And you've said them a few times, so nothing to anyone. So please do not continue to abuse the institution of the Rules of Procedure because of the untruths spoken by our MPs and MPs. Here you go, colleague Pernar. I hope you don't do anything like that either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65252	Dear Chairman, since Mr. Maras had a chance to hurt, I'm asking the same thing to allow me to do 238. He said one thing, let's not tell the truth, but half the truth. He said the SDP was not elected by the director, but the whole truth is that he chose members of the Supervisory Board who elected that director. In other words, he acts as if there is no relationship between the doll and the manipulator, when there is no relationship of superiors. It is clear that at that time Radman was subordinated to the will of the SDP because the SDPs were elected by the Supervisory Board and through it itself. So if he hadn't, or if the SDP had objected to his policy, the SDP would have instruments to replace him. But just because he hasn't replaced him, it's said that silence is a sign of acceptance, and that's what you've shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65253	I thank my colleague Pernar. It's also the same answer as your colleagues, Marasu. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65254	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with you that Croatian television should be a public service, objectively report events, and always hear from each other or give the opportunity for both sides to express their view of a certain event. Well, here's what I suggest. They're gonna make a stand between you and Mr. Maras and we're gonna find out the truth. However, what bothers us from HSS, which is that I was here a year ago when we talked about the HRT Law saying that Croatian Radio Television is not doing well, that its ratings is falling because there are still areas in the Republic of Croatia not so far from here 150 km in Slavonia on the slopes of Psunja, Dilja and Papuka, Požeško Gora who can't watch Croatian radio and therefore do not watch Croatian radio because they can't watch and then they didn't pay the subscription, and they completed them. And I asked for that to change, and I hope that this new administration and those supervisory board will do something to change that. But here's more than a year since this was in October's debate last year. Nothing's changed yet. And I also pointed out the problem of bad business and the abolition of businesses, the correspondence of Croatian radiotelevision in Novi Gradiška, Slavonski Brod, Slatini, Virovitica and a number of other places and people do not watch Croatian radiotelevision because there are no contributions from these parts, and should be heard for the opinion of that warlord and cattleman from Slatina, from Virovitica, from Novi Gradiška and craftsmen, and entrepreneurs and ordinary man. There are no contributions from these parts because there is no correspondence. And that's why people are protesting against this kind of business policy of Croatian broadcasting and we're asking it to change. And they didn't just erase you from popularity, they also deleted HSS because we're party five by popularity, now it's that it's still small and we want to be more, but now it's being published 4, and before it's always published 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65255	I thank my colleague Vlaovic. My colleague Pernar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65256	Do you know who you were just telling? Unfortunately, no one, because in these moments, while you guys were replicating my HRTs, it shut down Parliament's transmission. For what? Why often when I speak HRT interrupts transmission and starts to transmit something else? Isn't that also an act of censorship? Well, isn't that sad? I'm trying to be correct with you. You used to tell the HDZ gentlemen to strangle you as you said what term, some as you called it. Am I harassing you with long stories now? No, I don't. I totally cut my word for it, and that's too much for you, and you have to cut it. Well, please, gentlemen of the HRT, so don't be miserable, give a little at least when you're being discussed, so don't discuss yourself with HTV 4. Give it back so the citizens can hear it. And I thank you Mr. Vlaovic for his comment or for his replica. Yeah, you know why these stories are about what you were saying and those things from Brod-Posavina County of those people that are being completed because of the subscription, and they're not interested. They want to know where Plenkovic was. So there's a cult of one person's personality and this cult of personality building just doesn't have the space and time for some peasant who has some problem or wants to say something, etc. And this is funny how you said that as a 5th party or 4th party, the 5th party, as you're being moved from the polls. And what am I supposed to say? What can I say? They put me in next month, and nothing changes. So can it be more comical than that, ladies and gentlemen? Says the man sends a photo. I published it. She's got three thousand likes. I'll show you. Right now... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65257	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65258	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pernar, you're right. Maya North lost her show. Novokmet is no longer on Croatian TV. Goran Rotim ran a "public matter" one excellent show that is no longer on Croatian television. When it was here in the Assembly, it was not a special topic on Croatian television that addressed the problem of over 100,000 citizens. There's no open case on the trial case. There's no open on illegal interest. It's only about some ceremonial stuff, philosophies, sensations. And do you know who he is today, whose dispatch today was at 12.10 from the Crematorium? Have you heard of Franjo Feldi? Franjo Feldi is a top Croatian Army officer who was part of the Homeland War, who was the first commander of the Ban Josip Jelačić war school, which is considered one of the best strategics during the Homeland War. I haven't heard a word about this man on Croatian television. Probably because he was modest and self-absorbed because he wasn't a sensationalist, because he wasn't doing a sensation around his life, while some sensations were being talked about for days. It is regrettable that people who have dedicated their lives to the bottom of their soul, but have not done any sensation, pay special attention, while sensations are always given enormous attention. Philosophy is always given a great deal of attention, a philosophy about abstractions, about real people, about real events is not talked about, and real events are the Law on margins, real events are problems with Swiss people, which will soon be resolved in courts, rights, the thing is this man and his life we very little know about. Otherwise, he was also a painter. Here, you probably haven't heard of this Franjo Feldi. You're not. Here, it's about Croatian television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65259	I thank my colleague Alexic. My colleague Pernar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65260	Comrade Alexic, you said not to report these cases, which are being reported, i.e. which you mentioned. But you know what's being reported on HRT? Here, ladies and gentlemen, I remember the story, now it's currently Dickan Radeljak and Vlatka Pokos. Serious Show Open, topic of their relationship. Is that something of public interest to the political show? Is this something that affects the lives of 99.999% of citizens? No, I don't. I'm afraid not. And the topics that fellow Alexic and we are talking about, they concern most citizens, but there are no such topics on HRT. And you know what else is the most bizarre? That's what Dikan told me, not only did they do the show about his relationship with Vladka, but they do that show without him. He says they didn't call me at all. If I hadn't gone to HRT alone, I wouldn't have had the chance to participate. It's an unprofessional way for HRT to normally do shows. So it's a show, say, I'm a cartoon, they're commenting on me. How? Of course, without me. Brings in 3 on-call spit, one former HDZ member who was also a culture minister, the other is Ankica Mamic, who is legally convicted. And you with people like that, you defile the political opposition. Why can't we once hear from someone who's an analyst on HRT who would say a bad word about your party president, let's just say, Andrew Plenkovic, or your party, that's not there. And when Pernar needs to spit, point all your strength and all your hard work. Well, it's a farce, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65261	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. ... Mr. Pernaru, when you get your word, then speak and do your job. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDS Representatives Club, HSSLS, HDSSB, a respected fellow professor, Goran Dodig. Here you go. ... Please, colleague Glasnović, dear colleague Goran Dodig has his word. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65262	... I presented information on the spying of the Croatian Army... [[Specially enabled.]] Well done, Mr. Feldy, General. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So listen to my head, clean... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65263	Kola Glasnović, colleague Glasnović I'm asking you nicely. ... [[/Invader Glasnović: Yes?]] You're using the word... [[Invadica Glasnović: Speaker, not understood.]] You're misusing a word you didn't get. ... [[Intruder Pernar not enabled.]] If you'd picked up a colleague from the Parliament Service, and I would have noticed you, as I've noticed everyone else. ... [[Glasnović is not on.]] So please stay away from such behaviors and let Professor Dodig continue the debates. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. [[Well, I'm here like a bear at weddings then.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65264	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is interesting today that this debate in which mutual parliamentary parties have been accused, parliamentary representatives, each other, and the topic is HRT and that 3 points of the agenda are, three, four points of the agenda are about Croatia's radio television. The truth is, there was a speech today, about the board of directors. However, Croatia's broadcasting and individual reflection on Croatian broadcasters in the state in which the television is located, I think it is insufficient. My colleague Pernar is, I don't know who's reporting him, I don't know that, that's interrupted transmission, but my country is if he's interrupted and it would be good to have those transmissions.../The speaker doesn't understand./... this one cancels. Because I think there would be more responsibility, more serious debates and more serious approaches to this problem. I will say a few sentences, regardless of what the subject is, because I think that Croatia is a broadcasting, an institution that does not deserve, but deserves to be spoken of that way. To talk about television in general and its impact on society as a whole. Well, for one thing, we think that Croatia is a television medium, which informs us. So, it brings information, then we have to ask ourselves, how do this information work on us, how do they act on the general political state, on individual and collective consciousness, how do they act on society as a whole? We have to ask ourselves, are the information we hear from Croatian Radio, Croatian Radio and Television in some way being placed in the function of social manipulation. And are we aware of these facts? Maybe that's not always the intention? But I warn you that this is happening because simply this information is said by people who are prone to error, who are ideological like everyone else, does not mean that someone else would be better. But in any case, we need to talk about it seriously. Since the Croatian Parliament is in a certain way responsible for not only business, but for the overall activities of Croatian television through decisions made regarding Croatian television, I think that the Croatian Parliament is quite responsible for such a situation. How does Croatian TV affect individual memory? I must warn you that regardless of the ratings of Croatian television, it is an extremely important institution in this sense and that after family, school and in recent times of cell phones and similar smartphones, portals, television plays an unimaginably important role. The information we hear from Croatian broadcasters definitely form our individual consciousness in both political and social and value systems. That is why any decision on Croatian television, which is made in this House, is extremely important in this case. I said manipulation. I'll tell you just one detail from the beginning of the 1990s when the village of Celije was burned that some television houses in the world, that does not naturally refer to Croatian television, showed this village as a village burned down by Croats. It was a Croatian village. It's been on TV for a long time. The one who once saw that picture through CNN or BBC has formed awareness of what the Croats are like. We forget these facts, and it is more important to us whether they mentioned us on television or not and in what context they mentioned us. We ask that on television which is public good, which is extremely important in this sense in which he speaks the truth regardless of how selectively and in certain situations it can be interpreted in a certain way. But it's important to be true. It's an initial thesis. It's the initial position we have to start with. Another thing about collective memory and collective consciousness. When we... TV makes it uninterested, when it offers us values that don't mean anything, when it offers us selfishness through the content it brings, then we get a collectively selfish society, we get what we have today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third dimension that seems to me through this information is the archival structure that television has. Archive construction. Today I was accidentally given a message where Croatian TV journalists who designed the project Pride of Homeland warn me that they are illegally dealing from television footage from the Homeland War, that these videos are unsaved, and that these videos on the media that have been recorded lasts 30 years and if that material is not digitized, it will fail. When that material failed, the truth failed. That's what we need to talk about. Why is that happening? When the truth has failed, then we enter as a society of great problems. Television influences the interpretations of history, present and future. Today, we are all witnesses of seriously blaming the interpretations of very significant events in the recent Croatian history that have international implications, which have implications for individual fates. And we're going over it. We're talking about one or the other side today that's made a mistake about it. You see, in the United States, there's an unwritten rule not to mention officials from the last administration. In this House, it's mostly about the failures of others and we'll find them. We'll find them on our own. Through a program broadcast by Croatian television there is no promotion, culture of work, culture of honesty, culture of responsibility. In fact, we have a culture of aggression. This aggression is transmitted in this House only in a different way. This aggression is passed on to schools, only in another way. This aggression is becoming our practice all the time. This aggression brings us to the fact that once upon a time there's an actor in Ban Jelačić's Square, he's been staged, he's fallen on the sidewalk, he's acting like he's seriously sick, and that selfishness that goes with aggression, you know how many people have stopped to help him? Not one. It's the society we live in and we can't hide it, we can't hide it for those facts. And for that fact, television is extremely important. I'm not saying he's conscious of it. So when you talk about the only criteria, the only criteria and they're important, they're in themselves understandable, financial-transparent business, then it's insignificant of what I'm saying. When it comes to editors, it's meaningless what they're called. It's about how they work. Another important feature of Croatian television as public television is the educational component. Let's try to see how Croatian television raises people, how it raises children, but don't forget that adults are also raised. The third extremely important role of Croatian television is an educational component, an educational component. In this context, the question arises what does it mean when a journalist says this is my show? What's my show? Can I as a doctor say this is my office? That office belongs to all citizens. I'm the only serviceman there with my knowledge of the citizens. It's got to be TV. There's no one right in the name of any freedom and no journalist's word that's my right and I'll do whatever I want. It's the wrong policy. It's up to those who tell reporters that they have the right to do it, they're wrong. I know with these statements, I'm disturbing the press and I'm still gonna be ignored, but that doesn't mean I'm gonna keep my mouth shut about it. In this context, we need to see what is happening to the Programme Council. How and how is the program selected? I'm the last person to interfere with the program, but no one else can interfere, but 5, 6 people to whom it is entrusted and no one to care for these 4 years what these people do, what movies they show, what programs they serve at 9:00 in the morning and children at 10 o'clock in the evening, if that's not gentlemen, that's the problem of this Parliament. So let's try to think about TV that way. Because it can happen that TV caress us, loves us and promotes us, that we're on TV all the time, but I assure you that the long-term damage will be for who it's being promoted, the damage will be for society, the damage will be for the state. Television is a value that is much higher than party value. I'm not going to tell her the temple, maybe it's too much, but an institution that has a significant impact on our lives, so let's not underestimate her and let's not make her aware of the story of whether she's ours or their director of Television and who's in the Programme Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65265	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dodig, for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65266	Dear Representative Dodig, you said in your presentation the next thought that meetings of the Croatian Assembly of HRT should not be transmitted. Are you aware of what they said? That the public should not know what is going on in the Croatian Parliament. You know what I'm gonna tell you, Mr. Dodig? You're one of the most common dolls, you're one hand in the air who doesn't have an opinion on anything or who's philosophizing and pretending to have an opinion on everything, but when Friday's vote comes, you're one of the most common dolls and raise your hands as they tell you from HDZ. And that's where you tell us about morality, honesty, what kind of representative you should be, etc. And that's why it bothers you, of course, that the HRTs are being transferred, because the HRTs are going to show you the way you are. They'll realize that you're only one part of a machine that raises hands and taxes on real estate, and that accountants are making life difficult, and that the VATs of the caterers are being doubled for these HRT programs whose supervisory board the HDZs are creating will raise your hand, and you know that the HRTs are getting smaller and smaller. You don't really care what the HRT program is. You don't care that no one else's diary is watching. All that matters to you is that you, as part of Friday's ruling majority, raise your hand for what your bosses, your bosses tell you, and in the meantime, you're philosophizing, singing, and you're even suggesting to me that I'm being indirect about what I'm doing. Well, look at you. Look at yourself first. That's what I told Maras. Maras, when he criticises, I tell him my colleague Maras in the party was a critic and only a critic, and all you have is criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65267	I thank my colleague Pernar. Based on Article 238 for insulting and disdaining my fellow parliamentary representative, I give you a warning. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament I would really ask you to choose the words you use in your own words. Yeah, and I'm really intolerant and especially to you, but don't abuse my tolerance and don't send negative messages and negative patterns of behavior from this High House. I beg you nicely and appeal. Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Members Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65268	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I give up, since you have responded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65269	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Marko Vučetic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65270	Although you have said a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I hold that it is necessary to say that my colleague Pernar has really hurt Article 238, not only did he say that he has made inappropriate content to another fellow MP, but he did not even notice that what he has qualified as a puppet, so he who acts according to someone else's instructions that we have seen today that this can only be applied to that representative who expects someone else to act according to his wishes. So it's about multiple, multiple injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but also the fact that the thesis of professors has been confirmed. He picks up so that sometimes in the truth it would be good if these sessions weren't passed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65271	I would like to thank my colleague, Vučetić. I think in my previous words to Mr. Pernar, I've said everything that was necessary. We have a reply to the replica, dear colleague Goran Dodig, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65272	He's a colleague of Pernar's. I could be much uglier to offend you, I won't do it. I won't do it because you have your dignity, too, and if you break it, I won't break it. I'm sorry you feel that way. I still think that some sessions should not be transferred, not transmitted because it is evident that they are bait for performances that have nothing to do with this House or with the content that is being discussed in this House. So I'm not gonna publicly embarrass you or embarrass you or say anything, but I'm gonna talk to you outside. Just don't run away.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65273	I thank my colleague Dodig for his reply. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65274	Thank you very much. Article 238, so MPs, MPs Vučetić, Jelkovac and others, so they're looking for a violation of the Rules of Procedure for the alleged insults of MP Pernar and Agent Pernar was just telling the truth, so he wasn't insulting anyone at all. Of course it's working there, you can use style figures, descriptions. But the fact is also that here in Parliament we have representatives who raise their hands like robots and that's true. And you can now, when it's called saying it's about free-thinking people but it's about half-trons. And he has a right to say it. And here I am claiming that we have half-trons here, that Mr. Dodig is among them, and there are other cases as many as you want. And therefore, do not spread any morality here because everyone sees how well you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65275	A fellow Bunjac, a stylish expression, figures of style, locks on a political scene are always welcome but do not associate it directly with any colleague or colleague because you in your club vote unisonally, and then you could talk about it, that you are also what you call dolls. So I don't think it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure by counterpart Jelkovac and colleague Mark Vučetic. We're moving on, we've got another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65276	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Bunjac has abused the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure and I think he deserves a warning and I don't think either of us should abuse the Rules of Procedure. So I think he hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65277	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac, for keeping me awake. And since you've already heard from me before that I'm extremely tolerated, so I haven't told anyone before about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure Institute, so I didn't even tell my colleague Bunjcu that, so here, but I thank you for reminding me and keeping an eye on my conscience, over my dedicated work. Thank you very much. Another violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65278	Dear Chairman, I think you insult me as an agent, 238, when you accuse me of insulting Mr. Dodig. You could say, or not you, but he himself had the right to a replica and could defend himself, he could say, it's not true that I always raise my hand as he raises HDZ and that it's completely irrelevant what I think because I will always do as I'm told by HDZ, but he didn't say it. I was really reminded of what I was telling the truth here. And if it wasn't true what I said, Mr. Dodig could have denied me without a problem. He had a chance to replicate, he in his replica, he said I wouldn't insult you. It's easy not to insult me, you can insult me if you want, but what the public is interested in is that you deny what I said about you, that you're here to listen to HDZ, and that you're just spilling some of your stories by pretending that you have an opinion and on Friday we know how you're going to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65279	I thank my colleague Pernar. I didn't insult you with a single word. Among other things, if you are not familiar with the Rules of Procedure, it is the one who keeps an eye on the respect of the Rules of Procedure and that the meetings of the Croatian Parliament take place uninterrupted with respect to certain civilizational norms and ossus and respect for the Rules of Procedure. So it's among other things my job and you colleagues, Dodig, will you later talk outside the assembly about how it's your thing. So please don't abuse the institute. That's what I'm telling you right now. We're moving on. Next replica, dear colleague Stevo Culey, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65280	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Dodig, when you mentioned the cells and I remember that Croatian forces and Croats blamed it. I'm not surprised at the first time when there was no idea who's on HRT who's who, who's working for the interests of Croatia and who's working against them. But I'm surprised that on the anniversary of the death of President Franjo Tudjman this year, that someone on Croatian television can say on the show "It happened today" that President Tudjman organized aggression on Herceg Bosnia and conducted an experiment of 200 families. And it was all influenced by someone working on TV on the Supervisory Board. So he was able to impose the subject with his influence. Why did he manage to impose the subject? You know why? Because the following journalists Tihomir Dujmovic, Egrid Runtic, Nada Landek, Helena Krmpotić, who was probably removed only because the father was a protected witness in the case of Perkovic and Mustac, were removed from Croatian television. Not to mention Mark Juric, one case just like that. And who stayed on HRT? So it was those who were in the dark times of Radmanovsia in the supervisory boards, who created accounting and supervision of finances as they fit and removed it from the bag as it was appropriate to someone, and now some MPs are pushing for some working there, to stay in the supervisory councils because of some make-up girls who have the highest coefficient on HRT and some other employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65281	I'd like to thank my colleague Culley for the replica. Answer nothing, thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65282	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Dodig, you mentioned the system of values and you mentioned that no financial business in such, less important, is less important. But I'd say that since the number of viewers is falling rapidly, and cost increases are very important financial business, but it's not the most important. The main purpose of public television and any other television is the production of programs, so we care about what kind of program is produced and how much money. And here's a little example of that. For example, educational, dramatic, children's, documentary, these are all public television obligations, unlike commercial television. And now we have a situation that the drama program practically according to the latest information, not the latest, but the 2015 report, so he didn't have the money to produce so that illustratively two shows were made for a circus of 200 thousand kuna, and on the other hand we had an external production of 30 million kunas and more and what that is. This is the best way to crash a documentary and drama programme that is one of the public TV obligations. That's why we have to ask the question, no one has anything against the outside production. However, they should be in symbiosis, not in a way that external production kills the production of HRT. That's not the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65283	I thank my colleague, Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. Hey, buddy Dodig's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65284	Often, what the speaker said is misunderstood, perhaps partly because he did not say clearly enough, and probably because of what is so famous, which is how someone who listens. It is true that in the context of the messages sent by Croatian Television and Financial Report. The financial report, according to my system of values, falls under a different plan, but that doesn't mean it doesn't matter. It's very important. The fact is that Croatia is both in information and educational education, and in organisational terms it is getting worse and worse. And in that part and the financial report is extremely important, but you must understand that we all have our own vision of a particular institution. For me, it is so important in Croatian society and in Croatian politics that no segment is equal to it in this part of which I am talking about. Production is catastrophic. What doesn't have money? It's a disaster. The Croatian TV production used to be very good, very good. Why are you doing this now? Whether for manipulative purposes, if anyone makes any money I can't say it, I don't know it. That, I would have brought myself into a very complicated situation, if I were to suspect that something was not worth it. I don't want to accuse anyone or tell anyone that they're doing it on purpose. I just want to warn you that the situation is not good and that the Croatian Parliament, as the institution responsible for that television, has the right to talk about it and has the right to ask these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65285	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dodig. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65286	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Dodig, I'd like to warn you of one contradiction in your statement. In fact, you ranged from praising the role of Croatian television during the Homeland War where it was practically the only voice that provided the truth about the Republic of Croatia, about the Homeland War, about the events, about the aggression on us until you now stood at the point that the meetings of the Croatian Parliament should not be transmitted. And even then, with great expectation and, of course, the desire to make such a decision, we expected the House's decisions to declare independence, to eventually form this state, and today should we be that attitude to deny information to our people. I mean people certainly in this time that's open media need to have full information about who in this House today or yesterday was, or who was, who was saying, who might have been proactive, who was actually someone who had demagogued in all this work, but I think our people have the right to information and they need to follow and those who want to follow, we also expect it to be followed by the media and that it is true. It's true the way it is, we'd all like it to be better, to make proposals more ideal, to be us as an opposition and then to be supportive so that someone would tell us that we're absolutely constructive, that we're not destructive. But unfortunately, that's not the way this world is, in this world we should simply be involved and our citizens will then evaluate the overallity of this action and we should be responsible for each other. So I am, however, that this Parliament, the assembly sessions, is being monitored by television and that people decide how it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65287	I thank my colleague Panenic. Hey, buddy Dodig's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65288	Comrade Panenich, clarification. So I said that some sessions would be better not to be transmitted because some sessions are throwing such a light at this Assembly, what is happening in the Assembly to spread collective pessimism because of incompetence, because of insult, because of particular interests, as if we are forgetting the main objective of this House. So in that context. It's good to carry on, to understand each other. Some sessions don't mean any transfer of Parliament. But I hope you'll agree with me that there were times here when it would be better if people didn't see how we worked. Well, it's no accident that this House has a whole lot of negative grades or very bad grades. If this institution like Parliament has negative grades in society, if that's true and I believe it is, then we better get together, reset ourselves, start acting differently without losing the edge of criticism. But it can't happen that this House comes dressed as it comes, can't happen to insult people, can't happen to call people and rule in the Parliament practically terror. Sometimes, occasionally. Such sessions would be better not to be transmitted because it has a very negative effect on the general social climate, in that sense I have spoken and it is necessary for the public to be familiar, it has no doubt, I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65289	I thank my colleague Dodig for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65290	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Dodig, I give up that replica I've prepared and which I've come to think of because I'm forced to make some claims now because it seems to me that your exposure has caused a lot of misunderstandings, so now I'm just checking to see if I understand you correctly. So, when you were discussing HRT, you were discussing the media, and every medium has some kind of telelogy towards a particular purpose. This purpose is always more valuable than things themselves, and I realized that you advocate that the purpose of the media and the HRT is to promote truth, assertivity and society of quality that will rest on inclusiveness. A person's individual consciousness belongs to him, and his consciousness is intellectual, or it's directed toward an object. When it comes to media, we have a public consciousness and now we have objects that are in public consciousness from religious to political, from scientific to social and just so that we can preserve this processivity of public consciousness and that we can set constant new goals, we must not give up requests for inclusiveness. And out of public awareness, public space should disappear all of those contents or should be critically evaluated as undesirable in the construction of a society that rests on excluding others, slander instead of speech and disintegration instead of integration. I really don't know if this is about what I've seen as the fundamental intensity of your exposure, which is why there's been a misunderstanding and reduction of your entire speech on whether the public service will be in the function of walking and walking our political ego. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65291	Well, I think you got it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65292	I'd like to thank my colleague, Dodig, only to beg that I give my word first. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65293	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Dodig, you spoke of public service, what it has, how it should play some kind of educational role and how it should develop some kind of spirit of solidarity and all of the positive qualities we need in society. And now you might have touched what you were saying about transferring the sessions themselves. It's not so much trouble for me what's being said here, it's much more problematic for me what's going on here somewhere hidden. I think the bad attitude about the Croatian Parliament is that citizens have because of the way this majority is made up, it's much more terrible than any insult that can be heard here. Because those tensions that happen sometimes happen because of the situation in society. Even our citizens often react bitterly to those of us sitting here. You were talking about how some man was in the square, no one wanted to help him. Well, we had one contribution to an even commercial television show showing the unhappiness of scenes of our citizens living in difficult conditions, 15 MPs looked at it, no one asked how to help these people except one representative sitting here. That's how this solidarity develops. And it's not that important to tell some demagogue story about some kind of virtue, it's what's done that matters. Doesn't matter if someone insulted someone, but what does it matter what he does when he's in a position, what moves he makes? Is he prone to corruption? These are real questions that need to be questioned by both public service and information program of HRT, which does not, but a cult of personality. And it builds one situation, a stability in which nothing can be questioned, where every criticism, is some kind of destruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65294	I'd like to thank my colleague Grmo, the answer, my colleague Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65295	This is what you were talking about as a demagogue. I'm sorry if it's demagogy. It's not a question of whether or not the viewers are going to watch this television, it seems to have caused the most dissatisfaction and almost panic. The question is how do you feel the spoken word? The spoken word, the other day you mentioned it in one context to take a bullet. The spoken word is worse than a bullet for some people. Let me know very well, because I have been dealing with this for 35 years in this House, where it should be extremely important how words are used in what context and how they are referred to others are extremely important. And we think it's irrelevant that the insult is irrelevant. The insult is very important. There's nothing more important. That's an assumption for everything else to solve. Everything else to solve. I want to encourage you in every speech I make, on the road, which I think you're good at. But I can't encourage you to find something bad, to offend you then, to humiliate you and to expect you to break it up well later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65296	I thank my colleague, Dodig, for your reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Here you go, buddy Bull. There isn't. As far as I know, you lost the right to speak on this subject because you were not present, based on Article 233. I've noticed you, but unfortunately the Rules of Procedure is stronger than my goodwill, although I would gladly let you speak. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65297	Dear Vice President, thank you. I'm going to try to get back to the metric, just to remember a little bit what we're talking about today. Point of the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the HRT Supervisory Board but I see that colleagues have already been involved in the debate and for the following 4 points. It is a report on the operation of HRT, for 2014 and 2015. and that actually the debate would be identical, I suppose, and the next point, i.e. 7 and 8 reports on the work of the HRT programme council. So I'm going to keep going in the same tone, and we're going to do a little bit about the supervisory board, so, but I'm going to connect to these points, like the others, and we're going to do it again, at the next points, I'm sure. TV is a public service, we all agreed on it. But here I saw, one opposition actually started around the board of supervisors and inability, that the opposition had its own representative on the board of supervisors. This situation reminds me of the situation, here it is recently, we actually had a situation yesterday, a colleague of Hrelja managed to push through, one of his own laws, because he didn't stubbornly. He said I'd back it up. I'll vote for the budget, let my law pass. The same was done by a colleague of the Scibols, recently also. That's a good thing for me. We had a colleague, Alexic, who tried to tell the truth, so as I'm going to be the law, and I wouldn't support it, so the law didn't pass. We also have a situation here, it was nice to tell you, Mr. Bacic explained nicely, which is why this person cannot be accepted. You insisted, because you preferred spite, than the fact that you had your own representative on the board of directors. If you cared about having it, then you'd agree to the terms, in this case HDZ, that you couldn't choose persons who had been replaced because of irregularities in HRT business. With the fact that I have to say what's very important here, we even had, if I'm not mistaken, the verdicts, or four times, were intervened by the Trade Court, even the Administrative Court later. So it's a matter of irregularities in HRT business. But here, I'd still try to talk to the public, though, which is why it's a very big problem for the SDP, because here I see a very big, one, as I would say, I see that the SDP is terribly missing Goran Radman, headed by HRT. And for all those who forget or don't know, I should still read who Goran Radman was. Goran Radman was president of the Socialist Defence Alliance of Yugoslavia. He was the Director-General of Television Zagreb. And normally later, we all know, head director of HRT. Here, I'm sorry that there are no colleagues of Glasnović, he often talks about illustrations, but this is actually incomprehensible. For one man who was positioned in communism, in socialism, in a regime that was undemocratic, headed by television, which was not a public service, which was exclusively for the purpose of promoting ideas, the Communist party of Yugoslavia, or the Communist party of Croatia, that the same person in democracy put the same Croatian party, in this case the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, at the head of the national television house. It's incomprehensible. And it's actually hard for me, I even have to say, that even the opposition was a little bit, she couldn't articulate, these things in the right way, because if there was something that shouldn't have been done, it shouldn't have been done. So someone who was set up in a non-democratic regime, a totalitarian regime, for the head of the national television station to happen in the 21st century. It's very important and everybody knows. And when we talk a little bit, we're talking a little bit about the HRT council program we'll do it again and probably later, someone mentioned it, mentioning someone to the journalist Maya North, Croatia live, if I'm not cheating on the show, so there's no more show. Interestingly, only this liberal left regrets Maya North, while I would dare say one major part of Croatia does not regret Maya North's show. She also had light moments to understand, but she had moments that were very, very secularly colored, and therefore I personally, and many others do not complain that these shows are not there. But I have to say here, so there's no Seven Nights. And the Grga's probably sad that there's no Seven Nights, there's no picture of the painting, and there's no other shows, so what then. And no one mentions that there is no Tihomir Dujmovic show that also disappeared from the HRT programme. That's not a problem, and if I'm not mistaken, someone's gonna fix me was rated the most visible, best show, one of the best shows, so that's not the problem. The problem is Maya North, and Tihomir Dujmovic is not the problem. Also, what is very important, I have not heard anyone speak here television must be for the purposes of Croatian people, all citizens of Croatia a normal thing. But that as one, I see that it should be like a medium that will convey values that are universal, and I simply don't see it on HRT, or I don't understand that in some times when the family can also gather in front of television, for example on Friday or Saturday night, that movie that is suitable for watching at 8 or 9 o'clock in the evening has the mark of 12 or 15, or that those films are not recommended for children. What kind of program is that? Now that's something that's incomprehensible that television as a public service has content, such content in that term. I've already mentioned it, and I'll repeat it this time, maybe later. Here it is in recent times we have shows called concrete sleepers. An interesting show where Croatian television pays its journalists to tour the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and to record from Macedonia, from Skopje to Kolasin, to Konjica some concrete buildings and to serve us as one, as cultural news, I would say. On the contrary, I must also comment that in information shows, and I would dare to say by those prime terms that other Dnevnik or third we have news from the neighborhood. When I say the neighborhood, I don't think anyone is spreading news from Hungary, for example, or from Italy that are our neighboring countries, but from that neighborhood in the east. So we regularly know what is going on in Belgrade, with Sarajevo there is even one compromise because BiH is also a state where the Croatian people are constitutional, but if not every Dnevnik, then each other we have a detailed report on the political situation and developments in Belgrade, and in Hungary what Orban does we have no idea and Hungary is a country that is also neighbouring. We have a greater border with her than we have with Serbia, specifically. You'd be here, just a little bit more off topic. I'd like to say hello to Mr. Mader who's asking us to work in the winter today. I'm glad you're back in Parliament, so here's the whole stop in front of the Parliament, insist on your demand that there be no assembly break. In your example, show that it was not populism, as well as those 10,000 kunas that fellow MOST colleagues required, for example, in their own time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65298	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. I remind you and all your colleagues and colleagues that we are currently discussing the item on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board. So once again to remind you, so that as much as you stick to the subject even though you can put everything in context of the topic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Steve Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65299	Your Honor, Vice President. In one part, you well detected the problem when you mentioned one of the leaders of Croatian Radio Television, which we inherited from the past system, and he was educated in this past system, which was hostile to our Homeland, and says this: "The media in peace are what the military in war is, they can act on one population in the same way and possibly in a worse way and the result is this bad action." And says one lesson to the one who should not solve this problem, because he is still in that system. How will one who has to solve such a problem solve the problem at the benefit of Croatia if he is still in the system. Who are these people who are still working today in the system, in this imposed on us by the media war. These are people who are educated in the former Yugoslavia, they continue to work. Many have changed their names and last names even though they don't perform in Hollywood and I don't know where else. Why did they do that? So they can hide and move on in secret. How can we watch Croatian television where one show host says that there was a civil war in Croatia, and we all know that in Croatia it was not a civil war, but that it was an open aggression of the Serbian Chetnik army. This same day works and spits its poison on the Croatian people. Why is he doing this? Well, because he's dressed for it. He's the one we inherited from that system. They can hide, but there are indications that we can identify them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65300	Thank you, colleague Culey. My colleague Zekanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65301	Dear colleague Culey, we agree on everything. I have to say here, again, actually that Goran Radman is the main problem why we have this debate, why some can't regret it. And I'd like to mention another example here, I'd like to mention to you how Croatian Radio Television has done in a very bad way. I'd dare say the worst way possible. The moment we had our first and only referendum in Croatia, which prompted citizens who collected 750,000 signatures on Croatian streets, and this is a referendum on marriage. And at that time, the HRT, although the will of the citizens could have been felt that two thirds and more citizens would have voted for, in a very biased way, I would have dared to say at that time on HRT 2013 there were almost no journalists who were for the definition that marriage was a community of men and women but exclusively against. And that was so explicit and nobody ever answered for it. In Dnevnik, the HRT shock journal at the beginning and eventually ended up calling on citizens to vote against and it is unacceptable because television as we all said repeatedly is a public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65302	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65303	Thank you. My colleague Zekanovic, I must say that I was not overly thrilled with the way Goran Radman led the HRT. But as far as his résumé you've read, you've missed another function, it seems to me he was the chairman of Microsoft's management for Croatia. So you put Bill Gates in the context of communist rule. But I'll read you another résumé in a minute and a half so you'll be very careful when you talk about résumés. It means '42. A member of the KPJ, since '42. For years, the head of an illegal Partisan printery. Since '43. year of deputy commissioner of the second Zagorje Partisan squad, since '44. Deputy Commissioner of the Radic Brothers, Commissioner of 32 Divisions and Chief of Staff of the 10th Corps. Then the head of the second organisational department of the Central Staff Department of the Ministry of Defence of Yugoslavia. After that, the president of the Yugoslav Sports Society Partizan and the director of the Institute for the History of the Workers' Movement. As far as that goes, so very cautiously about reading your résumés, because according to your criteria, neither Dr. Franjo Tudjman could never be, behave any duty in the Republic of Croatia, yet a little, yet a little more cautious. And as for the rest of your views on this subject, I will, I suggest you refer to the amendment of the Law on HRT that it be called Croatia H Croatia, Ra Radio, S Party and T Television. They'd have their own TV with a shortcut to HRAST. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65304	I thank my colleague Bauku for this replica. It's nice to hear that the SDP is also calling for Tudjman. Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65305	Comrade Bauk, I must always compliment you on your wit and honor. But I really didn't read Mr. Radman's resume, so there's that '84. he wore a staff in Belgrade and was head of the central committee in Zagreb, etc. And there are other interesting things. But there is one here when you spoke of the late President Tudjman, so, he was, so also a Partizan soldier and a Partizan general, right, that's right. And I think that here we have a consensus that Croatia has been put on anti-fascism and no one will dispute that. However, what you and I disagree on is what followed. And then Radman and his crew put Tudjman in prison in '71. Because he was a Croatian patriot. And there's that difference now. And that's what you're constantly denying. So no one's talking about the Partisans who fought also for Croatia we live in today, but we're talking about communism where Radman was a high-ranking and communist official, and I'm going to repeat the head of television in communism, and he and his click, our President Tudjman in '71. A year put in jail for patriotism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65306	I thank my colleague Zekanovic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65307	Dear colleague Zekanovic, I don't want to talk about that click, I've had the last weeks of work with that click. By clicking on which she created this ruling majority known as her co-workers, who closed and ratted out those years, I won't talk about her. I will ask you, I gave and one addressed to the amendment procedure in which I ask that instead, the lady who is a member of the HNS and was a councilwoman in the City Assembly of Zagreb and was proposed for the HRT Supervisory Board to be named Anja Šovagović Despot instead, meaning a person with experience and in the media, who proved to be a responsible member of the HRT Supervisory Board. So here I am asking you, will you support the meaning of Mrs. Šovagović Despot or will you support this member of the HNS that was in the Zagreb Assembly?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65308	I would like to thank my colleague Grumo, colleague Zekanovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65309	You won't have to wait long, tomorrow will be a vote, so you'll be able to see how I vote on that amendment. But I'm sorry, you've had one fantastic opportunity, you and your colleagues. You were up until a few months ago in power. And you could have used that opportunity just to have your candidate, if that's Mrs. Despot, who I don't think is a bad idea to get along, though, you could've pushed her to be in front of the MOST on the board of directors, you missed that opportunity. And now I have to admit a little bit that I don't understand, we're all, when we're in politics we want to be in power and you're, in fact, wrong, driven you out of power, so you actually have, you have the right to be dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65310	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. On political relations, the political coalitions of colleagues decide for themselves so you don't have to remind yourself of that. But, well, here's your colleague, Grumo, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65311	Comrade Zekanovic, so we simply couldn't be in the ruling majority in which the colleague draws the strings. So he and I can't be in the ruling, same ruling majority. So we've endured too much, so we've endured too much, so that's too long, that you and the chairman are able to be in such a position, with colleagues in such a ruling majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65312	My colleague Grumo, you have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and, for such demeaning, I give you notice on the basis of Article 239 and, in the future, when you are using the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, you must initially call on which article has been broken. Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Zekanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65313	Dear Vice President, in violation of Rules of Procedure 238, a colleague has demeaned both you and me, so that was evident. I've got to defend myself here, or I've got to say one thing. The MOST would still be in the coalition if the prime minister hadn't driven them out of the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65314	Mr. Zekanovic, I've already responded to Mr. Grumoja, and I don't think your breach of the Rules of Procedure was necessary, but good. Everyone has a right to their place under the sun. Next replica, dear fellow Stazic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65315	Here, even though my colleague Bauk took the subject from me for a replica, I will tell my colleague Zekanovic that at least two people are fortunately dead before you became a representative because they would have a bad time. Considering what you said here about Radman. This is Mr. Ivan Šibl who, in socialism, has been director of Radiotelevision Zagreb for many years, and this is what his colleague Bauk said, this is Franjo Tudjman, who was director of the Institute for the History of the Workers' Movement. You couldn't ever forgive them, not for one or the other, here's the luck of the unseen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65316	Thank you, fellow Stazic. My colleague Zekanovic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65317	We're a little off topic here, but I'm going to repeat what I told my colleague, Bauku, I made myself quite clear. General Tudjman later President Tudjman, historian Tudjman, fought for the freedom of the Croatian state and later fought for the independence of the Croatian state. He was a declared patriot and everything he might have been like a little bit of a career stain because he might have been a member of a party at some point, at some point, he certainly did, so he made up for himself when he was incarcerated by those you're defending right now. Remember, so he was imprisoned, a Croatian patriot in the 1970s because he wanted this country to be independent. And you defend those who have imprisoned you, well done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65318	I would like to thank my colleague Zekanovic, next replicator Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65319	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Zekanovic, I am certainly not very happy with HRT for the past 25 years because HRT should tell all the truth about the Homeland War and all that has been done so far, not to say that it should take care of what shows it puts on HRT, how their leaders lead that show, that people who run HRT and Croatian leaders know how to say here, it's civil war, so it's a question that's still Croatian television, that was the civil war of the '90s, but when Arsen Bauk says it's political, party television, I would just tell him that nothing has changed since the former Yugoslavia,... party colleagues... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise he was with them together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it takes time and I hope that there will come a time when the truth of HRT will talk about the truth and provide programmes to the Croatian people, those who need to, even if we need to, even if we have to pay for MAX TV to watch Croatian sports, Croatian games. So our people have to pay MAX TV to get to the Croatian football league so they can watch. I think that such contracts should never have been made by HRT, it had to have one channel for sport at least Croatian, for Croatian people to watch their sport in their country for free. However, here are the gaps without talking about the directors who were, who still don't feel Croatia as their own today. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65320	I would like to thank my colleague Misic, my colleague Zekanovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65321	Well, I wouldn't even give up this part of the HRT debate if it wasn't good. I think HRT is still doing a good job, that it's a service that provides us with a lot of information, a great documentary program, but I'm glad we've seen a lot of gaps, you've seen one failure that bothers everyone or at least most. I've noticed a failure, I've just pointed out that in some prime time, movies that aren't suitable for children are being served, but that's why we're here to comment, I believe that this debate is still being watched by someone even though my colleague, Dodig, said that it would be better if the session wasn't on TV, I disagree with that, I agree with my colleague Pernar, it's better if he wanted to watch the RTL cube or I don't know the Cartoon Network, we have that freedom to choose what we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65322	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. The next replica is a respected colleague, Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Zekanovic, you were talking about the shifts of some journalists on HTV, so you mentioned Maya North, so you talked about her worldview, and I also think that journalists on their shows and estimates when they're on public television should not be light-colored. Of course, each of us has its own light in its four walls, but what's interesting is that no one mentioned the shift of a journalist who was otherwise critical in his columns towards the Most, which is Tihomir Dujmovic who often MOST criticized and who flew out of HTV when he began to speak positively about the Most Archive Act. So, at the moment he pointed out that positive thing to MOST, he jumped off HTV, he's a beacon close to you, so here's interesting that you didn't mention it in your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65324	Thank you. My colleague Zekanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65325	Dear colleague of Sladolev, first of all, mayu North. I said she also had great shows, it's a journalist with great experience, but in some shows she saw her attitude but too prominent and I think she's gone too far. It's my opinion that I believe many citizens share. As for Tihomir Dujmovic, I mentioned him, I don't know, you didn't hear him, I mentioned that it was just like some kind of May North position, that he also left HTV and that no one mentioned or raised the storm that had gone missing. I liked that show, I didn't notice that he was advocating any political option, I didn't see it was against MOST, or that it was for MOST, I really think, my opinion that it was objective, at least the part that I was watching, I'm sorry that it wasn't there, and I believe he's going to get the politics of him or someone of his caliber to have some kind of show on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65326	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65327	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague Zekanovic, here you are today educationally in the mood, giving us lectures all day long, so here you have taught us here today how if we are stubborn that we can't get through anything, if we're alike, and we don't spite each other and we can push through some of our little things for the last time in the store. You're telling us here about people who were at times of communism in some kind of function, and you, as far as I can tell by the date of birth, were wearing a pioneer hat and a scarf, right? Unfortunately, Tito died so you couldn't wear a staff and meet the staff, but you'd probably just like everyone else waiting for the staff and wearing the batons, right? Today you've educated us on oak species, you've told us nice that we have four species of oak, but you've advocated the fifth species, unfortunately these extinctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65328	Thank you very much, colleague Lenart. My colleague Zekanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65329	This is good, good job, good job. My colleague Bauk is infected with humor, but you're not Bauk to his knees, and he's slowly needed more time. Where do I start? Maybe I should start with a pioneer scarf. I find these discussions funny, actually. But I'm still going to answer that argument. And every kid in my town, in my Sibenik, and I believe in most of the cities in the '80s was getting that scarf and with it came out or paraded for the day of school. And it's funny that your colleague, the comparison of the pioneer scarf and the people who were in charge of the regime that was being dungeoned, killed, imprisoned, which was a totalitarian regime, and where the entire civilised Western Europe was disgusted by that regime. And it's actually horrible for you to compare in such an infancy the pioneer scarf of children who received it by infancy. And you know why they were getting it by the inert? Because the regime was totalitarian. Because you shouldn't have turned her down. If my father or your father wanted to refuse to have his child wearing a pioneer scarf, he'd probably be in jail, wouldn't he? And as for oaks, oaks have many species. Now I could name you another seven, eight kinds of oaks, I won't, it's not a theme. And which party grows or falls, we'll see soon enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65330	I thank my colleague Zekanovic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague, Mladen Mader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65331	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since my colleague Zekanovic called me, I have to answer that although he believes it is a populist measure that the parliament does not like, we at HSS believe it is not. I ask you if you are uncomfortable with staff or cashiers working for almost 365 days and in the Croatian Parliament a month in the winter period, in the summer two months? We know it's prescribed by the Constitution since you're ruling, so give me a change to the Constitution and I really don't think it's a populist measure, and here you have that possibility so let the Constitution change because three months to be free, so I think you're uncomfortable?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65332	I thank my colleague, Madero. My colleague Zekanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65333	Dear colleague, we can later have a cup of coffee drop to talk about it, but I'll answer to the public like this. I will try to be reasoned, however, and that the Croatian public understands me. All parliaments of the world or I'll tell parliaments in Western democracy have similar breaks that aren't made up just like that, but politics is one specific job, personally I'm morning here from 9:30, now it's 5 o'clock, we were up yesterday, at least I was up to 11 less 15 in the Parliament, you after you said, you and your colleagues left the assembly and there were no 5.6 hours in the Parliament. And no one from the HSS club, five of you have been in Parliament for five hours and you dare to say that we do a little work and you tell that to me here I hear in Parliament 18 hours a day. If you colleagues and you five make a tent here in St. Mark's Square or nice in your room in the Assembly these months to prove to us that it's not a populist measure, I'm going to enroll in the HSS. But you do what you've done... Intrusion on the side, you can't hear. Of course, of course you're not going to do it because it's a simple populism but you're bad at it. That's not exactly what you're doing. Mr. Pernar is 10 times better here. Learn from the best. Watch him because he's lying to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65334	I thank my colleague Zekanovic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65335	During today’s debate, I was particularly impressed by the thought of my colleague Steve Culei. Stevo Culej said the following thought indirect How can Stankovic work on HRT? O n masked it in the story of those who claim that there was a civil war in Croatia, not aggression, etc., but actually meant Alexander Stankovic. And I would like to give him an answer why people like Alexander Stankovic can work on HRT. Because he supports the HRT supervisory board that will not replace Aleksandr Stankovic. I invite you, Mr. Culey, if you're really up for Alexander Stankovic's shift, if you are, maybe you're not, maybe you're not looking for his shift, I'm asking him to move away as editor and show manager on Sunday at 2:00. But the question is, are you looking for his shift? If you're looking for the board of supervisors who are here, please move that man under emergency, and if he doesn't move, I won't give you support. Do it. And then your opposition to Alexander Stankovic will be sincere. But if you say, it doesn't matter what Aleksandar Stankovic says and says against Croatia I will still support that director of HRT who will leave him at work, those members of the supervisory board who will leave him at work, then you will turn out to be a hypocrite and unserious in the eyes of the Croatian public. I'd also like to look back at the general, as I would say, an HRT lardy. And why is that? So because commercial channels, so you have that MAX TV, they carry the Croatian Parliament. So the content that's commercial, it has a channel on which it transmits Parliament's sessions. Croatian national television, HRT often interrupts them. Why? I ask why HRT bothers what is said in the Croatian Parliament? For what? Sad and embarrassing. And most unfortunate and embarrassing that Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament, well and minority representatives in the Croatian Parliament, will vote for this and such a supervisory committee, for this and such director of the HRT who decided that it is not important for the Croatian public to watch what is happening in the Assembly. Also, I would like to look back on that, that is, in the way one leader is, I will tell Alexander Stankovic directly where he interrupts his guest when he suits him, where he imposes the thesis that does not correspond to the truth, where he twists and manipulates. And then when he does, he's even convinced that the show was made for him. Alexander Stankovic told me on my note, this is where I'm going to talk about what I want to talk about. So if by any chance a guest wants to talk about something other than what he wants to talk about he interrupts and interferes, he won't let him talk. Why? Because Aleksandar Stankovic believes the show "Sunday at 2" is subordinated to him as a leader, that it exists for him and not for the sake of guests. When I threw out the mockery and got off his show, and I said publicly and openly what I think about his character and his work, the way he ran public television, he sued me. That same Alexander Stankovic. Why? Because I hurt his honor and reputation, and he insults his common sense, harassing 4 million citizens who have to watch him, or not who have to look at him because his ratings have dropped, people are increasingly less interested in what he has to say. And I could talk here now against Alexander Stankovic, but I won't. You know why? Because it's not his fault. You HDZ gentlemen have allowed that person to do the job of a leader there, you are responsible for that. You've got to get him out of here immediately. Because what he's doing, that, I haven't heard in the history of Croatian journalism that some manager sued his guest. I don't know if you heard that, it's like having an interview with someone and suing him for what he said about you. Did you hear that? Here, I invite you, honestly tell me because I think it belongs to the annals of Croatian journalism. And then he's out there waving that he's got some prizes. What kind of reward does he have? Who gives him prizes? The same ones, the same bosses who kept him there like that. Is that objective journalism, ladies and gentlemen? You gentlemen here at HDZ are talking to us against the Most. So who brought God Petrov as a home friend there on Sunday at 2? So tell me gentlemen, who brought him? Alexander Stankovic brought God Petrov. He didn't bring him once, he didn't bring him twice, he brought him three times before the election. For what reason? Why him? And then he explained some of his solutions to get Croatia out of the crisis and what I know. Why did the citizens have to watch this demagogy? Well, because Alexander Stankovic wanted to. And who gave him that? HDZ, ladies and gentlemen. You said Plenkovic was a man, right? That he's the guy who sent the MOST out of the government, right? He said, what did he say? He told the secretaries to prepare, prepare the shifts. If it's really a man, not just him, or a strong woman not to insult ladies, then give it the same kind of barbecue and style, it's easy for MOSTs, so get rid of Alexander Stankovic. Let the headmaster or the board of directors of the secretary prepare your shift. But you can't change him because you serve him, because he serves you, because his survival is in that place in your interest. Because if it wasn't in your best interest, they would have removed it, like you're all other capable journalists. We all know why Mr. Dennis Latin was removed. Because of its "Latinica" about Tomislav Karamark, which has never been published. So when a man dares to touch HDZ politics, or its leading figures, he moves. Alexander Stankovic is not moving. Why? Well, because it adheres to your rules. He's playing inside the default frame that you've set him up. And then you pretend that you should replace him, who like him allows, asks Mr. Culey, that is. Why he's still in charge. That's why, Mr. Culey, because HDZ leaders like Alexander Stankovic are responding. Because leaders like Aleksandr Stankovic serve HDZ because leaders like Aleksandr Stankovic hide HDZ affairs, because leaders like Aleksandr Stankovic don't talk about important topics, but they deal with non-essential topics. And because unfortunately they don't, because he doesn't care about Croatia any more than you do. You and Stankovic are just as carefree and you're just halfway there and that's it. Sad, sad. I call upon you once again to gather courage, it's not too late. It's not too late. You can still have the headmaster of HRT you can tell him please, give him a shift, we can't watch him anymore. I can't watch him. If it were up to me, I'd take him off tomorrow. But the HDZ gentlemen aren't up to me, it's up to you, only you can replace him. I don't even have a problem with you putting on someone else's half-tron. No, I don't have a problem with that either. But Stankovic, I just can't watch anymore. Please, if you want, we can make a deal. I'm ready to make a deal with you. I'm ready to step down. Here I am ready to support members of the HRT Supervisory Board not to tell Pernar not to cooperate, there's nothing he can do with Pernar. Now I'm telling you in public, here's a deal you can make with me, but let's get him out of here first. Let's reach an agreement that Stankovic is no longer on HRT as a show host, choose a new leader freely. Here's my suggestion to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65336	I thank my colleague Pernar and remind him again that the agenda item is not the change of Alexander Stankovic, but the report or the proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television, i.e. the report and the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. But good. Comrade Culey, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65337	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, at least there's something you and I agree on this time, which is that we have the same look on Sundays at 2:00. Something's bothering us. I'm not only bothered by the boss, I'm bothered by his guests. But I'll answer you like this. We can get along in that part, but we don't look at the same eyes on Sunday at 2. My reasons are completely different from yours. I look at the eyes of Croatian citizens who are deeply disturbed by the performance, the leader, the way the show is run, who are the guests, how they talk, what ideas and ideologies advocate. It bothers me. And the only thing that bothers you is that he took your measure, which he didn't give you a lollipop instead of a microphone. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65338	Thank you, colleague Culey. My colleague Pernar's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65339	You said you might be looking for his shift for other reasons, possibly but the goal brings us together. Alexander Stankovic is the person who connects me and you. We think the same thing about him at last is that he needs to be replaced. Well, I don't understand why that person hasn't already been removed. Why are you protecting him? Why doesn't HDZ and we don't have to lie to each other in plain terms, we all know that the HDZ is staring at HRT, deciding everything. If you can get me off the HRT that you've already done, get him out of here. But what's the big deal? It's easier to get Pernar off the HRT, it's easier not to invite Pernar to the show, it's easier to censor, it's easier to get the thought off what Pernar said. Well then I remember there was a contribution to say unisono everyone rejects the Hague court's verdict except for Ivan Pernar. And then they cut out a part of my speech that they're taking out of context. Is that journalism? And then later, Prime Minister Plenkovic says he respects the Hague court's verdict that Croatian generals are criminals. And then why do the reporters at HRT say that the opinion is unanimity, that the verdict is not accepted? Because they're lying. Because they're lying, ladies and gentlemen, and I say, once again, from HDZ, you must muster up your courage, remove Alexander Stankovic. I'm saying if you want any favors from me or compromise, here I am standing here. I'm prepared to agree with you on HRT policy to support members of the Supervisory Board, no problem. Headmaster, no problem. We can do something together. Let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65340	I thank my colleague Pernar. We're moving on to the next debate. Finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65341	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I tried to obtain a phonogram of the decision to appoint members of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board from July 3rd. I'll read you the whole debate. "I am opening a debate. There's no interest. There are no reports. I am concluding the debate." When political parties agreed according to a good custom, then there was no debate. But in the meantime, we've fallen on media freedoms for 11 places, so I guess that's why the debate has to take almost three and a half hours. So there's actually only one key question here. Let's ignore what we've been saying about who he is when he says something to, etc., so it's very clear. The ruling majority has no objection to the opposition having its representative on the Supervisory Board, but it is against being the one proposed by the opposition. There, it's about the Bosniaks don't mind if the Croats have a member of the BiH presidency, but sometimes they choose him. Isn't that right, Vice President? It happens. That's exactly what you're trying to do tomorrow. And good. As for Mr Grgic and some criticism of his work, so on 29 September 2016, the Ministry of Justice, so it was during the transitional period of the establishment of a new government. Mr. Oreshkovic was still a prime minister, and Mr. Sprlje Minister. He wrote that the legislative office's proposals represent the safest way of resolving the legal situation regarding the appointment of administrations. So, this main criticism to Mr Grgic simply doesn't stand. I see that colleagues from the Bridge have also proposed their amendment to the proposal of a board member, the Supervisory Board. However, it does not meet two criteria either. She is not a representative of the opposition, because she was still perhaps a member of the HDZ and the second criterion is that she was on the previous monitoring board, so she won't be able to pass. But you never do, I mean who knows. ... Yeah, well, in that case, he won't be able to accept it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, as far as all of this is concerned, there's only one thing left to do. Neither in the case of the HRT Supervisory Board nor in other cases, where an inter-party agreement is sought, not in the sense of the whole proposal, but in order to know how much it represents. So, that the opposition has one, and the ruling three, that by ruling then they give their three to the opposition to one, then they add it up to four, so we all vote yes. Well, that's why we have to vote for some of your proposals that we don't like at all, but because of the interparty agreement, we vote, and then you vote for some of your proposals, which you don't like at all, but because of parliamentary practice, you also vote. Well, then we have to explain to our people why we voted for this one of yours, which is totally unacceptable. You have to explain why we voted for ours, which is totally unacceptable to you, and then we all say it's parliamentaryism. Now, unfortunately, in the case of the HRT Supervisory Board, it seems, at least things aren't going to happen now. That's why we're sorry. And as for the offer of fellow Pernar, he has an unfortunate custom, that when someone personally resents him, he is willing to cooperate with everyone to get rid of it. That's how the lawyer for the kids staged it, because she called him what goes in front of high schools, so then the problem is now with Stankovic, because they have some kind of mutual conflict, so Pernaru, it's not a good idea, because he can always make a deal with HDZ, contrary to what the HDZ is going to say. Fellow Members and colleagues, if this is the case, the SDP Representatives Club will not support the proposal of the Supervisory Board. We also look to the Committee for Information, Information and Media now meeting and to declare the amendments that have been made as a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65342	I thank my colleague, Bauku. We have several replicas, dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65343	Comrade Bauk, you have well explained that the previous Supervisory Board, therefore, is both Mr Grgic and Mrs Šovagović Despot, that they have acted in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, which was signed by Minister Ante Švrlja on 29 September 2016. So people acted in accordance with the Ministry of Justice's opinion. As for Ms. Ana Sovagoic Despot, she will not be elected, she will not be accepted tomorrow by HDZ not because she is the proposal Mosta, the Mosta amendment, but because in her work, she has shown that she is not obedient but fair. The HDZ proposed it to the HRT Supervisory Board, counting on their obedience. And the lady has her integrity and she was honest. And when someone's honest, that HDZ forgives can't. They can dust everything. But being honest with someone, and even with the one they suggested, that's totally unforgivable for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65344	Thank you, fellow Stazic. My colleague Bauk's answer. No, I don't. Thank you. Dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65345	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk, you have beautifully described to us here what our parliamentaryism looks like, when we partyly agree on positions and opposition about voting on certain proposals, regardless of how much they like each other in terms of this or your side. And then you said that this time in the election of the Supervisory Board, it wasn't the case, because we didn't accept your proposal. I have to tell you, you've really leveled two things that can't be evened out. It's not a question. Do we like Mr. Grgic or do we not like him? There are criteria that have been equal for all members of the Supervisory Board, who have been removed. So I'm asking you, what would be the point and how we could even justify, to re-choice, the ones we've relieved of our duties, because they didn't act in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65346	I thank my colleague Jelkovac. My colleague Bauk's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65347	Last year, HDZ's majority replaced the government, with half the ministers now in power. 120 and something was against it. And you couldn't explain it, so it doesn't matter. So the criterion you mentioned is not a legal criterion. That's the criterion you've arbitrarily set because you can. And you asked us to adapt to that criterion. And we're a little unadjustable here. Here, that's all. So, we voted against the board's shift, right, fellow Stazic, and if we would accept your criteria, then we would have to accept that we were wrong when we voted against the board's shift. And you've put yourself in a position, that by voting to change the board of directors, if you'd accepted our proposal, you'd say you were wrong. Okay, well, what they're not, that's what we're staying on about. Now, how do you get out of this situation? You say that these opposition men are stubborn, but that you in the second paper will prove, in the next four years, that he was wrong and that he will prove it by his work. But this is already one of these verbal outwittings. So here's the basis of some arrangement, is that about proposals that apply to some quota clubs or a group of opposition or not, that about that, there's that old, kingdom, the kingdom doesn't prescribe laws. So let's talk about it quietly. So we vote for some who are totally unacceptable to us, but the ruling majority has proposed them and because you vote for those who are totally unacceptable to you, but the agreement proposed an opposition. I think for some of your proposals I would never really vote and I would have to explain, but I do know again that in the spirit of democracy, it is in the spirit of parliamentaryism and tolerance that sometimes I press this green even though I would not. But that's what you did, so then you understand me yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65348	I thank my colleague, Bauku. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the promoter, the final word, dear colleague Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65349	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's been a lot of talk today, and we've been discussing this wheel for a few hours, so let me just give some consideration to the debate and what we've been saying. So, again, I would say, because it is only best and I know the facts, and that is that the provision of Article 20(6) of the second Act on Croatian RadioTelevision stipulates that the authorities responsible for the selection will discharge the duties of the Director-General of Croatian RadioTelevision if the competent authority for the election or the Supervisory Board of the HRT determines that that person does not perform its duty in accordance with this law and/or the Statute of the HRT. Therefore, it may be forgotten but should be repeated on the basis of the Decision of the Council on Electronic Media of 17 December 2015, which again refers to the Croatian Supervisory Board in accordance with Article, paragraph and points of the HRT Act, to the request for appropriate measures to be taken in accordance with the cited law and the Statute of the HRT, since it has been established that HRT does not run the business book in accordance with I will repeat, in accordance with Articles 38 and 8. HRT law. The Director-General of HRT has been established not to perform its duties under this law and the Statute of the HRT. He was obliged within a year of the date of entry into force of that law to bring his work and business into line with the provisions of that law. So there's nothing more normal and more natural to go for a change or change of one who doesn't adhere to the law and the Statute. So that's the minimum minimum to be respected. If I didn't go further into this elaborate, there was a lot of debate about the then Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board, and I wouldn't comment on it anymore. But I do have a need to say, given that the name of a potential candidate was mentioned here and I would like to tell you that when we announced a tender for the selection of four members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Radiotelevision who can be elected, the conditions and the propositions of who can be, among other things, candidate for members of the Croatian Supervisory Board with a résumé, address of residence, telephone number, home checklist, statement of the candidate certified, certified by the public not to be in conflict of interest, overtures of the diploma, etc. Thus, it is known what the proposition was and what was to be taken into account. What I can certainly say to any potential candidate has not been discussed and conducted an interview that has not met the conditions of the competition. We cannot, of course, interpret individuals of individual laws, but we can read them, certain items, individual articles and items of the law. Therefore, we have the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest listed in Article 3 of the Law, so the lists of 45 positions. The provisions of this law apply also to officials appointed or confirmed as officials by the Croatian Parliament, appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or by the President of the Republic of Croatia other than persons appointed by the President of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the provisions of the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. So in this law, there is no thing that some here have called for in the list of officials within the meaning of this law. We have the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, the basic provisions of the article are also the first number of officials. And there's no such thing as what respected colleagues have been invited to do. Therefore, according to this Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, a respected professor is not a potential candidate, is not an official. And then we have the Law on the State Judicial Council which says: “In Article 34, this is important for understanding when we talk about who it is as a state official and whether it can be in the Supervisory Board.” Article 34(1): “The members of the Council of the University of Legal Sciences, the legal sciences on the proposal of the Faculty are chosen by all the professors of the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Croatia. Article 2 ‘The Faculty Council shall establish a list of candidates for the selection of members of the Council.’ and Article 3 ‘The selection procedure of the Commission for the conduct of the elections and the way in which the elections are conducted shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure, which shall be adopted by the deans of the Faculty of Law.’ So here's what I'm not gonna do. I'm not gonna take up more of your time. There's a lot of things that's been said. I think that we all wanted to, we got along well, and that the absolutely potential candidate isn't in what I read here in the conflict of interest with all the conditions that should have been met, but ultimately they have bodies that can determine it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65350	I thank the respected Mr. Mikulic. We have one replica, dear colleague Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65351	Here's just a little bit of conflict of interest. The law lists who are all state officials and says "and those who appoint the Croatian Parliament on their duties". The Croatian Parliament shall appoint members of the DSV. Now, a certified statement, a statement from a candidate certified by a public notary. What does she mean? She means he came to the public notebook and said I'm not in a conflict of interest and what does the notebook confirm? What he said. Not the fact that he is or is not in conflict of interest because he cannot determine it. That determines the sole commission. Not my colleague Mikulić, not me. And that will determine the commission. And as the public notary's statement is true, we've had opportunities to testify with Mr. Petrov. Well, that's the value of that statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65352	Thank you, fellow Stazic. The answer of my colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow Stazic, do I understand you well, so you question a statement certified by a public notary? Can you and I interpret that? We can't, Your Honor, Mr. Stazic. Well, there's a public record cabinet that's authorized someone to be a public notary. You're saying here we can't watch who's in conflict of interest and interpret and here you're interpreting a public record statement. I would never dare, and I won't, because I have no authority or knowledge to do so. And otherwise, two representatives are elected to you from the legal professions, and they have been elected by the Council of Justice, the Faculty of Law, by Article 34. So that's what this is about, not what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65354	I thank Mr. Mikulic. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break to 17 and 45. It's 5:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65355	We now move on to the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Committee on Information, Information and Media submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendments to the Committee. I find that most of the votes, 111 for and 10 against us have decided to hold a debate on the amendment of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. I ask the applicant's representative to explain the amendment submitted. Please, dear colleague Andrija Mikulić, president of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65356	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Committee on Information, Information and Media on the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Radio Television shall submit the following amendments. First in the name of the decision. In the name of the decision behind the word 'nomination', the words 'acts' are added. And the second at the point of the first decision at the point of the first decision, the doctor of science Eduard Kunschtek is deleted. Explanation. Therefore, at its 14th session held on 15 December 2017, the Committee in question decided to withdraw the proposal to appoint the Doctor of Science, Eduard Kunštek, to now appoint only three members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Radio Television, and for the fourth member we will be going to the repeat public tender and we will soon agree on the text of the competition, and the potential place is for the candidate of the parliamentary minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65357	Thank you. I am opening a debate on the amendments of the Committee in accordance with Article 199(2) of the debate only representatives of the clubs of the representatives may participate. First came from a colleague named Milorad Pupovac. I'm sorry, my colleague Bauk first called after him, a colleague of the Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65358	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP club on amendment number one, I will talk about amendment number two, so now you see with time. You've got 15 minutes. Thank you. Therefore, as regards the first amendment, it provides for the selection of part of the members of the Supervisory Board and the second amendment only to follow that decision. There's only one question here. Will the opposition agree that their representative determines the majority or to veto the majority of the opposition to the parliamentary minority or not? So this half-step back is one maneuver trying to order leaves us a place but you can't make whoever you want, but we can make a deal about it. In that sense, Amendment number one cannot be accepted, we remain in the presence of a good parliamentary practice that the ruling majority determines within the opposition who will be their representative. Thank you. My colleague Stazic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65359	Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65360	Thank you. So already yesterday, we have defended the principle that the parliamentary majority has the right to three, a parliamentary minority right to one. Despite the day-long debate, this morning the parliamentary majority accepted our argument and therefore we will vote for those three candidates proposed by the parliamentary majority because we are doing it out of our democratic belief. We don't get into names, we don't care what those names are, and we don't analyze names. The right of the parliamentary majority is to propose three candidates, and we will vote for those three candidates accordingly. The parliamentary majority did not accept the name of the parliamentary minority candidate yesterday but today. Our candidate. She didn't accept the name. Today, however, she accepted the principle not to choose all four but to choose her three and to open a new public call for the fourth and to choose for the fourth one later. We will accept this as a continuation of good parliamentary practice. Yesterday we also warned of Mr Kunstek, we said that we believe that he is in conflict of interest, we have announced that we will seek the opinion of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests on this matter, if he is elected and we are pleased that the parliamentary majority today has accepted our arguments since yesterday and withdrawn this candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65361	We have one replica, a respected colleague of the coat of arms, in part of Mr. Bauk's exposure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65362	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bauk, I am now after all we have heard in the last ten minutes extremely confused so please explain to me because some things are not clear to me. In particular, do I not understand whether there are any candidates who have applied, who have expressed their desire to be members of the supervisory boards of those who might be considered candidates of the parliamentary minority? Because the president of the Media Committee's move is clear, we have candidates for the parliamentary majority and we have candidates for the parliamentary minority. So I'm asking you among those who might be elected today, are there any candidates who might be considered candidates for the parliamentary minority? And secondly, give me an explanation if we have the principle that the parliamentary minority has the right to propose a candidate to join the HRT Supervisory Board, so why don't we choose them? So if we have a candidate, why don't we choose him if the principle is now declared that a parliamentary minority belongs to one of the supervisory committees? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65363	Replication response, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65364	Because they're trying to sell us a story... To forgive you for beating you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, trying to sell stories, I quote "Balkan spy", "Jura will forgive you for beating you." [[Intruder President: You can repeat, we have not caught.]] My colleagues also warn me there is an extension that I will translate into Croatian, “you will apologize nicely and you will apologize nicely. ” So there's... I keep my hand in my pocket, not in someone else's pocket. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So, there is a principle that is also listed here, which is also proposed by the amendment and the proposer Mr Mikulic said that the parliamentary minority is proposing someone. It's got some kind of quota. And there's a principle at least so far that we haven't discussed who's going to enter whose quota, so what the rulings have proposed we would support whatever we didn't like. What we would suggest, they would also support although some did not like it, but without them they could not be voted, and now on behalf of the SDP, the club has proposed to be clear what the candidate is, four amendments to this decision proposal and that is Mr Grgic, who has been because we believe and voted against his resolution that he was good and that most colleagues consider it bad, so they replaced him. But by admitting and giving up on that candidate, we would admit that they were right. And they would recognize their right to determine who will be on our behalf. And that's why we can't accept that principle of these half steps back, but it's still only half a step. So, next time they can object to one more of our candidates, then we'll have to do it again, so either it's the opposition's representative or it's not. It's like choosing a Croatian representative in BiH. Either they choose it themselves or someone else chooses it for them and we're not trying to get someone else to pick it for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65365	We're going to a second debate, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65366	Dear Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, is pleased that the Media and Information Committee has opened the space to reach an agreement between the ruling majority and the opposition, with regard to the 4th member to belong to the opposition. And we hope that this will agree within the opposition, in order for this agreement to be reached, that is, this gesture made by the ruling majority and can be realised. As for the Club of Representatives of the SDSS in line with the debate we had yesterday in the Assembly, we do not address the issue of the HRT report from 2014-2016 whether the financial, any programme council, whether the Board of Supervisors function, only on the matter of members of the Supervisory Board. What we are concerned about is the general trend of the deterioration of the situation in that for us an extremely important public media service. And we think that's the consequence of a few factors. The first factor is that the law, which was passed at the time of Director Goran Radman, on which the bodies, such as the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council, were largely authorised, and powers were transferred to the administration, i.e. to the Directorate. Thus, the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council, in fact, became some sort of debate, and not the places where responsibility is shared, with regard to the selection of key people, when, in the middle of the programme, it is only for the assessment of those who manage the house, it means the directorship and the management. In our view, it is not democratic enough, in our opinion it is not good and it was shown during that term, where conflicts between the supervisory board and the board of directors broke out, where conflicts between the programme councils broke out. And we think it's necessary to access as recently as possible, so at the beginning of next year, to amend the law on HRT, in order to make a solution, which will be better than what we have now. And I call on our partners in the ruling coalition to agree on this, to show that we are not closed, not only to discuss HRT, but not to be closed, so that there are as many democratic mechanisms and democratic decision-making systems in HRT bodies as possible. And reducing the status of the programme council and the supervisory board only to ficus within the management system is a poor condition. It was one idea, as she may have had good intentions, but unfortunately it ended badly, ended badly by the programming council, by the board of directors and by the director himself. And for this reason, in order to strengthen the role of citizens through the programme council, in order to strengthen the role of the Parliament through the Supervisory Board, then we think it is extremely important to strengthen their autonomy, and their autonomy will increase if their powers are strengthened in this regard. And that is what the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and, together with representatives of national minorities, other representatives of national minorities see as an important step in preserving the public service of HRT, both television and radio. Another thing you'd like to say, as far as the editorials are concerned, for national minorities. The government programme, which was adopted before the formation of this government, said that early next year, it would begin to implement the structure of the editorial for national minority programmes, both on the radio and on television, because the solution so far is unfortunately insufficient. And we also suggest that, for this in the acts of HRT in their programme scheme, in their organisational scheme, there is room for HRT, Croatian radio, Croatian television, to have adequate space software and content when information and content are relevant to national minorities. After the decision of the Media and Information Committee this morning, as well as after the discussion, the SDSS representatives' club will support the appointment decision as decided, a decision on the selection of the new composition of the Supervisory Board, so that the public service, due to the long-running crisis, the absence of the Supervisory Board, so that the public service, HRT, would not enter the quiz, that they could not adopt the necessary acts, on the budget for the following year. to avoid being prepared for the next financial and programming period. I would like to express my gratitude to all those who participated in achieving this kind of, compromise and agreed solution, first and foremost to the president of the HDZ Club, Mr Bačić, as well as others who participated in this and, of course, to their colleagues from the National Minorities Club, Dr Radin and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65367	One is a replica, dear colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65368	Thank you. Comrade Pupovac, I would still like to hear from you a clear view of the principle, would you like most to determine which minority representatives will be? And that's what I'm curious about. So here we're not talking about whether they pulled one or not. However, for political reasons, they had to do it because they know that we prefer to choose four of their own because then they could talk about HRT being a party television. So they had to do it. But I'm more interested in your attitude. Is it acceptable for you to determine the majority of the representatives of the minority? For example, that representatives of the Serb minority are determined by representatives of the majority? Or that the representatives of the Italian minority are determined by representatives of the majority or representatives of all others? And that's what I'm curious about, so your attitude. And if your position is such that minority representatives determine minorities, then you can't be on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65369	Here's your answer. Here's your Pupovac buddy. Comrade Pupovac, the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65370	Dear colleague Bauk, as far as rhetorical figures are concerned, I would not use new rhetorical figures to play with your minority term. What is absolutely certain is that what belongs to the ruling majority should not be determined by the opposition, and what belongs to the opposition should not be determined by the ruling majority. It's been a practice so far. And as you can see, the ruling majority has opened up space for the opposition to propose its candidates or its candidate to be another member of the Supervisory Board. Who these candidates will be is a matter of agreeing between the ruling parties, between the opposition parties. So far, all we've heard are attitudes, individual attitudes of the SDP. We have not heard the views of the other opposition groups, and now it is an opportunity to hear the voices of everyone in the coming time and to agree and to come up with a solution that will represent the opposition's solution or attitude. And otherwise, the principled attitude about who needs to determine who told you clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65371	Thank you. We are going to the next debate on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the respected Vice-President of the Furio Radin Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65372	Thank you, Mr. President. Although representatives of national minorities would like to live in a society where it does not matter whether members of the Supervisory Board of Public Croatian Television will be members of the majority of political or minority political rather than be experts and honest people who will be able to decide whether HRT works on the basis of the set goals and values and social values that a public television should have. So even though we would like to live in such a society, we know that we do not live in such a society, so we choose what seems wiser at a certain point. What is now proposed by the member, by the chairman of the Committee on Information and Media, seems to us a logical sequence of talks, a debate that took place in Parliament. And when something stems from a debate in Parliament, that is to change the decision that was in advance, which was once prepared for us, it means one victory in any case of parliamentaryism. So those policies that tell us that we live in a world of opportunity, not in an ideal world. So living in a world of potential we accept leaving a place after the debate to place a parliamentary minority or parliamentary opposition. I prefer the name of the opposition to the minority, you call it the minorities so we know exactly who your conversation is. Because even though we think of ourselves as communities, we're already used to being considered minorities and you're trying as it was now visible to play with us when we're supposed to and when we don't need it especially at times like this when we're wondering if we accept that most of us decide about us. And who will decide in the Parliament if not most? We live in such a world and indeed accept it, but we would also like the members of the Supervisory Board from the majority and members of the Supervisory Board and the opposition to finally start talking about real, not playing with national minorities, but finally talking about the real problems of national minorities on the public media. And what are these problems? That's the first thing I'm going to do, I'm going to start with the one mentioned by my colleague, Pupovac, of the national minority newsroom. My national minority, the Italian national minority, had two redistributions in Rijeka and Pula in the last term of how to say in the past government. Because I don't know where there are more policies than there are on HRT, so we can say in the past rule of HRT. Because there's more politics on HRT than here in the Parliament. Redactions have been cancelled, so there are no more editorials or national minorities at all. As far as other programmes are concerned, it has one meaning, when it comes to national minorities, it has a very different meaning. And what meaning is that? That's what it means to often lose autonomy. The second is the problem, so the return, so the first problem is the return of the national minority's editorials. Another problem in general of national minorities' news on television this Radio Intruder Reiner: Fellows, please be quiet for a while that colleague Radin can exhibit normally. Please! Here you go. We actually see that opposition doesn't listen to what, they don't care So we'd like to have again television newsrooms that no government, no left authority, no right and left centre or right center has established before 1990. There were national minority TV newsrooms and there were programs. [[You mean a minority?]] Well, they used to be more common, and then they were rare after every 15 days, but we also had journals in the languages of national minorities. It's all gone. National minorities are spoken of on television and on radio and in other media, but here we are talking about HRT. Of course it's said when it does, when it's a problem. It is not said, not to ask national minorities about problems, but to discuss national minorities when they become a problem. I'm closing up. I hope that the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board will participate in overseeing the proper setting of Croatian broadcasting, not only on the financial issue, but also on the implementation of the basic objectives of course which exist here and the Programme Council, the programme objectives which have been outlined in relation to the policies of national minorities and the problems affecting national minorities at the moment. Croatian broadcasting is public precisely because it has a special law that gives it the opportunity to collect the tax and on the basis of this tax which is actually a single tax let's be clear. It must perform certain functions both in education and in civil society And also a function that must, concerning the objectives of human rights and the rights of national minorities. [[I'm asking you to be quieter.]] That is why we accept this solution and hope to complete quickly with this fifth member, because the fourth member is from HRT and this fifth member that the Supervisory Board will be filled in so that both national minorities and Croatian society will, in general, follow those programmes that actually affirm values, positive values of Croatian society and inform people, inform citizens of such positive values. I want to believe that these four people for whom we will raise our hands here in the Parliament, although they will be chosen on the basis of some division between the majority and the opposition that will be above the majority and above the opposition, and that they will be honorable people who will control the work of Croatian broadcasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65373	I thank my colleague, Radina. We are now going to the discussion of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65374	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, before I look back at the amendment of the Media Committee, I would like to say that as long as there is a perception in the Croatian public that any political option in the country, in Croatia manages the leading media service in Croatia, the ratings and quality level, i.e. in the first place, the ratings of this media will decline in competition with other media at national level. I say perception because it is possible to ask the question in which way political parties at this point have the power to manage this important public service. However, since we politicians are often prone, and this is seen today that in this management sector or part of the public service, we have our representatives in order to have a crucial impact on the editorial policy of this public service, it is necessary to intervene in the Law on HRT, it is necessary to intervene in the Law on HRT. And what I do know is that it's thinking about it at the government level, at the level of the resolution ministry, and that change would go in two directions. The first direction is to restore the importance and role of the Programme Council as a crucial body in Croatian broadcasting that controls the role of public service that observes how and how this public media provides and fulfils its public role in Croatian society. With this law passed by the ruling majority then at the time of the Kukuriku Coalition, the Program Council has no role in the public service it had before. That's the first thing. And secondly, it is necessary to establish a better, better-quality relationship between the Programme Council on the one hand and the Supervisory Board which we today will hope to choose, to appoint not entirely, rather than four or three members. Therefore, it is something that needs to be done by intervention in the Law on HRT, and otherwise the Government is preparing to amend the media legislation in Croatia and the Law on Electronic Media seems to me in the second year to come. Therefore, the Law on Electronic Media is planned in the plan for the normal activity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I will now return the day of the amendment of the Media Committee. And before that, I'm going to make another crackdown, which is that the law passed by the SDP government, or the Kukurik coalition, has been amended by a provision which explicitly stated that members of the Supervisory Board, the 4th must be one from the ranks of the opposition. So, in the law passed by the HDZ government, then the government in which HDZ was the strongest coalition partner in 2010. He made it clear that the 4-member Supervisory Board had one coming out of the opposition ranks. The 2012 Act which I had mentioned earlier has been erased by that provision. The fact is that the SDP, nevertheless naming the supervisory board, accepted the candidate that HDZ then proposed, but in the normative part of the law itself, the provision was deleted. So, so much for whether we have in HDZ or we have no desire to have an opposition representative on the HRT Supervisory Board. When we passed the law, and then the SDP shut down. And now the SDP would be transferring to us, if we didn't want the opposition involved in the work of the HRT Supervisory Board, it's funny, funny. And this isn't a step back. This amendment to the Media Committee is not a step back. Why? Because we're with this amendment, in a position we've been talking about for five full months. And that is that we will choose the Supervisory Board and that out of the four members, three members will come from the ranks of the ruling, one that will come from the ranks of the opposition. After the Media Committee, 11.11. interviewed with 31 candidates, we tried to arrange a candidate with the opposition. I, here, agree with my colleague Pupovac, did not speak with all club presidents, who come from the opposition parties, but exclusively with counterpart Bauk. I assumed that my colleague Bauk, proposing his candidate, had made, within the opposition parties, the necessary consultations to propose candidates from the opposition ranks. And again, I will repeat what I have already repeatedly repeated to our colleagues from the SDP, which is that the ruling does not go into the selection of candidates who will come from the opposition ranks. What is unacceptable to us, in the ranks of the ruling, is that we appoint anyone, any of the persons, members, of the previous HRT Supervisory Board, why? For one reason only, which has been found by the judicial institutions 4 times, that the Supervisory Board did not respect the Law on HRT to which the law was required to act. And that's been established four times and twice by the Commercial Court, once by the whiskey court and once by the Administrative Court. When the Supervisory Board wanted to establish a temporary director, the basis of the Law on Institutions, rather than the basis of the Law on HRT. And that was the only criterion. So, we're not getting into who our opposition colleagues are going to propose, it's up to them to pass. In addition to the Republic of Croatia, 4 persons who participated in the work of the Supervisory Board, which this assembly of the Assembly, resolved the duties of members of the Supervisory Board on 13 July this year, which in our opinion has violated the Croatian judiciary Law on HRT. And we hold that there is no need, then, for one of those members, who has violated that law to be a member today, almost the most important body, in that institution, under whose law of establishment he was obliged to act. And nothing more and nothing less. Therefore, this is not a step back, nor a half step back. This is our position, which we said, which is that as far as we're concerned, the opposition has the right to run for office, when it's transferred, we'll accept it. The only condition is that none of the four members of the former supervisory board can be chosen because we've solved them for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65375	We have two replicas, a respected colleague of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65376	Thank you very much, colleague Bačić, regardless of the intonation, tone, gesticulation, which may seem convincing to the superficial observer as you are now saying. But those who are a little bit more focused on the facts that know the intentions behind this, I cannot trust you, first of all, because neither these people that you said, 4 in the opinion of your government, that is, the Ministry of Justice in the Government of Mr. Oreshkovic. So Minister Sprlje gave the opinion that they were acting in accordance with the HRT Act, so your government gave them the right. And on the other hand, if you really want to support the right of the opposition, which is justified to have a representative on the Supervisory Board, you can do so very easily. We can deal with this now, and we can no longer burden the public or HRT with this problem, so that you vote for a gentleman, or, for an amendment tabled by the SDP Representatives' Club. You cannot, Mr. Bacic, or HDZ dictate what will be the opposition's proposal. So we're going to move one now, and you're not going to do it for a certain reason. Then it's not the opposition's proposal, it's the HDZ's proposal. So you say you can pass, except for those, quiet and quiet, which HDZ doesn't want. It's an HDZ proposal, and people need to know that. So no matter what I say to this again, your rather superficial observer, perhaps even a convincing gesture of both tone and color of voice, we just don't believe you. And I ask you to support our amendment and get that story off the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65377	Replication response, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65378	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Maras, I did not resolve members of the HRT Supervisory Board who were in the previous convocation of that body, but was done by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Media Committee and please read when you are not superficial, so please read the decision and the explanation of the resolution. In that explanation, it states why members of the former Board of Supervisors of the HRT are relieved of their duties. And the parliament brought a convincing majority there, since the Parliament agreed with the work of counterpart Grgic, then it would not have been resolved. If we found that he was one of the members of the board who did not comply with the law, then it would be quite inappropriate for these same people who voted in favour of his decision to now accept him as a candidate and member of the supervisory board because they would say that what we claimed a few months ago and reiterated the decisions of the commercial court and of the administrative court and of the high court then we would absolutely turn out to be unworthy because we hold that what the administrative court said was right and that is that, when certain decisions are made, they must be bound to the law of lex specialis, which is the Law on HRT, and not any other law. And that was the reason, I personally have nothing against Mr. Grgic, I got both his email this morning and the man I can understand, I have nothing personal against him, but I have an obligation to respect the decision made by this assembly seems to me on July 13th when he resolved that supervisory board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65379	Second replica, dear colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65380	Thank you. Yesterday you had four logical mistakes and today three, but you spoke shorter, so it's on average. The first logical mistake is not to go into the opposition's proposal and then you gave a condition we can't. So it's an insertion, it's the first logical mistake. Another logical mistake is that you can't be for Mr Grgic because you solved him but you challenge our right to be for him because we voted against his resolution. And the third logical mistake, perhaps most importantly, is that Mr Grgić's right to challenge that some judicial, administrative court, seems to me, etc., said that this supervisory board to whom he is not normally a representative, has not worked well and he has listened to the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, but well, the minister has changed but also the Office of Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia whose chair has not changed for ten years, and on the other hand, because of what he has not done, the court will say something among other things to the representatives who have not as a body, but as individuals also certain objections from the judicial authorities and without such representatives, you would not have a parliamentary majority. It's also a logical little mistake like the mayor you have in a county that also has some problems with the opinion of the police, a misdemeanor court, etc. Therefore, these are three logical mistakes that I want to warn about, so the fundamental question is whether the opposition has the right or the opposition has the right to allow it by the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65381	Replication response, colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65382	Comrade Bauk, you have been Minister of Administration, you should know the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and be more careful when you talk about colleagues sitting with us here in this House, regardless of whether they are among the ruling or among the opposition representatives. Every representative, every man in Croatia, applies to every principle of presummation of innocence, so please be more careful when you talk about each of us here in the Assembly. Whomever supports it is the decision of an individual representative, not what you think that representative should say and how he should behave. There's no logical error in my presentation. We said clearly, and this is that members of the Supervisory Board who were on duty until July 13th because, according to the position and decision of this Assembly, they did not comply with the law, they cannot be members of the new Supervisory Board from the ranks of the ruling or from the ranks of the opposition. And that's our attitude we said five months ago. If we had thought differently then, Comrade Bauk, we wouldn't have solved them. If they hadn't broken the law, we wouldn't have been rid of them, and it's perfectly logical, normally, that someone you solved because of breaking the law would now be in violation of his own logic if he were put in that same body again. And if that doesn't make sense to you, I don't know how to explain it differently. No one enters your right to choose but you have to understand that what we said was someone doing against the law, there can be no argument now to say, no, he's okay and let him go back to the HRT Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65383	We're going to the last debate now. On behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65384	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the principle that one member of the Supervisory Board is elected by the opposition and three authorities is a good principle, that's a great principle. However, there is one problem in this combination and the problem is next. Namely, both the authorities and the opposition, the SDP's type of opposition is actually the same informal structure of power. What does that mean in practice? Well, that basically means the Zionist agenda. This means, for example, news from occupied Palestine will never be on HRT, Israel's occupation of these territories will never be condemned, etc. Or, the Palestinian lands, they won't, they'll talk, maybe they'll talk. Please don't get in my word. [[Invader President: Comrade Pernar, please stick to the topic that we are not leaving now, the topic is selecting members of the Supervisory Board.]] What's my time going on while you're in my word? [[Intruder President: I am not in your word, but I am telling you about what it is, please choose to stick to the topic.]] Can you explain that? ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So this raid is very subtle because it wants to bring me down, but you're not going to bring me down in my mind. So Israel violates UN General Assembly Resolution 194 The aim is to point out to me that these members of the Croatian Supervisory Board will not act on the programme council or on the head director of HRT to change its editorial policy. [[President: I warn you, I will give you a warning, do not violate the Rules of Procedure, the subject is the selection of members of the HRT Supervisory Board.]] And I want to say exactly which items. And there's one of these. So Israel expelled in 1948. 750,000 Palestinians from their country, ethically cleansed them, and to this day they are not allowed back. He occupied the West Coast, too, Resolution 242
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65385	.../Intruder President: Comrade Pernar, I give you a reminder./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65386	... And because you are all persistent in supporting this system, which regardless of who from the SDP or HDZ was on the board of directors, it is expected that no changes in editorial policy will be made. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] When the SDP led the HRT, it was party television, which went to that extent for censorship, that even abolished the confrontation, pre-election that was, i.e. It should be 2015. That was one precedent. And HDZ's model of governance, television, is also essentially censorship, only a little more subtle. You'd dare say that in a little more sophisticated methods. However, for us from the Living Wall, there is essentially no difference, whether it is in the supervisory board, all of the SDP, all of the HDZ or mixed. Because they won't be discussing ending a TV subscription, because the Supervisory Board will never launch that topic. There will never be a question in the Open, is it okay, that Manson, Marijan Handzekovic, massacres on behalf of the HRT citizen. That question is never on the agenda. It wasn't going to be. Why? Because the programme council, i.e. the Supervisory Board and the head director of the HRT, is in the service of one man, a man known as the king of the execution. And who boasts publicly, I invented that model of billing TV subscription and we can't question it. Why? Because there's no representative of the Living Wall on the monitoring board, there's no program council. All the editors who have been obedient, they remain, and those who have talked about crime, such as Dennis Latin, who made the Latina show, about Tomislav Karamark, not only has it not been broadcast, but it has been replaced as editor. His show's been canceled. Has anyone on the Board of Supervisors questioned that? Well, it's not. Why? Because Dennis Latin... A journalist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And Alexander Stankovic, when it comes to his character and act, then everyone jumps on their feet. Journalist society reports, the HRT team says, it's unacceptable, pressure on him etc. What about the pressure on Dennis Latin? What about the pressure on Maya North? After visiting Kalinic, where he discovered in fact how HRT works, which is the media, the show was canceled. There's no discussion about that. They're not gonna stand behind Maya North because Maya North isn't... You can't control it on a remote control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, we come to the fact that, as God's Word, the Supervisory Board is changing, and in the end, everything remains the same. And that is the policy that has been implemented in Croatia for the last 25 years. It's a piece of paper. Heads change, as Glasnovic would say, but the story is always the same. And the story comes down to propaganda, propaganda in the service of the ruling party, it comes down to censorship, over those who don't think as the ruling party. And actually, what HRT offers is one brain. You're all aware of that and the gentlemen of the SDP and the gentlemen of the HDZ. The question I'm asking is, will the new supervisory board stop unanimity? Well, we all know he won't. This means that Ivan Pernar, the most popular parliamentary representative accompanied by 230 000 people, will never be invited to the HrT daily. But various anonymouss and marginalists will be invited. Why? Because Ivan Pernar is not desirable. Ivan Pernar is an unscathed, Ivan Pernar is a persona... on HRT. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Will the Supervisory Board change the same about that? He won't. And unfortunately, not only do you control the guests, but you also control the topics. You do not allow key topics to be discussed in Croatia. The CNB's monetary policy. The fact that the CNB is a currency exchange, which is a debt, which the interest money doesn't exist. What the earth loads with debt and sinks into ruin. This year's biggest natural decline in the population has been recorded in the last 25 years. Or about their samples. Why can't we discuss it? Why doesn't the Supervisory Board build a program council to discuss these issues? On the issue of HRT's performance, it sends 100,000 a year. Massacres the citizens with that. Did you ever hear and eat HRT's show where it's being discussed? Did you hear that? Here, let me know if it is. You may feel that this is not a problem and that the HRT programme is excellent and that the supervisory board in the past or new composition is quite fine. Okay, you think so, I don't think so. And many of those 100,000 citizens think that you deliberately censor and hide the subject. To hide the fact that for a single swear, a man's long life is a 700 kuna tip. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not fair. And of course HRT does not question such a system of performance. Why? Well, because he's spending it on his own. I remember when someone was at Stankovic's, then Stankovic objected to the executions, then he answered them, so you yourself on HRT are spending the same way, massacred the citizens. He hung it up. Of course, Stankovic did not then question the model of charge of HRT's performance but skipped to another topic. And that's what you systematically do, every time someone touches someone for you a tickling or awkward question, the subject changes. You say Mr. Pernar, he says, get back on the subject. Well, of course, because you're not comfortable with the topics I'm running. They don't suit you. Why aren't they answering you? Well, because they show your temper, they show your concern for the citizens. They show you that for two years you from HDZ have promised to protect the only real estate from the executions and the raids are daily. The currency clause is still there. 330 grand, and Karamarko said he'd save the blocked ones. Karamarko's changed, and what about the blocked one? Nothing. They're not gonna get their Santa Clauses paid for in a secure account. You're gonna do their Christmas cards. Aren't the blocked ones celebrating Christmas? They don't have the right to Christmas Eve? You don't care. And you know why you don't care? Because you have a salary of 14.5 to 17 thousand kuna. And what, when you care, it's like you care about those people that they won't have a Christmas card. He's asking a gentleman from HDZ if I have a lower salary. No, my salary is $17,000, but unlike you, I care about those people and you don't. Gentlemen, then decide to pay the Christmas check. I'll take off your hat first and support your proposal. But you don't care. As you didn't care when counterpart Goran Aleksic suggested that the interest that banks illegally took away from citizens, which was established by a judicial verdict by force of law, be returned to the people that the banks had actually robbed. They took money from a fraud that didn't belong to them. I will return to the topic and the topic is that the Supervisory Board has not asked for a debate on this subject on which counterpart Alexic has launched and handed over the amendment or law which you gentlemen of HDZ are representing as a great patriot on public television. [[Break President: Get back to the theme of colleague Pernar.]] And because the debate on public television is forbidden on these issues, because it is not there because problems are not solved. Why? Because the only way to solve the problem is to focus the media. If it's not in the media's focus, of course, then there's no perception of the problem. If there is no perception of the problem, is there a need to solve this problem? No, I don't. And this Assembly is the only place, that is, the only part of the HRT program where these topics can be seen here and there. And why is that? You know why? Well, because he's not censored, I can't tell me what I'm gonna say. I'll say what I mean and what I want to say. But even then HRT interrupts the program when I speak. It's often simple and Pernar talks, changes, commercials. Here's some great news or reruns I don't know any shows. Why does it bother them so much at the HRT Supervisory Board what I'm saying? And this problem unfortunately, I'd like to say only HDZ is to blame. I'd say that with a gusto if I were to be convinced. But I know it's not only HDZ's fault, I know that while the SDP was the same editorial policy. And for that reason I cannot support the members of the Supervisory Board because I know that whoever sits in them or the 4 SDPs or the 4 HDZs, or 2:3 3:1, whatever combinations you spin I know nothing will change. I know that the Living Wall will still be a persona non grata. Says the gentleman from HDZ, as if you could give the supervisory board a chance. So you know what, he said Churchill trast but verify, believe me, but check it out. If they show the opposite, if they talk me out of their politics, I'm not only gonna support them next time if they run for office, but I'm gonna go public with the pay phone and tell the guys to do their job. But to give them credit, so how many people have given your candidates Bianca's trust? Remember all the promises of 1000 euros for a newborn child? I don't want to keep counting your promises. He mentions Ivo Sanader will repay the foreign debt, cut the VAT, that we will, the promises. President Colinda, what was she saying? That Croatia will be the richest country in the world, that it will do so, so what has it done? But HRT can't discuss that. There is no show where pre-election promises would be discussed. So let the citizens see what SDP promises, what HDZ, which is the role of pre-election promises, etc. You've dragged the citizens into one farce, or state television, in a way that before the election, they serve their promises, and when the elections go by, you say, so we were just joking, so it was just a pre-election campaign, we didn't think so. There you go, ladies and gentlemen. But will such shows of pre-election promises be on HRT? Will the Supervisory Board ask to discuss this? It won't, because it's censorship. Any subject that's crucial to citizens, let's just say that 1,500 oil workers are fired, you think that's what's being discussed on HRT? No, because no one cares about these workers, they don't matter. Why? Because their chairs are safe, because they receive over a billion and a half kuna a year, there they distribute as they please. And the fact that the disaster program, that the viewership of the Dnevnik fell to 3% of HRT, you don't care. Well, you know, if it were 1%, if no one was watching, you'd still be voting for that head director and members of the Supervisory Board. Why? Because you don't care about the ratings or the quality of the HRT programme, it's only important that this propaganda is done in favour of both the ruling party and the other HDZ and the SDP. And then you say Mr. Pernar why you won't support us. So how can I support you? How can I give you a chance after all? And that's if Stankovic moves on that, then we can make a deal. But this is all you're spending and yet with Stankovic it's just that I can't swallow it. This is too difficult for me and for this reason I will vote against all proposed members of the Supervisory Board whether they come from the HDZ or the SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65387	We have three replicas. First of all, he's a respected colleague, Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65388	I hope the commercials are over. I had to take a little break for the commercials. Comrade Pernar, you gave a crucial argument that HRT during the SDP was party television because there was no confrontation. So the fact that there was no confrontation was said by the State Election Commission, and the real party TV would then nicely call the head director and say disregarding these from the State Election Commission, they're these bozos. Put in a face-to-face. It would be party television as I understand myself in the notion of party television. Then your second argument is you mentioned one journalist who usually works on the same show with this other journalist you mentioned at this point, who, unlike you, has a good opinion, but it doesn't matter. And then you said that she's not susceptible to influence if I'm political, etc. She was the editor of a show during that party television as you called during the SDP. I have to admit that I've been very often angry with her that sometimes she's very often criticized us without reason, but it's democracy. But it's not party television. She's not an editor anymore. So your rhetoric where you throw three bombs at the HDZ and then one and a half to the SDP per me is not correct. So neither was the party television. Will you please give me ten more seconds? I've been distracted for a little while. [[/Intruder President: Please! Please!]] So, as far as your bomb-throwing policy is concerned, there's no charm. There are those who need this rhetorical. You usually miss us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65389	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65390	Dear colleague Bauk, you were while you were saying that in your time HRT was not party TV colleagues from HDZ laughed. Why did they laugh? So they're not naive, so they know that you created a cult of personalities from Zoran Milanovic, that you said 500 jobs a week were opening, and it was true that 500 young people were leaving the country weekly. That was in your SDP program. When I saw it, I lost my temper. So how can you go to elections with such ground-floor lies? And then you're surprised you lost them. You're the one who's responsible for HDZ coming to power. If the SDP had any normal policy, the people wouldn't vote for HDZ, but you scattered your young people's policies and pushed a large part of the voters back into their hands. However, as far as the above is concerned, the DIP did not ask for no confrontation, but asked all candidates to be given the right or no right. And you said better to no one than everyone, you are instead of liberating all innocents you have condemned all innocents. It's your policy. And as for your great Maya North running the show. And why didn't you bring Denise Latin back? Ladies and gentlemen, many expected the SDP to return it, but there was no return for it because it was an independent personality structure, not a puppet, not at its end. And what you're saying is that now Maya North is working with Alexander Stankovic, so she's working with him because there's no choice, because there's no more show and the woman is existentially threatened, she has to work somewhere. I feel sorry for her for having to work with that man, but I wish her every happiness and every good in her life. And when the Living Wall comes to power, they'll have their own show again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65391	Are you announcing an intervention on Croatian television?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65392	She will lead Sunday at 2:00 and Stankovic will help her prepare the show.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65393	You're worse than HDZ and I see SDP. Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65394	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, you've now demonstrated basically how the Living Wall would run the HRT, but now it's not a topic. The theme is to see that there's a lot of logic in your work sometimes. You look like you sometimes resonate in a strange way. Let's just say that you're talking about the fact that HDZ is unworthy and has not fulfilled, for example, the promise that it will give 1000 euros for each newborn child. And then there you see the disdain on the side of the HDZ, turning Mr. Bacic's head and saying it's not like that. Then on the other hand, when you say it, they promised that 330,000 people would unblock Mr. Shucker would move nervously into the chair. So, you can see that they detest HDZ when you say things like that. And then you say SDP and HDZ are the same, and then everyone laughs happy and blinks and says it's true, they say it's true. Well, you see, Mr. Pernar, there's something wrong with that. So, of all your thesis, they reject everything, except that SDP and HDZ are the same accepts. That's all they accept and say it's okay. And do you know why? Because HDZ doesn't care. If they're bad, they don't care if they're good, they're bad. And don't agree to that. So they're not all the same, they don't all have the same policy and don't advocate it. HDZ, if anyone says HDZ are thieves no matter, they'll say they're all thieves. They don't mind. Don't agree to that policy. They're not all the same. And I'm asking you to. At least try to understand it from their gestures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65395	The answer to my colleague Pernar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65396	Mr Maras, you can't say they're the same, because I remember when you promised to open 200,000 new SDP jobs, and Ivana Maletic, Vesna Pusic, did you talk about 200,000 new jobs, Cacic spoke, her deputy, and she said that pensioners would not receive pensions if we didn't join the EU. While the HDZ, for example, promised 180,000 new jobs. I remember the SDP password. I was a kid then. I even believed in her. You wrote a good life for everyone, not just them. I thought I'd live better when the SDP came to power, but that didn't happen, Mr. Maras. And I guarantee you that most of our citizens did not live better when the SDP came to power than only you of the SDP lived better. And that's true. You'll say it's not equal to guilty. All right, ladies and gentlemen, who passed the executive law that allowed the implementation of the law in Croatia to be carried out in the whole of the European Union without a judicial verdict. HDZ and Jadranka Kosor and it was a disaster, during the night more than 100,000 people ended up in a blockade literally. And did you, when you came to power, do anything to change that? You didn't, but you allowed the public notebooks to carry out the executions instead of the courts. So for the citizens who are blocked, who won't receive Christmas this year, and ladies and gentlemen, you can't say that you and each other aren't to blame. Then who's to blame? You could say that if you weren't in power, but you were. The people gave you responsibility. You're the one who missed the chance. And that's why the government, or ping-pong ball, has gone back to HDZ. And your goal is to forever pink pong balls return from one side to the other, but more and more people wake up and that time comes to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65397	And the third replica, dear colleague Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65398	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Pernar, since you've invited me here in some way from the pay phone, there's something I need to say about what you were talking about. I must say that I am relatively satisfied with the work of Croatian television at the time of the ironing around the franc and interest. But I can't say I'm satisfied. I can only say that I'm relatively satisfied. What was missing about Croatian TV? Croatian television as a public service lacked something called professional monitoring of the topic. Since in the case of francs and in the case of illegal interest, at least 200,000 families at risk of illegal banking business, Croatian broadcasting did not find it appropriate to find economic legal experts to pay them and to follow the whole situation and to inform the public of the whole situation in a professional independent way, but did all of this in a controversial manner, they called on me, called on some economists, some lawyers so controversially. But they didn't pay one legal economic expert to deal with the problem very seriously. And that's what I resent about Croatian broadcasting, that's what I resent all the TVs, all the radio services, all the media that they didn't pay such a profession to follow the whole situation around francs and illegal interest. That's one big problem. On the other hand, the bank paid its quasi economists and quasi lawyers who then threw spins at the media, who were paid to throw those spins, and the Croatian Radio Television that was paid out of our pockets did not carry out the same situation in the opposite direction but not spins but expert discussions. And that's what I resent about Croatian broadcasting. In future, I expect Croatian broadcasters to pay the profession to monitor such situations, as the Franak Association spent at least 500 thousand kuna on court proceedings in the case of francs in its pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65399	Replication response, colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65400	Dear fellow Alexic, you say they didn't call adequate experts, they didn't pay them, etc. So you know what kind of experts they bring to HRT now? Experts like Ankica Mamic, a convicted con artist who admitted to cheating on HBOR, agreed with the DORH, received 11 months probation, a relative of Zdravko Mamić who worked with him. Those kind of experts? Experts who are willing to come on TV and insult me. No one asks for their credibility. And he won't let me, or the opposite, defend myself. It's a modus operand of HRT. They bring in two or three or five people on a show everyone agrees on. They don't care at all if these people are professional, whether these people are convicted, or what the credibility of these people is. The only criterion is similarity, the only criterion is that they say what the ruling caste wants to hear. It's a sad truth. And as far as the franc problem is concerned, it is due to the fact that there is a currency clause in Croatia at all, and there is because the CNB is a exchange office, not a central bank. It exists because the CNB doesn't lend to the kuna banks, because if it loaned them kunas, then these banks would continue to lend citizens the same kunas without the currency clause. The CNB is already asking the banks of business in Croatia to be in debt outside for foreign currencies. Then these foreign currencies in the CNB turn into kunas and that's why all loans are tied to a more or less currency clause. That's the problem. There's no talking about that problem on HRT. And all their god-awful experts who come financially say yes, it's good for Croatia that the CNB is a currency exchange. Yeah, it's a good thing money is a debt, it's a good thing money only comes from credit, it's a good thing the state can't finance itself from a central bank and depends on the loans of banks that actually rule the state. And what an expert you have to be for that. It doesn't have to be too big of a head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65401	This is what we came to the end of the debate. I am concluding the debate and voting on amendments to one committee. Please let us vote. I find that with 77 votes for, 1 abstention, 15 against the accepted amendment of the committee, it becomes an integral part of the draft decision. I am voting on the amendment of the second committee now. Please, let's vote. I also find that this amendment has received the required number of votes, most, 85 for, 9 abstentions, and it becomes an integral part of the motion for a decision. The amendments were also submitted by the SDP representative club. I would like to ask the representative of the motionor, the respected Andrija Mikulić, president of the Committee on Information, Information and Media to show that amendments have been submitted. We have four amendments to the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65402	Amendment 1. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Information, Information and Media Committee does not accept the proposed amendment because the proposed candidate was appointed in the previous mandate of the HRT Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65403	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65404	Mr. President, please, just before that, a procedural explanation of our amendment No. 3. Since it's in Amendment No. 3. proposed that Mr. Kunschtek be replaced and that he is an amendment to the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65405	Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65406	Where's Mr. Kunschtek, that no. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65407	Kunschtek is no. 2, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65408	Will he be voted on? Whether there are procedural options to vote on Amendment No. Two? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65409	What you want me to do, it depends on your... the request. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65410	I'd like to vote on Amendment No. 2 and in that case, Amendment 1, 3, 4 would withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65411	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65412	Okay, I'm asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65413	But let's take it in a row. First, let's go to Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65414	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65415	He's pulling. Now let's go to Amendment No. 2. Comrade Mikulić, please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65416	Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65417	Thank you. Mr. President, I'm asking for a vote because I think the opposition has the right to only propose its candidate and that's Mr. Grgic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65418	Okay. We need to think about this situation now. Okay. This amendment shall be rejected by the applicant. So we're voting on an amendment that we reject. He didn't get that amendment, either. He needed a number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65419	Same explanation as the last two.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65420	We withdraw Amendment No. 3 and No. And we're looking for a 10 minute break so the club can decide how to vote on the overall proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65421	Okay. I'll take a break by 1:00, how about 20? That's nine minutes. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65422	... to talk about Christmases that don't pay off the blocked. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you. You must allow it, sir, if they're looking for it, so am I.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65423	Okay, okay. It's 1:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13,20 HOURS]] The first is for a break, for discussion after a break from the SDP representative club, respected counterpart Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65425	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. After deciding on the amendments and forming a final proposal for a Decision on the selection of members of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board, the SDP Club discussed the emerging situation and I want to inform you of our position, and he is next. We cannot put ourselves in a position to vote on a proposal for a decision to elect members of the HRT Supervisory Board in which only representatives of the ruling majority are. After the ruling majority rejected the proposal, the only proposal, so which was clearly formulated as the opposition's proposal, denied the opposition's right to autonomously determine who would be their representative. On the other hand, we have confirmed by voting for the amendment, the second amendment of the Committee on Information, Information and Media that we accept which candidates are the parliamentary majority. However, we cannot vote against the motion for a decision to elect members of the HRT Supervisory Board, as voting against would challenge the right of the majority to propose their three. That is why we have decided that we will not participate in the decision-making of members of the Croatian Supervisory Board, that is, when we are choosing only representatives of the ruling majority, let only the ruling majority do so. I also use this time that I have left to wish all my colleagues and fellow MPs and citizens a happy Christmas and a happy new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65426	Second debate of respected colleagues Ivan Pernar, The Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65427	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you in what way will you congratulate Christmas 330,000 citizens who have been blocked? You probably don't know that. You may not be interested in that, but 330,000 blocked citizens, or anyone who receives a Christmas card, and everyone who has the right to a Christmas card, and the blocked are not going to receive it. Why? Because the Christmas card is being paid into an unprotected account. The solution to this problem is very simple. The solution is that either the Christmas card is paid in cash to them or to allow its payment to a protected account. However, you don't care about those blocked citizens because they don't seem to have the right to celebrate Christmas, or for them Christmas joy, or Christmas time should not be embellished with Christmas. I think you've turned your back on them with that act and that kind of policy. But what's most embarrassing is that there's not a single SDP representative or GLAS sitting in the House right now. Why? And the HDZ gentlemen are here. So you HDZ guys are at least ready to hear it, and the SDP gentlemen don't want to hear it, and they don't want to hear why? Because they obviously don't care about Christmas for those people. They don't care that the blocked citizens won't get a Christmas card, and as far as you're concerned, the HDZ gentlemen, please make this the last Christmas for the blocked without a Christmas card. Here, please from the heart. And I don't understand why you're indifferent, why don't you say, why don't you do something about it? So you have all the instruments, you have absolute power. You've got these people on the remote control that without a stomach cramp they'll squeeze in. But obviously there's no will. And that's why I have to say from this pay phone that when the Living Wall came to power, he asked Mr. Rainer what it would look like. One of the things that will be, and in fact, there won't be any problem with those blocked citizens. But we'll put the order and put it in and in whatever case someone ends up blocked to receive the Christmas card either in cash or in a secure account. There, dear blocked citizens, Merry Christmas to you!
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65428	Okay. I'd like my colleagues and colleagues to sit down, take their seats. Please, just a little patience, some more MPs are coming. I guess they misjudged that the breaks would take longer, so please just a few more minutes. Okay, first we'll check the quorum so please sign in. We have a quorum and we can approach the vote. So I just want to point out that the Croatian Parliament appoints members of the HRT Supervisory Board to the majority of the votes of all MPs pursuant to Article 22(1). The law on Croatian television, so 76 votes. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. Please, let's vote. I find that it is unanimous with 77 votes for the decision to appoint members of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board in the text as proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Dear MPs and MPs, I hereby conclude the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament. I use the opportunity to congratulate and wish you a happy Christmas and a happy and successful new year to you personally and members of your families. Let me also, in your name and in my name, give my sincerest congratulations to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to all those who regularly follow us around the world. We will continue with the work on 17 January 2018, and now I invite you to a traditional gathering together with employees of the Croatian Parliament and media representatives. Thanks again. Session closed at 13.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65429	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.45 HOURS]] We now have a report on the operation of HRT for 2014 and 2015 and a report on the work of the Programme Council for 2015 and 2016. Since the topics are similar, the promoters are the principal director, or... Director-General of HRT and HRT Programme Council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As informed as I am in agreement with the clubs, we propose a united debate. I hope no one's against it. Thank you very much. So, we move to the agenda points - Report on HRT's operations for 2014, for 2015 and - Report on the work of the Croatian Programme Council on the implementation of the programme principles and obligations of the HRT and established by the Law on HRT, the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Radio and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2016 the discussion was conducted by the relevant Committee on Information and Information and Media. The government delivered an opinion. I ask the representatives of the applicant, first Mr. Director-General Kazimir Bačić, to present a Business Report for 2014/2015. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65430	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. I will now brief you on the business of HRT for 2014 and 2015 In 2014 a financial result of HRK 34.7 million was achieved, which was used to further cover the transferred losses from the early periods and to resolve the inherited negative balance of HRT. Total revenue of HRT in 2014 They reached 1.397 billion kuna, which is 0.8 less than planned, and by 1.1% less than in 2013. These revenues consisted of public revenues, which ranged from monthly tax revenue and commercial revenues stretching through advertising revenues, which increased by 0.4% over the period compared to the year before. But compared to the planned, the realization was less than 11.7%. Other business revenues, accounting for a decline of 27.5% compared to the performance in 2013. And more realization by 14.4 than planned. Speaking of expenses. The expenditures amount to a billion and 162 million kuna, and they are 0.7% lower compared to 2013 and 2.8% less than planned. Within the expenditure we pointed out the movement of salary costs and other incomes, which were 5.2% less than achieved in 2013 and 3.4% higher than planned, resulting from the start-up process of restructuring, labour costs, implementation of early and old retirement programmes, for workers who acquired such legal conditions. In total, 286 workers left and 33 million kunas of severance were paid. At that time, on 31.12.2014, the number of permanent employees in HRT was 3066. Which is 255 workers less than 2013. The most significant changes in the HRT balance sheet are that the current value of long-term assets is increased, resulting from investments, and the purchase of software content and immaterial property, in accordance with the accounting policies Regulation. It has also come to note that there has been a structural change in obligations as a result of the implementation of the refinancing and reprogramming of credit commitments. Credit liabilities in total have been increased by 63 million kuna. The additional one was financed by the payment of the incentive severance and investment totalling 86 million kuna. In line with the financial plan, 88 investment projects worth 65 million kuna were realised, representing a realisation of 83.7%. What is important to say is that investments in modern technology facilities and equipment of all manufacturing technology segments have been started, modern mobile technology, re-skilled study technique have been completed, upgrades of automatic, automated broadcasting systems are completed, and as part of the experimental service, HRT is also available to all HRT content to be made available through computer and mobile platforms, OTT. These are the main features in 2014 so I would, if I could continue with 2015 which is the next point. So in short, I would like to say that in 2015 a profit of 18.3 million kuna was achieved, revenues were realised from a billion and 399 million kuna, which is 1.2% lower than the plan compared to 2014. On the other hand, total expenditures have been achieved by billions and 381 million kuna and are 2.1% lower than the plan. As part of the expenditure, we would highlight the cost of salaries and other incomes which are less than those achieved in the previous year and more than planned, which is largely the result of the process of restructuring labour costs and the implementation of the early and old retirement programme for workers who have acquired legal conditions. On 31 December 2015, the number of permanent employees was 2890 employees, which was actually 176 workers less than in the previous year. The reduction in the number of workers and the resulting cost of salaries was partly cancelled through an increase in external co-operation. So it was a negative effect of this work that increased significant external cooperation or external co-operation costs. Direct external costs of production of the programme were lower than in 2014 for only 17 million kuna, as expected in 2014 is a steam year and these are years of major sports events such as the Olympics and football. It is usually a characteristic of all steam years to change the cost structure for the program, for the production of the programme. In the context of technological restructuring, HRT made certain investment investments and launched all planned investments that it realised in that year with 50 million kuna while the realisation of the rest of the planned funds was transferred in 2016. In addition, a total of 153.2 million kuna was planned in the context of investment in capital or immaterial assets and there was an increase in investment compared to 2014 and a total of 58.4 million kuna was contracted from independent producers in their own production of capital works, 15 million kuna was invested. To finance significant investment investments launched, HRT was additionally in debt for 50 million kuna. Also, the realisation of investments, I said, was in 2016, so it was transferred to the next year by the main payment of 100 million, the credit debt was reduced by 56 million kuna compared to the previous year. What is important to emphasise is that in the finalisation of books in 2015, with the support of independent auditors, accounting policies have been changed. And a more conservative policy has been applied and there has been an increase in the costs and costs transferred related to the duties. It is also reduced and reduced payment of outstanding claims from 365 days to 180 so that it is reduced to the maturity of the claims charged. Here I have mostly tried to present in the shortest because there is extensive material which detailed all these facts and figures analysis, but I have tried to give a review in the shortest lines these two years, so 2014 and 2015. I must stress that these are all the data that I found because it was far before my term of office. I am also saying that what I have stated is what I have contributed to showing the current financial position of HRT and that it ensures in the long term, while continuing these trends, an increase in the financial stability and security of HRT's business in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65431	I'd like to thank the esteemed headmaster of HRT, please sit down, we'll move on. I now call upon the representative of the HRT Programme Council Mr. Zdravko Kedžu to give us an explanation of the report on the work of the HRT programme council, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65432	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State and distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I'm glad we haven't caught the crash in 2018 so that these reports will be three years old, believing that this will not be presented in the future. Not only is it because you have a duty to defend the reports more popularly, although it is also an inappropriate term that you have not even written, and of course it does not justify the fact that you are exporting them, but because it would be much more relevant and it seems to me more meaningful for the bodies that I represent here, so the president of the programming council on behalf of all colleagues and colleagues from the programming board as a body who, by law, has a duty to defend the public and to represent the interests of the Croatian Parliament has chosen, so somehow it seems convenient to me, I sincerely hope that this will be at a more spottable level, which, at some level, can be discussed problems and possibly some proposals. In view of the overall circumstances, I will not mention the time and duration I will try to present several groups of problems with one note that the Programme Council does not normally deal with whether or not it will be liked and whether it will be seen classified in the section plus or minus neither the shows nor the editors. One reason for this is the principled attitude to discuss the quality of all programmes, and another attitude stems from the place and roles that the Programme Council has. So in these principled programming bases and their quality or non-quality, I'm going to say a few baskets or a group of problems. One of them is difficult to protect and defend and represent public interests through a body selected in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia in the way it is regulated in the current Law on HRT in which the Programme Council to which I chair all decisions taken cannot be referred to anyone in such a way as to become mandatory. All comments, proposals and examinations of the Programme Council which are relatively frequent and numerous represent only a recommendation, but it does not oblige anyone. You must know a lot better than I do that this whole story from the 2012 government administration about which both the place and the role of the Programme Council were made in such a way that it is difficult to expect the Programme Council to then be responsible for certain programming content. Of course, it doesn't exude him from the need to discuss them and propose, but at the level of efficiency it's not exactly a very special meaningful activity. Another package of problems I would like to say about in this two-year report is a kind of organisational and institutional crisis that I would say on HRT, in some ways it is still going to take place, and hopefully it will end up here with these appointments at the end and the Supervisory Committee in which it will not happen that the body that I chaired in front of me has every session or at least every other new person responsible for the programmes. So, you have one series of editors with prefixes of the performer's duties, behavioral duties all the way to the level of management of the entire house and it takes too long and too long. It is difficult to take away the impression and I find it justified to show regret about it, and it is particularly difficult not to say that it was impossible for it to have had no impact on the achievement of programmes and software content. So I sincerely hope that this type of crisis at the level of programme editors, management mechanisms, but then everything else within the house will be wiped out by some continuity, constants, so that what is the basis in this part of the Programme Council corresponds to be able to meet. I will remind myself of the legal provision of the Programme Council's obligations except for the one I said at the beginning to protect and promote public interests is to monitor the contract to meet obligations with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the only most important task on which the work of the Programme Council is needed and downgraded is to meet public service, contracts with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Experiences with this contract until a few months ago have shown that in one part he was poorly engaged, so the work of Croatian radiotelevision was reduced to meeting the percentages, so if you lacked two percent in the educational program, then you invented a new cooking show, so you called it a cooking school, so you put it into the educational program. I sincerely believe that the contract with the Government, which was brought together a few months ago by the joint work and effort in which this Programme Council took part, is much better, more flowful and will have much more meaningful provisions to fulfil its obligations to the Government. I remind you that contract is five years old, he's not for one term. And I sincerely hope that its flow and purpose will allow better monitoring of the Programme Council and the Croatian Parliament, of course, about whether Croatia is fulfilling its contracts with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But it is also important for me, on behalf of the Programme Council of my colleagues and colleagues, to say my personal name, to warn if I from this place, that this does not mean that the role of HRT is to fulfill the wishes and orders of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that it is not understood from fulfilling and monitoring the obligations to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to say a few more sentences as a man who spent his life in the media as a lecturer of media colleges, as someone who's a doctor of information science and communicology. Croatian broadcasting is not only television, and I believe that no one will be angry with the remark that it is constantly talking about HTV as HRT. There is a Croatian radio on HRT. I don't know if it's appropriate for me to say on a personal level that sometimes I think it's a better part of the house. Is there even a little subjective on my part? I'm sure he does. But HRT is much more than just HTV, and I don't think sometimes it's even correct for many colleagues and colleagues who work on some other platforms that HRT includes some other segments, HRT that produce and something other than Dnevnik. This also applies to conversations in which the whole story does not end on Croatian Radio but on TV, and then, apart from television, it ends only on the information programme. I certainly don't belong to those I think the information program is the only thing HRT has to do. I do not think that HRT exists because of the Dnevnik, nor because of the report from the Parliament, I even think that it is explicit and brilliantly written in various legal provisions, and even in this current Law on HRT, which I think is all the worst, which is both education and culture and a small million other tasks that HRT must fulfil except for the journal and other information program. I will make a few more general remarks that have led the Programme Council in two years which have been the subject and item of the agenda gave no positive opinion on meeting the role of HRT towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia or according to the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Some of the most important issues why the Programme Council did not give a positive opinion within two years on whether HRT fulfilled those obligations under the contract with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Most of the problem group comes from another body appointed by the Programme Council, which is the service commissioner, i.e. the Commissioner for our users, viewers, listeners, etc. Among these groups of problems, several with prefixes are "no", unobstruction, unprofessionalism and illiteracy. In that sense, I think HRT has a lot of work ahead of him. This illiteracy refers to illiteracy in terms of the Croatian literary language that has become, it has become a place where children should tend not to listen to bad speech on HRT, I will not call out if it has ever been learned and HRT has resources that could and should enable it. The other kind of illiteracy is part of media illiteracy, they're something of a broader context, so I'm not going to elaborate now. Irregularity and unprofessionalism in some way in the same basket should come to the notion that facts and events are sacred and that comments are potentially free. But in this case, if there is anything we think would be an important project or reach in the future work of a public service. Then it is that it is not possible that depending on which reporter from the event is more difficult to guess who he is. A situation that depends on which person makes a contribution to what show. You will recognize all sorts of beliefs, belongings and views. If there is a place, I think as a lecturer that it is not a feature and should not be a single public worker in terms of media intermediaries without telling the press. But if there's a place where it's never supposed to happen, then it's HRT. And I personally think that in this sense it is necessary to do very much and that it is one of the most important tasks of HRT as a public service. And one more thing I'd like to mention for the end. Is HRT seen or not seen? And I'd like to add whether she's been heard or not because I haven't heard it here many times today. I think it would be correct and should say how, there's a kind of mild hypocrisy. When someone commenting on that story says it's important to him that it's the most visible in another case, they'll say it doesn't matter whether it's seen or not, it's important that it's quality. Can we do each other? I hope that it can, you know, in the ideal world to be of great quality, to respect everything called public service obligations to all citizens and citizens of this country and to the general Croatian public but on the other hand not to run for ratings and profits. The only purpose of the fee would ultimately be to ensure that you do good programs and that they may not be on the market just as easily sold. So it ensures that you do both education and culture that you can't just sell and everything else easily. Only to deal with whether or not it's being watched, whether it's being listened or not, it doesn't seem complete to me and to the end correct. I find it difficult to realize HRT as a public service to the fact that it must be the most visible because it is then given characteristics and evaluates HRT's work because otherwise it really makes sense to discuss what the fee and participation of citizens in financing is if it can be done and if the programmes are intended for the only market and only to be liked by everyone, although I don't know how and how it is achieved. Does this mean if it smells like demagogy, the guy, so it doesn't matter, the main thing is to do good and quality programs, so we shouldn't really care if it's anyone watching. Of course not. Well, you can't produce and do anything and HRT produces a lot of things without anyone looking at it. But to insist on the fact that it's a race with commercial media seems to me deplaced and I don't think it's on the best track in what's the place and the role of public service. Here were some groups of problems that were very often discussed at the meetings of the Programme Council. I will only say for the end, the place and role of the Programme Council is something which, I sincerely hope, will be the subject of debate in this House and possibly in some other public places and spaces. I hope that it will be in the strength of the programming council as a body that protects and promotes the interests of the entire public and within the house there is indeed a need and space to strengthen something that could ultimately be called media and all sorts of other literacy, professionalism and objectivity that should be adorned by almost every media and in this case, regardless of what I am president of the Programme Council, I mean on behalf of all, what should be declared something called a Croatian public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65433	I would like to thank the president of the HRT Programme Council Dr. Zdravko Keji for this report for 2015, 2016. We have one replica of the presentation of the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television, Mr. Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65434	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, here you have heard the discussion of the work of the Supervisory Board and now I am interested in this brief address about your financial report for 2014, 2015. And whether the commercial audit revised this financial report. So that's one question. If she audited it, whether it was the auditor's report discussed by the Supervisory Board and whether the Supervisory Board, the director, provided it to his reports to whoever needs it for a reason, for a little reason I'm going to jump out of this context, but listening to Mr. Kedge's debate, I think, unfortunately, more than once in this House, we're also directing the story to HRT in some direction that shouldn't be the way it is, because it would simply have to be shared what anyone is doing, which is responsible for who it is. Because if we have appointed someone to do something, then we must know clearly and expect from him what he must produce for us. Because what the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council are doing is something that, therefore, their work is a product that they present to this High House, and this High House then sees whether spending money is the way it should be, whether it should be as much as it is or must be reduced. Because in the end, according to the HRT Act and the contract signed by HRT, the government is basically also determining the height of the RTD subscription, in fact, the fee. Because in the end, it defines how much what the government expects from HRT and whether it is within the limits of this because it should be increased or reduced by a RTV subscription. So, one very complex and complex question, but given the debate that it was and who you would simply have to answer, so whether it was an audit and whether it was discussed by the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65435	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. Mr. Kazimir Bačić, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65436	I would like to say since it is 2014 and 2015 this report has been made according to all the information available to me. I would like to emphasise when you spoke about the contract with the Government, of course that the contract between HRT and the Government defines all parameters, as well as the scope of the programme, the type of programme and ultimately the financial framework. Here for this period that we are talking about has been in force so far with the government that is in effect until 31.12 this year and I would just like to add that this contract, some difficulties have been observed and the contract has been made new. Therefore, a new contract has recently been signed that regulates the following five-year period, i.e. in the next five-year period in terms of programme commitments, in terms of the type of programme to be produced for certain money defined as a tax and defined by the HRT Act. And as for the previous reports, I think Mr. Kejo said in his report that the contract with, that the report on the fulfillment of the contract with the Government was gone, so this is, the financial reports went through the Commercial Audit and the State Audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65437	I would like to thank the esteemed Director-General of Croatian Radio Television for his reply. Now we move on to replicas for the president of Mr. Kedjo's Programme Council. We have three replicas. The first came from a respected colleague, Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65438	Dear Vice President, Mr. Kejo, I must admit it's been a pleasure listening to you and I'm glad you mentioned what you said and listen and watch it is HRT. So three radio programs if I'm not mistaken, four television programs, and what we've been up against here to HRT was that information program, that's one part of the information program. That's how we look at the whole picture and three radio and four television programs, I think that we, like the Parliament, or MPs in the Parliament and the public can be generally satisfied. But I've said it before, there's always some things that can change. I'm glad you noticed the question of language. Here is often something that stabs us in the ears of the accent, words that should not be used, are not used in the standard Croatian language, and often we hear them even in the shock shows I dare say, and there are ways and tools and people who can correct it, or who can educate. And here I am, probably going to give up my final debate because in the previous debate I was already saying what I was supposed to say, but here I would point out that HRT is a place or medium through which the authorities in this case will be helped by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement some of the measures that are crucial to the survival of our country and people. We're talking about demographic politics here. Unfortunately, such a show, I don't watch too much television, but as far as I'm concerned, I don't see the shows of that profile. I don't see the shows that talk about universal values that have a consensus, shows that talk about family, that talk about community, that talk about giving in prime time when it's supposed to be. So I think there's this one valuable part, the universal part that we have a consensus about that needs to be a little bit more representative. And I will repeat this demographic part to use this public television for the demographic recovery of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65439	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. The answer to my dear colleague, Kejo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65440	Dear fellow MP, the thematic session of the HRT programme council, I guess in February, I can't guarantee, it's being prepared, it was announced two months ago, we had some more recent stories, so we delayed it, it will be dedicated to the use of Croatian literary language on HRT, but there will be talks about others, and the use of other languages that the law also envisioned in the use of both Croatian radio and Croatian television. It will be a thematic session, a conclusion, a unique whole council. I can answer you from this place, that in the programming scheme, it's not exactly, until the end of the agenda point, but in the programming scheme that will be next year, it's one of the constant shows, which will always be a show dedicated to demographics and I can tell you somewhere on that trail, how we sincerely hope that the programming council and my smallness that it will not be made in a way that stands on Bregana and numbers the number of entry and exits. Because me or we don't think it's really the only problem, or that demographic issues, that way they need to be conscious. It's actually some paradigm, as we normally think, that some other social problems and phenomena should be treated, not at this level, the type of entry and exit, but in some higher, more sophisticated, and the way I spoke. If we could say that professionalism reigns in Croatian radio and Croatian television programmes, then of course it means more views from different sides, selection and guests at certain relevant levels, etc. etc. However, as much as you mentioned it, once again pointed out, no one thinks, challenge, place and role and the importance of the information program. I wouldn't speculate here right now, probably on some other open public panels, I'll talk about kidnapping something. Whether we're over-sufficient with the information program, maybe not even politics, how much politics and stuff, but it's a topic for some other conversations. But I certainly belong to those who think that the information programme is not and should not be the only and most important programme of Croatian radio and Croatian television. It's not regulated by law, but neither the place nor the role of public service is anywhere in the world to do so, so I hope it won't be ours either. Yeah, it's important, but it can't be crucial and it can't be the only one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65441	Thank you for your response. Next replica, respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65442	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Kejo to you, I give you the replica, you have pointed out among other things and talked about the extent to which the provisions of the contract with the Government are fulfilled, and you have stressed very well that fulfilling these contracts is not an obligation to meet the government's wishes. However, you, among the lines, as I read it, spoke very critically about how, to what extent and how they are fulfilled, the obligations of the treaty with the government. Because HRT as public television cannot and must not serve the government, but must serve all Croatian citizens, since it is financed by citizens. So I'm curious, to what extent, you consider HRT to have been public television in these two years, how much was your programming report, which gave citizens, objective, fair, independent and incompatible information, which is their obligation. Or to simplify the question, whether at HRT when it comes to journalists, there is indeed freedom of public word and freedom of expression. Or to be even more specific, I think HRT is a very free television, but it's being done by unfree journalists, who can't ask questions, if these questions won't answer the Prime Minister or don't give God a rector, then they'll friendly warn them, that is, by firing them from where they work. And can you explain to me how that public television, such as HRT, still doesn't have a research journalism department? So is it possible that our public television is unable to form a research journalism department that would objectively, honestly, independently and impartially address all the burning issues of life in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65443	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for the replica. The answer to Mr. Zdravko Kejo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65444	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I would very much like to, as a man who loves to deal with this endlessly, at some other levels to speak personally of what you have asked. But there is one whole set of 2/3 of questions that you have asked, which thanks to the Law on HRT, which is current, the programming council, neither discuss nor deal with it, nor is it allowed by law. What I personally think about, I would very much like to talk to you about, but not here and not now and that is not what the programming council is even allowed to do. So, the program council, there's no authority to talk... Whether a lip is wrongly spent or not on whether any editor is bad or good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is the organization of HRT involved in any department, including research journalism, in any other, business, programming or other organisation? The program council has nothing to do with it. The Programme Council is in accordance with these provisions, the council which comments and only those observed, heard, emanated software content and takes certain views on which it does not commit to it. For all of this, I would very much like to get involved in the talks, about freedom, about freedom, about the role. What I have mentioned and which, therefore, I may say, is that there is an understanding of the place and role, of the public service in relation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, the contract with the government of the Republic of Croatia, a legal category, and it is never even a wish-fulfilment. And you should never be. It's a simple and legal provision. Like, let me be allowed one digression, not a contract between subscribers and HRTs, that's not a contract, like when you sign the water line, so that's why you're a delivery man of 20 cc's of water. That's not it either. That would give you a lot to talk about. There's also a guilty perception, if I'm paying you a fee, otherwise I'm not an employee of HRT, so I'm not paid, I'm paying the same fee. Well, then you to me, so be sure to deliver what I paid for and order. That's not the relationship either. There's a lot of awkwardness. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm sorry I'm here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65445	Thank you, Mr. Kejo, we have a Rules of Procedure in the Croatian Parliament, in time, so we have to stick to it. We move on to the next line, respected colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65446	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Kejo, representatives of the ministry, secretary of state, chief director. I welcome you. Since the topic is the Report of the Programme Council, then you should say, of course something about the program. But you'd be surprised if you heard the information that how many of our citizens don't really distinguish the role of the programming council from the supervisory board. There is no difference between the Law on HRT, the Law on Electronic Media, and they have to distinguish it. And they don't understand what this report is for, if the council is called the program council? And formally legal on behalf of him is a program name. Then we would expect some more concrete mechanisms related to control, or control, or something that is not only suggestive and not just advisory. However, it was obviously missing, because of some of our legitimacy as it is. Well, now it's a question that is soundly reasonable and reasoned. Is it time to change the legal legislation in Croatia, media legislation, regarding the functions of the supervisory board and the functions and roles of the programme council? So in general, the Law on HRT, i.e., in general, this whole media space, since everything that could have been involved, got involved with us. So, we had the chance to make HRT successful television, but unfortunately, it became a case in many segments. And now everything, in a way, connected to each other, and in fact they're not clear about that distinction, they're clear to me, they're clear to those in this problem. However, you have now said in your presentation that you do not actually have quality mechanisms, which are related to the programme, and you are a program council. So the question is whether it's time to change the legislation and change it specifically by those good models to take the best and learn from other people's mistakes as well as our own.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65447	I would like to thank my colleague, Petriyevcan. The answer to Mr. Zdravko Kejo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65448	Thank you very much, very briefly, since I did last time, I apologize, for that, I oversolde... I think that time didn't come, but what you can say at these levels is 5 behind 12. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I mean, first of all, the total media legislation, and then the HRT Act. And two, I sincerely hope, that there's a thought that's not even my own, maybe on some other panels, I'll be able to say something more, to find a good model, how public service does it to the public. Good model. In doing so, I don't... Now for nothing concrete. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I think we should find him and that if we don't get angry, I don't know, if it's allowed for me to be allowed, I don't think there's a place where we can find that model, and if the public service is public, it can be found outside of this assembly. I don't know where else that could be, in, of course, including the widest possible public debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65449	I thank Professor Keji for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, would you like an additional explanation? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAG, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65450	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. Today we have a united debate on Croatian Reports for 2014 and other years, 2015. And right at the beginning, I'm going to say, the main content of the living wall's attitude, and that's that we're not going to accept this report. Surely one of the reasons why we won't accept it is the quality of the program, but it's not the key. The quality of the program, the ratings or the ratings, however we define things, would still be discussed. But what can't be debated is that public television in Croatia is being financed by an inhuman model, funding, and on the other hand, that the impact of politics on HRT or HTV is too high, too high. It's very easy to elaborate this condition, these, therefore, my claims. First of all, I have not met the only person who is satisfied with the situation in the house where he works. I guess even these four guests who are here, they're not happy with what's going on on public television, first of all. Indeed, the employees themselves, HRT talk about a number of abuses, about a number of NGOs on HRT, talk about numerous benefits, talk about a number of ridiculous situations even absurd, and we see them at Parliament's door, I don't know, to come three, four HRT teams one after the other. We see, among other things, that on HRT, it is recorded in a very strange way, that they produce journalists or some invest years, years of work, even decades, then deny them, they go to other televisions. On those other TVs, they're successful. It partially deny this exposure, which we've heard, that as commercial television, they're steaming, public television. In fact, we could say in the conflict between former employees and current employees. With these exes obviously more successful than they are right now. It's really amazing, let's say one new television with 330 employees has more ratings than the HTV that has so, all together 2900 minutes or that RTL, somewhere here, and there are 240 employees. So it's not a problem how many employees there are or how much money there is or how many commercial programs there are, but obviously the problems are somewhere else. We have a situation that Croatia must pay 128 euros an annual TV subscription. That's more than it pays in Italy. It's almost as much as paying a subscription to the BBC, which is the most successful TV in the world that produces a fantastic program, which buys all the TV in the world and most interestingly, there's not one minute of advertising. On HRT you have six hours of commercials you can watch until, say, commercials don't exist at all in Germany, Denmark, Finland. They've been in Finland for four minutes. They're gone in France. HRT has 1.4 billion kuna incomes, most of which it takes to Croatian citizens, and in one he would dare say, indeed, the beastly way. The fact that law firms who cooperate with HRT are doing so goes beyond any limit of common sense. If we had a million and 200 thousand subscribers and a million completed these same subscribers, it's practically 75 to 80% of people who have to pay actually a subscription to the receiver and not a subscription to the program, they have problems paying the HRT. And then these same citizens are handed over to lawyers who, on their 200, 300 kuna subscription, charge 1100, 1500 and more kunas for legal expenses, block and then bulldoze them for years and decades won't let them live properly. I'll tell you one case, there are gentlemen here to hear it. Let's say you get to know the case of Mr. Drazen Hammer from Strukovec, from Međimurje County. He's disabled and his wife is 100% disabled, has multiple sclerosis, to be completely direct. Under the law, they should be exempt from paying the HRT subscription. Mr. Hammer has a pension of $583, $583, gentlemen. Of those 583 kunas, it is his lawyer's company that your HRT fee takes 194 kunas a month and remains less than 400 kuna. And he's disabled and his wife's disabled. And it's 100%. He wrote the complaint, of course he wrote but since he had no lawyer, had no influence, had no HDZ membership card, his complaint was rejected as technically incorrect, illegal. And then he keeps paying and he'll pay as long as he's alive for your HRT subscription. When I remember him and remember him because he lives very close to me, I simply in no way but in no way can I raise my hand for your report. Because at your house, this director sitting here has a salary of 42,000 kuna. Like two Plenkovics. On the back of the citizen Hammer. So what is not truly the ultimate act of inhumanity and human not solidarity? And there are as many as you want, you know. They write to me now, they write to me all day, women, pensioners. I had a retirement case called Jovanovic, lives in the village of Pribislavec, also in Međimurje County, met me on the street and first cried for 10 minutes, so I asked him why you were crying, you can finally tell me, says Marijan Hanžekovic, I don't know what to do, took my entire pension and everything I had on my account, I lost my kuna. No matter what, I don't think you're ultimately HRT employees to blame, of course, it's primarily a guilty state that simply allows such a model of financing and such a model to charge first of all. For this reason, yesterday in the Living Wall, we submitted a legislative proposal that payment of HRT fees should be completely abolished and that from now on, public television should be financed by budget money, that 0.7% of the budget should be allocated for public television purposes. This is not unusual, if anyone thinks because they usually think that everything that the Living Wall suggests has no foothold in practice, but the same model you have in Romania since 1 February, so no one has to pay the HRT fee but will be financed by public television and state, and most importantly, if the funding binds to the percentage, you will ultimately have more resources than you have now. Political influence, how was HRT Director elected? That's Mr. Muffin, isn't it? You all saw when the vote was here. The vote was at 1 o'clock, we didn't know who the candidate was until 3:30. Even HDZ representatives didn't know who the candidate was. At half one they suddenly found out who the candidate was, came a résumé here which is a qualification, the gentleman is in a family relationship I don't know with and that's why they need to vote him and some of the HDZs, their majority raised their hand, some of them didn't even, they were honored, but so they voted. I have nothing against Mr. Bačić himself, but for me, it was an example of how in Croatia, some kind of public service put people on. In a conversation with HRT employees when I ask them how it is now on HRT, they say the HRT administration is not deciding anything. That's not my opinion, I'm just telling you what people who are being told better than me say. We also have examples that this public television is being misused to advertise a party, that some parties are being persistently Stigmatised, that they are not being allowed to open up space. Here we've seen these latest polls, the way they show up at Stalin's time, you know when Stalin got into a fight with Trotsky, then all the pictures where he was standing with Trotsky cut him out. So in these polls, I don't know the popularity of parties or the popularity of politicians. When some Croatian Trotsky shows up, they cut him out. Those are the methods. It was usually Mao Ce-tung in that top master. But there are also, and not only in this information programme, but in general there are numerous gaps that simply, strongly, greatly undermine the reputation of HRT in public and it is not only measured by ratings, it is measured by an increasing number of TV receptions. Because people are more willing to give up television entirely than to be forced to pay HRT fees, or programs that do not want to watch. What the gentleman mentioned on HTV no longer speaks Croatian is also definitely true. HTV used to be a term, so expressions, he had employed phonetics, lecturers, top experts. Today you can hear not only different dialects, slangs, aliens but literally the language of the street. The worst part is that those political structures that abuse public television for their own breakthroughs don't even manipulate budget money here. They are essentially manipulating citizens' money, so direct to the money that citizens pay to HRT, and it has already become so obvious that there is no need to discuss it anymore. In short, HRT needs major and deep reforms, and this reform will be seen through several parameters. The first to change the model of funding, the second to reduce the number of ads to the measure that exists in other countries of the European Union and the third to reduce the impact of politics to a minimum, i.e. that all parties, all people, all individuals, all social events get their space on HRT or terms in which they can say what they think. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65451	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. We have one replica of respected colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65452	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm going to react very briefly given that several inaccuracies have been made. So we need to talk here in the Parliament and what's wrong and what's good and of course the theme is to talk about it and we can feel responsible. I personally don't feel responsible for what wasn't good in some previous times on HRT because I absolutely didn't participate in any operations. But that's why I feel responsible for what's being said here in the assembly, for those facts and for what's relevant. And what are the facts? Well, just before, a colleague from a party from which a colleague spoke something that would be characterized as a dictatorship. So, if I wrote it correctly, he said I'd support the Supervisory Board if you move Stankovic. If it were up to me, I'd put it away. So what we're talking about here is that there are rulers on HRT who are independent of political options. We can't talk about collective responsibility for anything, for a war crime, or the situation on HRT, or at least the collective responsibility of one party. So it's a completely wrong finding. And it's not the state's fault like you said, it's the individual's fault. Why individuals did not manage public well - being in the way they needed to examine it, and we need to examine it. Therefore, if your party were to win power by chance, it wouldn't be anarchy as some think, it would be a dictatorship that's much worse, and we've witnessed it a little earlier. I almost couldn't believe what I was hearing. And now after a few minutes you're talking exactly the opposite. It's really dangerous for all those who think what you're saying is serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65453	I thank my colleague, Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. The answer of my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65454	Thank you very much, dear colleague of Petriyevcanin-Vuxanovic. The Live Wall party has nothing against any journalist or will do anything against any journalist especially on HTV. They do their job the way they do, some a little better, some a little worse, and everyone has a right, so they work towards their conscience. However, this case that you've brought up now, so let's go tell about a legal case. You didn't bring out each other's medals, which is that you personally called that same journalist because he said something on his show and asked this Programme Council and I don't know the director to be fired, to be fenced from him, to not know what drove him away, etc. So, basically you, that's where your representative Culey used to say the same thing 15 minutes ago, that's what he said he needed to be removed, that he wasn't good. So obviously there's a consensus about it, it's not just our kind of thing, and you're obviously trying to transfer it to our party right now, and basically you were involved in it yourself. This report on HRT's work, and I think we can agree that there are problems on that trail that I have cited, which is one model of funding, two reduction of political influence and three restructurings in such a way that, therefore, it is working on quality, that perhaps the number of employees may be smaller, but not necessarily, but that it is actually working that those people, who know, who can, who want, have the opportunity to show their creativity and potentials. And also, so that HRT administration is chosen on the same basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65455	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, for this response to the replica. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac. He's not present, he's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65456	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Deputy Director Bachuc, the esteemed president, the Kejo Program Council, Secretary of State. We're here to discuss, not last year's snow, but snow from three years ago. Reports came in time to the Assembly, but they weren't sent here to discuss themselves in space time. So, we're talking business here, for 2014/2015. Mr. It's Principal Radman's time. So what do we find here? It's a respected principal very correct statement here, very correct. We see that in 2014 HRT achieved a positive financial result, amounting to €34.7 million, that commercial revenues were increased, that total expenditure was reduced compared to 2013, that wage and other income costs were reduced. That the number of permanent HRT employees was reduced by 7.7%, i.e. 255 workers and concluded that HRT had successfully achieved most of the programming and business objectives planned for its work programmes and the financial plan for 2014. We also find out here that at its second session, held on 28 July 2015, the Croatian Supervisory Board adopted an annual financial report for 2014. That the Supervisory Board adopted a report on the operation of HRT in 2014. It was submitted by the Director-General. Similarly for 2015 There's no big difference. HRT earned a profit of 18.3 million kuna, expenditure was lower than planned, HRT made significant investment investments in 2015 and launched all planned purchases and investments. As of 2013-2015, it was saved at HRT 203 million kuna and the number of employees decreased by 15%. When a man reads it, when he hears what's been said very correctly, he wonders, and what the hell did you do to reduce such good leadership? Why, when they were doing so well? And that's what they're writing in those reports, and that's what the supervisory board and the audits at the time accepted, so that was all right. It is, therefore, clear that they have been removed for political, political reasons. My God, that's what happens when HDZ comes to power. We don't have reports here for 2016. And as far as I'm reading, it's been discussed, Mr. Kejo, I guess, the last session of your body. Yeah? We are now at the end of 2017. I wonder why this has not already been discussed and sent to the Croatian Parliament, so that it does not happen, that the Croatian Parliament should discuss this in 2032. It is, however, that at some decent time, we also learn how it was done in 2016. I'm afraid it's done to cover how it was done in 2016. That is, in order not to reveal what the Supervisory Board discovered and informed the Assembly, then the HDZ majority quickly replaced it. And that is, as I said before this afternoon, that on several occasions, the editorial structure of HRT was completely changed, including almost a complete set of editors-in-chiefs on radio and television. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal HRT did not have a director-in-chief, that a television and radio programme was broadcast without a predetermined programming scheme, resulting in requirements for extraordinary rebalancing of the Croatian financial plan. That the purchase of audiovisual works from independent producers in 2016 was made not transparently, without clearly certain criteria, that contracts with these independent producers were signed even before the deadline for a public call, in a public call, was highlighted. So, in short, there were a whole series of numerous, numerous irregularities. I don't know when we're going to have a chance to discuss this, if HDZ decides and currently he decides, I'm afraid that in this term, it won't be discussed, that the truth about this business is 2016. You wouldn't hear. What will be the debate on, or report on the management's business for 2017? I don't know, I don't know, it's a distant future, we're just living in that year, but I know something happened in that administration that hasn't happened before. And it didn't happen in North Korea either. I don't really know where this happened in the world, that the administration has publicly fenced itself from the question of its journalist. Not from the findings, not from the attitudes, but from the questions. The same administration then experienced the fact that the Programme Council was being fenced from that fence, mostly by the votes, by the fence, or by the administration because it was going to be fenced by the question of its journalist. I know that Mr. Kejo was not in favour of the majority's attitude, but apparently there are a number of reasonable people in the Programme Council who have warned the administration that something like this should not be done. I don't have that in any totalitarianism, it's a very dangerous phenomenon, a very embarrassing thing that doesn't just embarrass that administration, which shames the whole country to have public television at all, which is funded by public money and where the administration is being rewarded by the question of its journalist. Now let's talk about these reports of the Programme Council, they're a little more up-to-date for '15 and '16, and I have to say that I agree Mr. Keja has extended it a little bit to the present state and that's good, I thank you for that because it gives us both an opportunity and to say something about your oral exposure. And here with you, dear Mr. Kejo, I fully agree. There's a series of problems, a group of problems. First is total illiteracy. So the guilty accentes, so there's almost no show, there's hardly any news or any show where journalists don't misaccount. I worked in the media for 20 years before I went into politics, that's what Mr. Kejo knows. Then, in my day, she wondered what the standard Croatian language was. The standard Croatian language is the one spoken on TV Zagreb. That's the definition. There I remember if the wrong accent happened Mr. Dulcic was the director of the great Dulčić, a great lecturer, a wonderful Croatian-language scholar, met a great college, a great college, editors of all the programs and all the parts of the program that why the journalist or speaker said the wrong accent. So it was inadmissible, unimaginable to speak illiterately. The material error shouldn't have happened, the wrong information, the wrong name, it didn't happen, it just didn't happen because it shouldn't have happened. This unprofessionalism that is now ruling is just astounding. She's so big she goes into manipulation. I don't like to talk about individual examples, but I'm just going to say one thing, one that got in my eyes. There's a show going after a conviction in The Hague, and there's a show about it that the show manager calls as an independent historian of a man who was an active participant, who was a HVO fighter. I don't mind inviting an HVO fighter, but he's got a point to make, too, that'd be good. But don't represent him as an independent historian because he's not. He's not in that situation and it's manipulation, so it's a viewer scam. That way you can't, you can't, I mean, I don't know why his editors don't warn him. Call the man, I don't mind, though, don't do the wrong attribute, don't do that because then you made a fake picture, then it's not the original, it's the wrong attribute. You said something was painted by Da Vinci and it wasn't, it was painted by someone else. I think there are too few European values in our programme. Look, there's got to be some sort of program orientation. Every TV, every media house has some sort of program orientation. Since we are an EU country, I think we should promote European values. I think they're not promoting enough, not enough. I don't think there's enough respect for the secularity of the state, not enough. Because the religious influence on my taste program is a little too much, which doesn't mean there shouldn't be any, though. Because believers also need to have their own program and hear something about it but it must be to the extent appropriate to a secular state. I often watch you History Channel, it's a good, good program, good channel. There is no day, look out, there is not a single day that there is at least one show about World War II, about the crimes of Nazism. So now why do you think they're doing it? So because they promote a certain value that the new generations that come, to face, to find out what it was. So they don't think they're relativating it or God forbid they're celebrating it. Why? Because it's a program orientation, it's a program orientation. And I think she's right that she has to be. I couldn't agree more with Mr. Cage if it was ratings, but I'd dare even say it doesn't matter. Public television must not have the task of being the most visible, so it has the right to tax, so it does not have to depend on commercial money. And I think our public television is too competitive with commercial television and it's ruined its quality, it's brought down that quality because it's set up some kind of commercial television model. Okay, these guys do it because it's more visible and then it attracts commercials and advertisers and they do it for money. But HRT has the tax money and it shouldn't be done, it shouldn't be done or at least not to that extent if it's done. So, after time has passed, we have no choice but to think about the board, the government has proposed to take this into account, this business report, given the flow of time, is completely pointless to them and accepts and buries, completely pointless. They were to be discussed when it went to replace Radman to see, to see that in Radman's time it was neatly good business, but I guess that's why they didn't even argue at the time. Because if it were a messy business, it might be a good reason to go on shifts with the director at the time. But it wanted to avoid, of course, so it was left for later. Here it was waiting until today when everyone forgot Radman was now the fourth director after him. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65457	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65458	Thank you very much. My colleague Stazić and I have long known each other both in opposition and in power. And by listening to you, we can really ask ourselves what we even replaced this Radman when he was so perfect, he left everything so beautiful, there was no affair, there was no problem? It was just that thousand flowers were blooming on HRT, and it wasn't like that. You worked very closely on a single program then as a government, to replace everything you inherited in 2011. That's what happened to HRT. How did you do that? First of all, the temporary Popovca shifts the Bimbo Novokmet. Right away goes 40 of his colleagues in one day, and then after that some kind of contest, and then we put Goran Radman on and we say let's back him up in the '70s, '60s that's the HRT we want to watch and that's how it spins. To listen to lectures today about how it was a big mistake, given how the SDPs were treated at the time. So why don't you say that you canceled from 2012 to 2014 any show in which anyone from the opposition could come to TV and face your views with any member of the then ruling coalition, the minister, the assistant minister, or I don't know the prime minister and any one? It wasn't. There was no possibility. Remember, you didn't come back openly until 2014 when you saw it going in the wrong direction. It was a purely censorship of opinion, an attempt to preserve power with only the information that has been chosen and people who will know how to protect such a failed policy that has been lost twice after that in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65459	I thank my colleague, Boric. The answer of fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65460	I can't think of being Mr. Radman's lawyer. And when he was the principal, I wasn't happy with that TV. I think, for example, that Mr. Galic led it much better. But to add more importance, I was talking about reports for his period. So that's what it says, so I didn't make it up. I read the data. Mr. Bacic read them, too. They're talking about good business, quality business, and that's what the Supervisory Board has accepted. In the end, there was some kind of crime, so why wasn't the State's Attorney's office acting? He was gone. He wasn't there, otherwise the State's Attorney's Office would have acted on it. They'd see the audit report and file a report, it'd process it. So it's a mantra, it's a lie, it's a lie to rock a man. But I do not attach too much importance, and it is not true that it has become any time when opposition representatives or politicians could not come to television shows. That was not the time. It wasn't that kind of time. But I'm not giving too much importance to HRT's influence, especially not today. Well, look. Since the 1990s HRT, then Radio Television Zagreb has been seen as an election prey. The director was Vrdoljak, who was the vice president of HDZ. The vice president of the HDZ was the head director of HRT. So in 2000, however, HDZ lost power regardless of having full HRTs in its hands. That didn't help him. So the illusion, the illusion, is a complete illusion that it can help maintain power. But that the program can be more quality if political interference is less than that I'm quite sure of. And I'd like you to take care of it as well as the principal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65461	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. Next replica, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in the first part of your presentation, colleagues Stazic you have troubled the reasons why the former director, Radman, was removed. Of course, it's hard to list many reasons now because that was the debate here in the Parliament all day and we came up with the argument that put it on. However, I will only provide you with information from this report. So... So 255 workers, for 255 workers in Mr. Radman's term, were allocated 33 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means on average per employee of 129 thousand kuna. What kind of worker here in this country is receiving an severance of $129,000? It's another thing. If that is not enough, then the fact that the funds are provided for informing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in the term of Mr. Radman was used to record entertainment shows The Woice and Dance with Stars. And a replica to the second part of your presentation regarding the participation of a respected historian in the show Open after the Hague Six in The Hague. According to your logic, only deserters or possibly those who attacked Croats or attacked Croatia could actually talk about the issues of the Homeland War. So, absolutely logic that doesn't stand in place. The historian who participated at the time on the show accidentally I was and I was a participant of the show spoke on the basis of facts, not on the basis of his experiences or emotions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65463	I thank my colleague Ljubic. The answer of fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65464	So, I'm surprised at your minding. I say here three times, it's no problem that the gentleman was on the show, but don't represent him as an independent historian when he's not in that thing. It's just not in that thing because he's a participant and he has a personal interest in showing a certain event in a certain way. He doesn't have that historical distance so he can talk objectively about it. So that, that's common sense. As far as severance is concerned, if you want to reduce the number of employees, you have only two options either to give up your severance or to give him unconditional notice or to give him your business notice to risk that you're being sued, that you get court, that you have to get him back to work and give him all the backlogs, only two options you have. Then, they all agreed and the supervisory authorities that they needed to reduce the number of employees and it was, it was Radman made, in a legitimate way. If he'd done it in an illegal way, I guess he'd have reacted to the state's attorney's office, but he didn't, because the way it was legal. And I'm only defending what these reports say here, I'm not adding anything, I'm not adding anything. Here, said Mr. Bacic, the appropriate colleague to Shuker, yes, there were audits both internal and state. Well, see if it's a state-run internal, state-run audit that she's found irregularities, illegalities in that business, so we'd have a trial against Radman now, but we don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65465	I would like to thank my colleague Stazic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, dear colleague Veljko Kajtazi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65466	... The Parliament, the Honorable Director, the Honorable State Secretary of Culture and the Honorable... [[Specially enabled.]] the programme council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have a number of HRT reports ahead and I have decided to refer specifically to the latest report concerning the report on the work of the HRT Programme Council and the implementation of the programme principles and obligations that HRT has in relation to minorities under the law and in accordance with the contract signed with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This contract, as you know, also includes specific obligations concerning informing members of national minorities, Article 45, which I have not been satisfied with for a long time. You know this because I repeat the same arguments year after year, and very little, almost nothing is done in the direction of some reform, although we also have members of the programming council who are members of certain national minorities. What bothers me most is the objectification of minorities, especially Roma, which is created by applying the programming principles that are used to date, especially through emissions such as Prism and other special emissions that geotise minorities and perform as folklore. Such an approach, not only does it not contribute to the involvement of national minorities in the work of the media, but it very often additionally attains them as groups that have special interests and ways of life beyond the normal lives of the majority people. Of course, the events are important, of course, that it is important for public television to transfer content that is financed from a state budget such as cultural events, but we cannot bear the application of Articles 45 and other obligations of the HRT. Although in this segment we have problems because HRT very often does not have cameras and people to accompany our manifestations. I think the key to the problem is creating a content that is not interesting to the public and that is reproduced year by year as manifestations themselves repeat themselves. I repeat, of course it is necessary and also important, but this is not an idea by involving minorities in our society on an equal basis. I believe that minority content on public television should create minorities and most of them should be absorbed. Public television as a public space must provide national minorities and other citizens who gather on other principles to participate in the work themselves and to learn about their thinking, perspectives, majority people. In the last 20 years, we have a reverse process in which journalists show the lives of minorities in a way that only minorities follow. I believe that this is not the idea of the last obligations of the HRT, but their minimum condition that they meet in order to satisfy the form, to contribute to the diversity and interestingness of the programme, in order for minorities to get the opportunity to get involved to find another model. If they applied a reverse approach that would involve the cooperation of national minorities with content creators and the creation of content by minorities for the general public, two main problems I keep talking about would be avoided. The first is, to limit production opportunities, that is, if we didn't have a camera to record an event if we changed access, we'd get interesting content for which capacity should not be found, but content itself would be interesting to the general public and therefore also production-covered. Another problem is a total failure, a topic and a conversational one when we have limited resources, it's very important that we use the minutes we get in a good way. My last visit to HRT proved to be such when a serious contribution involved a person who shames the Roma community and whose work I constantly receive written complaints for. If the editors knew better the Roma community or if they had at least one Roma employee on HRT, it wouldn't have come to that. When the content is created to meet the norm and form, we come to situations where we embarrass both HRT and those that should come out and engage. On the other hand, I would especially like to thank Croatia's broadcasting that, through the follow-up of the International Day of Remembrance of Roma genocide victims in World War II made a step forward and so far undetected and forgotten, and put a very important topic into the public's focus. This is an excellent example of how we include in the regular programme the topic of a major Roma national minority because we have not had direct transfer of events of Roma or other minorities so far. Of course, this is about one serious topic but the Programme Council must also consider creating other interesting content in which the majority of the population does not know such as the participation of Roma in the Homeland War, the prominent and successful Roma Nobel laureates and actors, without saying what they could do if they did a minority redistribution in which members of all minorities could create content from their own perspective, which would be interesting to all. So I'm not necessarily talking about minority issues, but about minority views on current issues, such as events in the Parliament. It is something that we have not had so far and something that is equally necessary for the Croatian diaspora and for minorities who have lived on our premises for centuries. As minorities in our society are not separate thematic blocks, so it should not be on public television but part of the mosaics. Not a separate minority think tank that's not part of that most monitored diary of direct transmissions. At the last meeting I held with representatives of all national minorities, they just signaled one such conclusion that it would be more important for them to have one of their most important events in the Dnevnik for a few seconds, but all the minutes they receive in special shows that only they monitor. I hope that the political stability that we have thanks to minorities will give space to both the Government and the HRT Administration to make one systematic change in the accession of national minorities and to concentrate on the quality and creation of interesting content, not on many minutes on contributions to folklore. Given that we are also discussing Croatian business these days, I would once again like to point out a deep injustice to some of our citizens who bear the same burden independently of their property status. Although public television and national interests are not all able to bear the same burden independently of income, I repeat this way that I explicitly advocate the abolition of the obligation or better put forward a full subsidy from the state to the most vulnerable citizens when talking about a TV fee. It is therefore necessary for radio-television to function, but the principle of social justice as the fundamental value of our Constitution must be more concretely applied to the part relating to the fee when it represents a lot to some citizens 80 kunas while to others who are not paying the same amount. In the end, I want to say that the National Minority Club will support the report, but with the observation I just made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65467	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Veljak Kajtazi, for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65468	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Kajtazi. Your words are justified, noble, but it will be nothing and because for years it has refused to establish an adequate editorial on Croatian radiotelevision for minorities. Just as under the current Law, the Programme Council does not mean anything, it has been deposed as is the same and almost detached and the Supervisory Board. And until that changes, there's no way that any idea or any change can come to a word. Ljeljak can come, Sedlar can come, the auditors can come, but when it comes to minority members to participate and to be allowed into the national programme, informative or cultural, can only be allowed when it comes to excess.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65469	I thank Mr. Pupovac. Come in, my colleague Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65470	Thank you. My dear colleague, I fully agree with you. But I am optimistic, and I believe with our recommendations and with our initiatives, I believe that we should now improve the work of the Programme Council. It's true what you mentioned only when it comes to certain events then are minorities in the first place. Never does anyone from the Programme Council ask a question about problems, but only when it comes to memorials then try to discuss it and talk about it. And the problems of national minorities, as they are concerned, are never discussed, and there are not even special shows that could also be minority that hear their voice and their contribution as well in the debates or events in political life, which is happening and how they could also make their own contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65471	I would like to thank my colleague Kajtazi for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65472	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Kajtazi, it is entirely justified that you, as a representative of the national minority, would need more space in the media space. But I couldn't agree with you if you weren't represented to a large extent, or that maybe it can be the same not just you, but all other national minorities that through the influence of what you say influences that through county panoramas, and I have often watched and seen in fact that these panorams particularly highlight the problems of national minorities. And I think that's very good, and that's where it really needs to be on HRT 4 so that that problem can be encouraged. And besides the fact that, through the Prizum through a programme dedicated especially to national minorities, it is also very nice to show that the initiatives and achievements that have been achieved are also referred to as problems so that we cannot say that Croatian television does not care. I say, I allow you to look for more space. But we also have to say that other very interesting emissions through the Consumer Code, through agricultural emissions, the Sea, etc. to be touched in these segments, and it is very nice to see that there is a lot of work to be done on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65473	I thank my esteemed colleague. My colleague Kajtazi's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65474	Dear fellow Members, I would be delighted that Roma in certain shows that they have over certain panorams not only talk about problems, but also about their opinions that's one thing. And secondly, what you've mentioned, I'd be overjoyed by the fact that members of the Roma community have more than 70 Roma settlements somewhere, I'd be overjoyed if there was a Roma journalist who could bring concrete problems out of the settlement. So there's some kind of redaction, if we can have a journalist from Mostar, then he can be a member of the Roma national minority also from 60 Roma settlements. I think we could make that happen because then the events would be quite different than they are today. I mentioned the same earlier in a show where we spoke seriously recently on Good Day Croatia on a very serious show and a serious topic. The editor of the show included something that had nothing to do with the topic we were just working on. It just shows access to the editor or editor who prepared the show. This means not knowing enough members of the Roma national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65475	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Katazia. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, respected counterpart Andrija Mikulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65476	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Croatian Director, President of the Council, representatives of the ministry. Well I don't know, it might be hard to be motivated to say something new, but if the motive is true to be heard, then I'm always motivated 24 hours a day so every day, every year etc. You said nice here, and some of my predecessors only used the principal based on your statements the part that suits them, and then they claim that they are manipulations on Croatian broadcasting. It's weird, they're numbers about profit, but they don't want to say that in 2014 or 15, compared to the ones before when they're numbers in percentages. So we have to give full information. We can't do it the way we like it. Well, then let the public see. The total revenue was achieved in the amount of 1.1% lower than in the previous year, and 0.8% lower than in the plan. So someone wasn't planning it the way they were supposed to. It says 1.2 less than the plan, 0.1, 2.1 less than the plan, etc. You know where they're only more? Where money was supposed to be spent, there's more. And then they say we're working on it when we hear the report for 2014 and 15th, so I think the director suggested to the Nobel Prize how well he worked. But nobody's gonna say he didn't work in accordance with the law and the statutes. Now, that's the problem. You know I was taught when I was in some system that when we had internal control and we'd catch the inspector doing something he shouldn't have done, then he said – but I'm doing fine. Yeah, well, you're doing a good job and we're praising you. But not doing well, that's what we're charging you with. And that's why the director of the day was removed. Therefore, we have concluded here in 2014, 2015 and the Programme Council's Work Report as well as the 2014 and 15 HRT Business Report. Over time, the proposal was to take it into consideration as information. We adopted it unanimously on the Committee, and I don't see any problem here. But speaking of facts, then for the sake of truth and history, we need to repeat. Therefore, on the basis of the decision of the Council on Electronic Media, which refers to the HRT Supervisory Board of that law, the HRT article refers to a request for appropriate measures to be taken in accordance with the cited law and statutes, since it has been established that HRTs do not keep a business book in accordance with Article 38(7) and (8). The law on HRT states that the Director-General will repeat it, it has been found that the head director of HRT does not perform his duties in accordance with the law and statutes, and what are we going to do now? That's true and that's the reason, and not the business story reports are good. Well, he's not the one who worked alone to get credit for those reports. But for what he did against the law, that's another story, that's what it went for. I can agree with the Honorable President of the Programme Council that ratings is not the most important criterion. But let's do it for the truth. So then the director came at the end of 2012, we have the data, and I got this data, so based on an independent measurement of the ratings that is being carried out for all televisions, and it's being carried out by the same company, the ratings achieved were 14% for HTV 1, and 7% for HTV 2. So that's your whole day's share of the ratings you've achieved. It's one year. Do you know how long it was until the director of the Kukurik coalition arrived? 23.5% and 8.9%. Here's your ability. Now it doesn't matter if it's 10 or 20, but the important thing is that the nominal half fell ratings, that's the key. We need to open these topics, that's what this is about. I'm not saying that this public service can be better than some commercial television, but I don't know why not? So these are the topics we need to discuss. The numbers say everything, the ratings split. Someone's not doing a good job or doing it. That's something we had to conclude. Then watch out for the next thing. You have fired as a tool to get to the finish line. The facts suggest that the then director quit and when the proceedings were conducted before the competent court almost everyone was returned to work, that is to say, a deal was concluded with some because of an independent legal opinion which clearly states that HRT would lose the dispute and the worker would have to return. Here, here's the brains of the legal department. And I'm firing you, so you're on trial. That's the way. That's a bad way to go. And that's why it ended the way it ended. I'm not going to show any more of those portals in particular where it says that then the principal broke the law, but I'm going to end up with one thing, and that's, you watch the statement, when I was replacing people from my heart thanking me. Well, I've never heard of that before. Someone's changing you, and you're thanking him. It's really a miracle. But what we need to remind ourselves, and we must not forget that when we are called to do something on the political line, then it is that gentlemen I showed it to you in the discussion about the Supervisory Board I will remind you but probably not, and that is that Croatian Radio Television is Bartholomew Night for Editors on State TV. Watch out for the wonders of 40 unprofessional people at one time! It's a miracle! What capacity and knowledge that replaced them. Until 40 editors were replaced in five days. And you know what the then Dejan Shosha, V.D. The editor-in-chief of HTV says? There's no cleaning. That's what they've been doing on the political line, so it's what they're doing to the obedient, not to the expert. Therefore, I see no reason to take this report for the sake of time, and that is why we finally receive it as information, and you have nothing to do with it but you have now fallen into that obligation to represent them. I have not now opened one topic to the President of the Programme Council, but probably slowly if not then the time has come to sit down and talk about the Programme Council and powers. Not that you're sending notices, reports, and then you're ignored for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65477	I thank my esteemed colleague Mikulic for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65478	Thank you, Vice President. Well, dear colleague Mikulić, you mentioned the quality of the program and ratings. I'm sorry that my colleague Stazic left, but I didn't react in time when he said it wasn't about ratings. On the contrary the ratings are the most important, the ratings are actually an indicator of how high-quality TV programs are. Because without ratings, we don't really know how high-quality the program is if we don't know what the ratings are. So ratings is also important because it measures the quality of the program. Some of them mentioned the BBC. And the BBC went through another 93rd restructuring, the BBC froze the subscription for six years, the BBC also fired people, but after all they went out in a way that now on Sundays, 96% of the British total viewer population is watching the BBC. What is the percentage of Croatian viewers watching Sunday Croatian TV? And there is no shame in learning from those who are better. It's wise to learn. In fact, on this example we can learn a lot if we apply that expertise that was asked by the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio Television in 2015 on the orders of the then administration, the same request from the BBC's expertise. However, when this expertise was made which was not paid because the radiotelevision for participation in the European Broadcasting Union and therefore, it was only the cost of coming, which was with that expertise. It's marked as a secret document. And now the most important question is, why is the expertise that helps the Croatian Radio Television programme, which is done by experts who know the job, would you have prepared it as the biggest state secret? Were you taking it and doing it step by step or you would sort of declare it a state secret and lock it in the safe on the HRTs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65479	I would like to thank my colleague, Petriyevcan. The answer of my colleague Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65480	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, I absolutely agree with everything you've said. You always have to study. I don't agree with the way you work to say something and then leave, that you don't have the arguments, that you don't have the fact. But it's obviously someone's only up to the media space. And now you have one situation where you claim to be being manipulated and you don't like media promotion, and when you're done talking to a pay phone, then leave the assembly room. Therefore, the only thing that could be done was media manipulation. These people need to be able to do their job, and I am sure that there will be satisfactory results and goals. Someone here said they were talking to employees on Croatian radio, so they said nothing was done. Maybe we're not talking to the same employees? Can you do better? He can always do better. Is it better? You should. Is this perfect? It's not. But that's why we're all here to work together and do what needs to be done. As for ratings. So if I'm paying for something, so am I. Well, I won't pay if I don't want to watch. So, that's for sure, I'll resort to the profession if the waist says it may not be the most important criterion, but certainly one of the criteria that is very important in putting together a total picture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65481	I thank my colleague Mikulić for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65482	Thank you very much. A colleague, Mikulić, says an old saying, "No one has been born yet to please everyone." That's not even HRT's, and it shouldn't be, and that's why all these ratings stories are supposed to be going in the wrong direction. Because neither the public service's task is to be equal to commercial, and they should not strive to compete with them, but to be themselves and to work on being different from commercial and to look for their viewers and their people who will somehow reward them with ratings. As far as ratings are concerned, well I've seen here's the report there's a space where you can check what's being looked at and how you look at it. Where are 800 of the ratings connected? In Zagreb? Probably, maybe, I don't know. I'm sure he's not in the rural area. I'm sure I don't have it on the islands. I'm sure it's not far, so let's just say it's some kind of space within which we have an exact part of the people who can tell us what we're looking at. So if Super talent is the most watched show in Croatia, what are we like as a state? I don't believe that. I look at it sometimes and it's not bad, but why would some other HRT shows be worse? I don't know, A side, Sea, Fruits of the Earth, Open, Sunday at 2. Or that someone convinces me that the game that decides whether we're going to the World Cup is less watched than any other commercial program is not true and the HRT shouldn't be on that side. But be different and I'm saying, here's maybe from the Parliament and all these discussions. So when we watch the information show, why are all the journals equal? It's like it's being arranged from one center all have the same people who tell that day or have the same stories. So don't do it. Be different. Let's show people what's good from these discussions that they benefit themselves, not to be interesting and to compete in that space, because that's when the Dnevnik gets what it is, and it doesn't need to be perceived whether HRT's ratings is good or not because there are 10 good shows and the Dnevnik doesn't matter at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65483	I thank my colleague, Boric. Answer. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next debate individually. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk. He's not present. He's losing his right to debate. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. He's not present. He's losing his right to debate. Final word on behalf of the Proposer, President-in-Office of the Programme Council Dr. Hello, Kejo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, thank you for the whole day's debate, a whole bunch of suggestions, ideas and reflections. Thank you on behalf of your colleagues and colleagues from the Program Council. On behalf of Mr. Director, too, who said he wouldn't go out for a pay phone right now. Let me just say a few sentences. One of them is that I am sorry that Croatian broadcasting is not being debated in front of the full assembly. I don't think it's the most important thing in the world, but I think Croatian radio television deserves full assembly and full public attention. Let me say it's about the only national broadcaster. There's not 100 of them. We only have one HRT. And I would like you to try to understand in this sense no matter what side of the assembly I look at as much as possible to understand that Croatian broadcasting is not one editor, it is not just one show, it is not just a Dnevnik, it is not just an information programme. Croatian broadcasting is even more than journalism, just journalism. I will not say at all that Croatian Radio Television is one of the biggest investors in Croatian culture, for example. And a whole bunch of talk about fees and that's what you'd be able to talk about. Croatian TV is clearly identified in the above home of viewers in Europe and in the environment of the most visible public service and the most listening, Croatian broadcasting is not only HTV's. There is also Croatian radio, and orchestra and a lot of talk about it. I, at the most honest level in the name of the Programme Council and in my personal name, would like you to take some way from this debate to think about if it is necessary and if the time has come to talk and think at the level of public debates, and then finally in this House about changing and finding new models or models about how public service should be at the service of all citizens and citizens, to the entire Croatian public. But above and above all, to make sure he's an institution. That's something they have to give and his employees aren't just gonna come out of the air. But both from here and from other addresses to understand that Croatian broadcasting is among other things and institutions I would say Max Weber, we will all go through the state if we don't make the institutions there will be nothing left. Croatian broadcasting is much more than individual sometimes I am sorry to say, little and more groundly than it should debate and level, it should and should be much more, if one part of it is the address that I refer to HRT employees then one part should remain for you both in finding a better model and in discussing HRT in a more appropriate way and in a more appropriate time. This is not and I may not have the right to do so, but I would like to have done this at a more appropriate time and in front of the full public, because Croatian broadcasting is ultimately a public service for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65485	I would like to thank the esteemed Dr. Zdraku Keji on this final word. I'm closing the debate on all four points of the agenda. We'll vote on them when the conditions are met. Once again, I would like to thank the respected head of Croatian Radio Television, Mr. Kazimir Bačić. Dear President of the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television Dr. Zdravko Kejji, the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Mr Krešimir Partl and the Honored Commissioner at the Ministry of Culture, Ms Nives Zvonaric. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points for today's session. Tomorrow we will continue our work at 9.30 p.m. with a vote on the debated agenda points. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the evening. The seat was suspended at 7.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-12-14-0.u65486	Report on the operation of Croatian Radio Television for 2014. The report is submitted by the Director-General of Croatian Radio Television, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. Report on the business of Croatian Radio Television for 2014 is received. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 98 for and 18 against the conclusion proposed by the parent parliamentary committee. Dear Parliamentarians, honourable parliamentary representatives, may I have your attention? Today's vote on the debated points is coming up. Before that, I already have some announcements for the break, and we could use a break, given that we're having a little bit of a failure of our electronic voting system, so now we're going to see who's answering for the break. Then we'll take a break to assess the professional services, it'll take about 45 minutes for the system to reset and repair, so I'm asking you to report first to those who are interested in the break and then we'll take a break and then the vote will be estimated somewhere around half 11. A colleague of Esich answered first, please.
