ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u25144	Are they interested in taking a break? There are. Representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u25145	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to talk about the latest rulings against the banks, two powerful and one ineligible in the name of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, a break of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u25146	Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u25147	Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia I am looking for a ten-minute break to point out some new circumstances regarding the Agrokor case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u25148	Are there any other interested representatives? There isn't. I'm setting a break of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u25149	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA, Stanko was requested by a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u25150	Thank you, dear Vice President. I will talk about the latest rulings at municipal and county courts in the Republic of Croatia. As we know, the banks are convicted of illegally raising interest rates and a whole series of private lawsuits followed, and now we already have a case law that shows that banks should not behave that way. First of all, I will say something about the rightful verdict against the Split Bank in Osijek, it is that the Split Bank has negotiated with certain debtors who have negotiated after the encouraging housing of the loan, it has agreed on an interest rate in a way that it is changing according to the change in EURIBOR. However, it did not apply EURIBOR to the change in interest rates and the debtors noticed that, they went to the courts and received judgments. And so we have such a rightful verdict where the debtor had to return all the overpaid interest for five years because the bank did not reduce the interest rate on the principle of change in the EURIBOR and after the Split Bank, it was just the Split Bank, after which she noticed that other people would go to courts she offered all such debtors of the settlement. However, with these settlements, something is wrong. What's wrong? The settlement offers a difference of annuity. When offering overpaid interest, there must be a difference in interest, the difference between the charged interest and the interest as it was due under the contract. Since an annuity difference has been offered, the debtors are also damaged and all those debtors who feel that they could prosecute some period of two, three years should go to court and should not accept such settlements. The other important thing is, we have one verdict in Kunski's loan. So in Osijek it was decided that a debtor who had raised a loan for a car in kuna, therefore not with a currency clause had received a verdict in his favour, the first degree and the bank had to pay him over the amount of interest. This is proof that the collective court ruling applies to all currencies, so not only to CHF but also to kuna loans and euro loans. And the other important thing about that verdict is that the court, the court, did not accept the objection of an old-fashioned bank. The bank objected, she felt that the claim was outdated, that it could only be sought back five years. However, in my view and in the opinion of many lawyers, the court has done the right thing and found that the limitation of overpaid interest started on 14 June 2014 and since the beginning of the day following the decision of power in the case of Franak. Namely, no one can ask for anything unless they knew they could ask for something. So only on the day of knowledge of the claim can it begin to run out of time and again. It's the proper thinking of the District Court judge in Osijek. And finally, the sugar finally has the first power of judgment on the integrity of the interest rate contracted in a CHF loan that's been converted. Therefore, the County Court in Osijek ruled that the interest rate was agreed as variable, which was changed by the decision of the bank, was worthless, that it was not valid despite the conversion of CHF credit. The lawsuit did not appear to be due, so the lawsuit did not require payment of the amount, so the debtor who received the suit for his own benefit will have to demand either outside the court money the bank owes him or will have to press charges again to get the money. But what does it matter in everything? However, I must say that those who have not yet filed charges, and have converted their CHF loans, these lawsuits should not be filed before a new decision on the review of the Supreme Court is made. So, let's wait for all the joint new decision on the review of the Supreme Court, after the Constitutional Court has returned the case to the Supreme Court and then we'll all be smarter together. And I am finally announcing today a thematic session to discuss illegalities in determining interest rates and possible solutions, judicial practice and this thematic session is being organised by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Finance and Budget. At the session, he will talk among other coordinators from the Franak Denis Majo Association, I will talk about illegalities and possible solutions, he will speak to Professor Denis Majo. Lovrinovic on interest differences here and in the euro area and finally Dr.sc. Dominik Vuletic on case law in the eurozone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u25151	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alexic, for the reason of the break. The following came for a break on behalf of the party Let's change Croatia's distinguished professor. Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u25152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow citizens who follow us through the media. Here's every day some new details about the Agrokor case, about the problems. We economists know that these days are key, critical, especially for the next ten days because liquidity is at risk, or indifference across the entire system, and if someone does not approve an intervention or credit for overcoming this indivisibility in the next ten days, it is possible that inconspicuous consequences are possible. In this whole story, it is extremely important to stress that the share of Agrokor in the external debt of the Republic of Croatia totaling about 41 billion euros is 8%, meaning about 3.6 billion euros. It's 8% so just made the system of Agrokor. Out of the total corporate sector that is in charge abroad, around 15 and a half billion euros, 22% of all companies in Croatia created Agrokor. Please, everyone knew it well, everything was known how nice a representative of the Croatian National Bank said yesterday but no one intervened. She knew HANFA, she knew the CNB, they knew that this was a strategic threat to the financial stability of Croatia, which has been severely damaged these days and they have done nothing and it is necessary to seek responsibility for these institutions. We will not support it, the party Change Croatia will not support this law on extraordinary management because it is extremely bad without any professional analysis, it is missingly prepared. And he'll only favor some again, he knows the strongest. If it was applied as it was proposed, it could question the legal security of the state and drive away several thousand small and medium-sized suppliers, producers, of course, workers. I have a few questions for the government. First, who will be responsible for how and why such a great debt of Agrodor has occurred both internally and externally towards the state and suppliers. The second question is when will some ruling politicians stop acting as citizens before noon, and in the afternoon as politicians at the top of the state and realize that they are the ones who lead the state and should behave accordingly. Who's going to be responsible for not respecting the Law on payment deadlines. So it's a public secret that Agrokor has been late for years with payments for several months. He thus produced indifference and destroyed hundreds and thousands of small suppliers. The third question is who will protect the small suppliers, and the state obviously won't, even though it's telling us declared that it will. And the problem is that the state can't protect its own interests. In this context, to conclude this, it will all increase the overall liquidity and debt of citizens and entrepreneurs, and that is not at all questionable. The first wave could block even a few thousand family farms that are at risk anyway. We will not support the law because it was done by dominant politicians. The waist is dominantly bypassed. He's being brought in without professional analysis. He's missing. He will only favor some and could question the legal security of the state and, as I said, send several more thousands of small, medium suppliers, producers and workers into debt slavery. I ask the government to appoint its representative to monitor the process of restructuring the concerts, which will monitor the payment of debts to suppliers especially small ones who will ensure the payment of salaries, the preservation of the strategic interests of the state and the repayment of debts to the state, and that new owners are required to comply with all Croatian laws. And one more thing to say. This law simply puts aside everything that has been declared strategic companies in Croatia so far. So this is the new redefinition of strategic companies. I already said on Croatian Radio this morning, let's say you take Croatian Radio, she's a strategic company, but according to these features and regulations, she's not. Gentlemen, we can't help but get the impression that this law is so-called. Lex Agrokor, so he's opposing the Constitution, he's referring to wanting not to take on one company and what's most important of all of us is being asked to support this law. The state will not appoint its representative there, therefore, and the commissioner will only report to the Ministry of Economy, and those who have approved the law will not. So much for laws and ways of solving problems in Croatia. The Change Party of Croatia really wants to change this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u25153	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic, for the reason of the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35638	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency and under (b) Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Articles 11 and 12. The law on Croatia reports to the news agency. The materials were delivered to you in the boxes. Contributions to the proposals are not multiplied but are found on the Croatian Assembly website. The debate was conducted by the home Board on Information, Information and Media. You also received the report at the sessions. Is it possible that the proposaler's representative would like to give an additional explanation? Here you go. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture Mr. Kresimir Partl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35639	Members of the Committee of the European Parliament and of the Council shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation. The law on Croatia's news agency is prescribed that the Croatian Parliament appoints and resolves members of the Governing Council of HINA on a four-year basis. According to Article 12 of the Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Assembly of members of the Governing Council on the basis of a public call procedure. Part of the previous members of the Governing Council have expired from four years, and the government has established a proposal for a decision to resolve part of the members of the Governing Council for the expiry of the term of office. On the basis of the procedure followed by a public call, the Government also established a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Administrative Council of HINA. The following is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to appoint the following candidates as members of the Governing Council of HINA. From the ranks of HINA employees Slavica Cvitanic, from the order of legal experts Maja Plesskalt, from the order of IT experts Roman Bogut, from the order of economic and financial experts Bruno Dobranić. We also propose that members of the HINA Governing Council be resolved, which expired the mandate of Slavica Cvitanic, Roman Juric, Vlado Raic and Josip Veber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35640	I would like to thank Mr. Kreshimer Partl, the guest secretary of state, for this further explanation. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We're moving on to debates. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall, Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. The following has been reported for discussion on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists by Honorable counterpart Miro Bulj. He's gone. Thank you. The following has appeared individually for the debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras. He's not here either. The following appeared for discussion on behalf of, or individually respected colleague Miro Bulj. There isn't. Thank you. Is there a final word from the motionor? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the representatives of the proposing state secretary, Mr Krešimir Partl and Mr Tomislav Jelic, the head of the culture ministry sector, for the reasons of the law. I now set a break until 11.00 p.m. when we will begin with the agenda Final draft law on the procedure of the extraordinary administration in trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35641	Next, first, the proposal for a decision to resolve part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency. Secondly, the proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 12. The law on Croatia's reporting news agency on each proposed member of the Governing Council of HINA will be voted individually. First, I am voting on the motion to relieve the member of the Board of Directors of HINA from the ranks of HINA employees Slavica Cvitanic. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that the proposal has been accepted unanimously. I am voting on the motion to relieve members of the HINA Management Council from the order of economic and financial, legal and information experts, Josip Weber. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that the proposal has been accepted by most votes. 128 for, no abstentions and one against. I am voting on the motion to relieve members of the HINA Management Council from the ranks of economic and financial, legal and information experts of Mr. Vlada Rajic's sciences. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that the proposal has been accepted unanimously. I am voting on the motion to relieve members of the HINA Management Council from the order of economic and financial, legal and information experts, Roman Juric. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I also find that this proposal has been accepted unanimously. I note that we have reached a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Administrative Council of HINA as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Second. Dear MPs and MPs, we will now vote on the appointment of part of the members of the Governing Council of HINA. I am voting on the proposal to appoint Slavica Cvitanic as a member of the HINA Management Council from the line of staff in HINA. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 126 in favour, 1 abstention and no vote against the proposal has been accepted. I am voting on the proposal to appoint Bruno Dobrinić as a member of the HINA Management Council in the order of economic and financial, legal and information experts. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 122 in favour, 3 abstentions and no votes against the proposal are accepted. I am voting on the proposal to appoint Maja Pleskalt as a member of the HINA Management Council in the order of economic and financial, legal and IT experts. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find the proposal accepted unanimously. I am voting on the proposal to appoint Romana Bogut as a member of the HINA Management Council in the order of economic and financial, legal and IT experts. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 123 favour, 1 abstention and no vote against this proposal has been accepted. I note that we have reached a decision on the appointment of part of the members of the Administrative Council of HINA as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35642	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:00 A.M.]] Proposal for a Act of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Justice. Some reports have been received at the meeting, and the Committee on Economy's report will soon be divided because this committee has only recently completed its work. I would now like to ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. This is Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35643	Good afternoon. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you for the words, Vice President Jandrokovic. Ladies and gentlemen. Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic and I have agreed to share these 30 minutes we have on behalf of the Government, so I will hold a first-part presentation, and the Minister of Economy will clarify the individual provisions of this law in the second part. So before you there is the Act on the procedure of extraordinary administration in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. This is not a law for Ivica Todorovic, this is not Lex Agrokor, this is a law by which the Croatian State, Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I am convinced that the vast majority of representatives in the Croatian Parliament are protecting the interests of the Croatian financial system, Croatian economy, workers and employees of Agrokor, OPG, suppliers and all stakeholders currently involved in the process that is taking place in connection with our largest company. There we must be quite clear and the Croatian public should be fully aware of it. This law has its own political context, has its own economic, financial, strategic, foreign policy if we will, labour-legal context, agricultural context and all this is on the agenda of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with or without this law. It's all on the agenda of all political states in the Republic of Croatia with or without this law. Why are we deciding on this law? That's the key and that's the fundamental question? In some situations where the social market economy, which in principle in free countries, countries of democracy, capitalism needs in a market that is most reasonable and in accordance with best practices regulated by the legal framework, comes into a situation of certain difficulties, a particular problem, when possibly only and all stakeholders of this process are unable to find a solution, then this is the moment where the government, the state institutions need to take responsibility and try to help solve the problems that currently exist. That is the fundamental meaning and purpose of this law. And I think it's important that we all fully understand the war of our engagement. It's a key prerequisite and it's the essence of this law. At the same time, we want to protect our taxpayers, all the people in Croatia, because the law refers to what we precisely defined societies of systemic importance. And companies of systemic importance, in our opinion and according to the criteria which determines this law, of course, relate to the number of employees, to the overall importance associated with the demarcation of business, to the participation in GDP revenues, but also to existing obligations that such companies may have. So we have put two basic criteria in this law that it is companies that have more than five thousand employees on average, and that have obligations greater than seven billion and 500 million kuna. Such companies in Croatia do not have much, but there are enough of them to employ 11 and a half percent of total employees in Croatia and make up 34.6% of GDP. These are facts and it makes them systemically significant. In particular, Agrokor is a company that has 60,000 employees not only in Croatia, but in neighbouring countries, which has more than 5,000 suppliers, which has more than 70 companies in the context of a concert and which is currently in some difficulties. The fact that one of the Credit Rating Agency Moodys has reduced the credit rating of Agrokor from B3 to CAA1 with negative prospects and, of course, an assessment that concerns and requires special efforts and special circumstances. Here I would like to say that Agrokor is, of course, a private company, the Croatian Constitution, all our legal regulations protect private property, protect freedom of entrepreneurship, and we do not give up on that. And this law is written in a way that is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That is also what I want to say at the beginning because I think there has been a lot of debate in the public on this subject, and it is very important in my court because this law follows several constitutional principles. It follows the provisions of Article 49 which discuss the responsibility of the State to promote economic progress and social well-being. The following is Article 3 which speaks of social justice as one of the highest values of our constitutional order. Next, Article 16 in which we are talking about the general principle of proportionality in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where the restriction of freedom or rights can only be made proportionate to individual cases and needs of the situation. But what is most important and most important is that this law follows Article 50(2) which speaks of proportionality in the restriction of entrepreneurship and ownership rights and can only be limited in order to protect the interests and safety of the Republic of Croatia, nature, the human environment or human health. That's the key. These constitutional provisions were the framework on which we developed the proposal for this law. What is the key and purpose of the process that should solve this problem? The script A. Screenplay A is currently going on. The owner, the management obviously through the process of dialogue with all interested stakeholders, and that is primarily for the believers, aims to find a solution for suppliers. This solution involves a fresh, new liquidity, so the willingness of credit institutions to give the company in these circumstances fresh money. This fresh money should be used for business, this fresh money should be used for salaries of workers and employees, this fresh money should be used to settle tax obligations and this fresh money should be used for payments made to suppliers and small and large, all those who are in that business chain relying on the business of our largest company. The scenario also includes a restructuring process that is necessary and crucial in the circumstances that the company faces today and that, as you can see in the public company itself, is working. If an agreement was reached which, as we can also see, would allow that creditor who is now ready to provide fresh liquidity under these circumstances to ensure that his demand gets the status of the oldest demand, which means the one who gives the last one when the situation is as it is, then he gets the championship when it comes to the repayment of those financial liabilities. Then there's the possibility that the process is going on in scenario A. What's scenario B and why we're talking about it and that's the point of this law? If such an agreement does not occur, the time factor and circumstances that you see have also led to the blocking of the accounts of certain companies and companies in the Agrokora system, which as we can see have led to the blockade of individual suppliers’ accounts, which certainly cause intolerance and mistrust in those who are also related to these suppliers. When we look at this process, then it is important that the state, either at the request of the creditors or at the request of the debtor himself, and the debtor in the words of this law itself, asks Agrokor itself to apply to this company of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia the Law on Extraneous Administration goes into its implementation exactly as is provided for through these fifty articles, with the aim and in a way that just an extraordinary commissioner appointed by the Commercial Court in Zagreb according to the provisions of this law, and, of course, to the Government's proposal to be the one with his deputies, with close consultation with the Religious Council, with the advice of the Advisory Council, and of course in order and that is the key, in order to ensure the best and most professional interests of the economic and financial Republics, acts on the welfare of all stakeholders of the process. It's not the same as who conducts the restructuring process. If it comes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the initiative of the Croatian State, then the person who comes there or the persons who come, must take care of the employees of Konzum in whom probably each of you occasionally comes, about the interest of the OPG supplier, the interest of the financial blood flow of the Republic of Croatia, the interest of our economy. And that's the key, and that's the point, and I'm asking you to understand that. A law like this wasn't written in mind. It is written in an accelerated procedure, that is because the circumstances are so, but it is written on the basis of similar situations in which other EU countries have previously found themselves. Other countries also resorted to special legal regimes when such an uncontrollable situation occurred to them in the economy. They sought to solve the problem in the best of their intentions and in the best interests of state interests, general good, public interest and all who are part of this process. We make sure this issue has its own international dimension. Agrokor is a large company for Croatian proportions but it is large and relevant in our neighborhood as well. It is important both in Slovenia and in Serbia and in other countries where companies operating in the context of the concert are all interested in the process, one detail about creditors and creditors. Dear colleagues and colleagues, not you, and not me, the private company not only this one, but anyone who doesn't ask who, I mean which bank and whose property and under what conditions they'll be in debt to. For this I am not responsible, nor my Government, nor the Croatian Parliament are the facts that are on the table today, and we together have to look at them and try to solve them in a way that the restructuring process is sustainable, to keep employees, and that the creation of a sort of wall can tell the legal around the company that would involve that moratorium on the traits of the credentials being spoken of today, ensure that all parts of society continue with their business and what is most important teaching with income. And these new fresh incomes of such a society where there are many companies that do very well would generate money that would allow the gradual repayment of debts, quality restructuring and new positioning on both our market and the markets that are adjacent to us. Our goal is to solve the problem, solve it in a responsible way. We offer this scenario as scenario B, a scenario that makes a kind of security network of esteemed MPs and MPs. This is not a scenario where someone goes from the trapeze to the floor but then the network keeps it, the one that goes towards the floor is not a single person, no company, the one that this network needs to keep is the Croatian economy. It's the key and it's the essence of this law, and it's important that we all figure it out together. That's his main intention. And I expect you to know that at a time like this, everyone, and here I am talking to my colleagues from the opposition, you recognize the importance of this situation, I think you are aware of that because you yourself have had the right to manage Croatia several times in our 27 years of independence and that, regardless of the local elections, regardless of the political differences, ideological or anything else we try to find an agreement that is important at this point, this message that we will vote, how we will act, for the Croatian public, for the creditors, for the international financial institutions, for the rating agency is extremely important. Because what exactly do we have to do? It's got to come to a point where you draw a line saying the business that led to this now has to stop. We have a moment of turning point and a new moment is moving in which the most important word is trust. Trust in business, trust in restructuring, trust in those who need to give fresh money, for people who will lead the restructuring process and a stable, clear legal framework in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the EU acquis, and in coordination with other regulations that Croatia has. It's a dear colleague and colleague key. Think carefully, whether this is a subject in which we need to differ and share again, or whether this is a subject in which we use common sense and necessity, and also the urgency of action, some of you have spoken and discussed, requires a minimum effort to send a message of unity about this topic today. This is not a consensus in Europe that lasts for years, this is a consensus on the urgent joint action and in the assessment of the government's intention of the parliamentary majority but also of all MPs to solve together the problem that we have here, which will end up in our arms whether we want it or not. That's what this law is all about. And that's what our actions are all about. So I appeal to you and to your political responsibility think about it. If you consider that there are formulas in this law that can be better, which can be a quality contribution to solutions, legal certainty, the effectiveness of action freely state. I'm a man of dialogue whatever we're saying right now, whether we met or not. I think you can recognize that clearly enough. Let us try to find solutions that will benefit the Croatian economy, which will show the political maturity of Croatian political parties and institutions at the moment when we need to show it together. This is what everyone, everyone who is watching this debate, everyone and the commentators and voters and business people and farmers and suppliers and banks and those who have been brought with the greatest expertise and reputation to help restructure everyone is looking at what we're made of now. Everyone sees and expects whether we are ready for a joint effort that carries both certain and responsibilities and risks. But dear colleagues and colleagues, we have no choice. It's our job to act. You've also heard from respected professors it would be against constitutionally not to do anything. That would be the worst. And that is why I appeal to you to contribute to the quality of this law to your discussions, but also to your suggestions. But even in the subsequent process, there is room in the religious council for all groups of believers. There is room in the Advisory Council for all those who can make a quality contribution to the process that will eventually be before us if the law applies and that is the point, that is the key. I would now ask Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Dalic to refer to some specific provisions of this law, and I call on all of us to have political wisdom and responsibility at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35644	Thank you very much. Well, I'd say the most important provisions of this law are how to activate the application of this law, the bodies in the process and finally its objective. So maybe we should start with this last one. The purpose of the extraordinary administration procedure is to reach a settlement, to reach a settlement within 12 months which can be extended by a decision of the court by another three months. I stress that the aim of this law is also to achieve this process that the law proposes to reach a settlement amongst the creditors on the future of the business of society in such a way that this society should continue to be able to operate in a sustainable and financially stable manner. I stress this problem and the purpose of the law regarding reaching a settlement because in its essence this is not a bankruptcy law, this is not a parallel bankruptcy law and this is not a law in which you define the way the creditors will settle. This is a law laying down the procedure, which provides systemicly significant companies with time for companies to reach a settlement in the prescribed procedure and with the participation of the body of the settlement and with the participation of the body of the procedure. The extraordinary administration process itself opens up in a way that the opening of this procedure may be requested by the debtor or the opening of that procedure may be requested by the creditors, with the consent of the debtor. If a systemically significant company faces any pre-determined, be it for bankruptcy reasons, or if it is in deep financial difficulties. The reason why the opening of the procedure may be requested by the debtor, or by the debtor, with the consent of the debtor, is a double. On the one hand, the leading role of the debtors in requiring the opening of this procedure, i.e. the credentials with its consent, shall be ensured by the legality and conformity of this procedure with the Constitution. Because this prevents malignancy from treating the debtor while maintaining the effectiveness and effectiveness of the procedure. Believers remain on their own when this law comes into force if you vote by your creditors on their own, have the opportunity to request through the bankruptcy law protection of their claims in the manner prescribed by the Banking Act, but under the proposed transitional and final provisions, that bankruptcy will be directed by the court under official duty by this law if the company for which the bankruptcy is required meets the criteria of 5000 employees and a billion euros in debt. On the other hand, in order to initiate this process, it requires relatively simple documentation just so that in the event of deep financial difficulties, systemically significant companies can act quickly. And the simplicity of that documentation and the speed of the procedure are then combined with the way this procedure can be initiated. The bodies in the extraordinary administration process are an extraordinary commissioner, they are a court, they are a Religious Council and an advisory council. An extraordinary commissioner shall appoint a court in which the court shall, after having received a request for the opening of the extraordinary administration procedure, invite the Government to propose an extraordinary commissioner. The reason why this law provides for a provision that the Government proposes an extraordinary commissioner stems from the expected complexity and complexity of the procedure and the settlement process in the case of companies of companies that are so complex that they have this previously mentioned number of employees, and the assumed complexity of financial relations within the company that eventually led to its problems. In this way, an extraordinary commissioner shall be a person of professional, professional, moral and any other public reputation supported by the authority of the court and supported by the authority of the Government and its proposal to guarantee the impartiality, professionality and expertise of the overall process of the extraordinary administration. And so, one of the most important tasks of an extraordinary commissioner is to select within 30 days a restructuring adviser identified by the bill as a legal person with international reference in the restructuring process. The restructuring adviser is a legal person with the highest professional reference to support an extraordinary commissioner in the analysis of the situation, in determining the real situation in the company and giving him support in making and proposing a settlement. Therefore, the choice and quality of restructuring advisers is almost as important as the quality and choice of the extraordinary commissioner himself. Of course, the extraordinary Commissioner has his deputies, and the possibility of deputies who are elected in the same procedure as the Commissioner himself is foreseen, so he chooses from the court on a proposal from the Government. The Court of Justice is a very significant participant throughout the process, given that the most significant decisions of the Commissioner, as well as the settlement itself, which must and can only be concluded with the agreement of the credentials and at least 66.6% of all claims, are confirmed by the Court of Justice. The Religious Council is the body through which creditors participate in the extraordinary administration process. The Sanhedrin Council is formed as a temporary Religious Council within a very short period of time since the opening of the extraordinary settlement process, according to the state of the search, the found state of the search in the company's books. The reason is that it is precisely the one to ensure that believers are brought into the process as soon as possible. The Board of Trustees shall be formed in its permanent composition and shall be formed in its permanent structure after the claims have been uncontested, or after the court has taken a decision on the established claims. The heart of this law is the possibility that an extraordinary commissioner, on behalf of the company over which this process is opened, will take credit and pay off the demand for goods and services created by the date of opening the procedure or the payment of the supplier. It's the heart of this law and such a loan then has the status of the oldest demand. This law combines experience from our practice, but also experience from the practices of other countries that have faced problems of system important companies, such as Italy, such as Austria. By combining these experiences, I believe that we have received an effective instrument in case problems arise with such companies that require the protection of the law. And therefore I ask you to accept this law and support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35645	I also thank the vice presidents of the government. Here's before we move on to replicas just a few pieces of information. So far, 35 speakers have applied for the debate, which individual debates, we have at the presentation of Prime Minister 27 replicas and the presentation of Deputy Prime Minister 4 replicas. So here we go with the replicas. He's the first respected colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35646	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister. I do not agree to share and take responsibility for the bad decisions you make on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, especially those aimed at the benefit of a company, one of the narrow interests of a small number of people and that problem that has escalated during your and past government. This is the law on Agrokor, this is the law on Todorovic, this is the law you want to conceal as the problem has arisen, as the problem has escalated, you want to conceal your government's interest in Agrokor. Your government is connected to Agrokora with the umbilical cord. And that's the intensity of this law, and that's why I don't want to share or take responsibility with you. You don't care through this law about those smallest suppliers, you don't care through this law or those who work in Agrokor. And what is the umbilical connection of your government to Agrokora we can speak here for hours. We have indications that both your and previous government has contributed to the whole series of acts that the situation in Agrokor is escalating, about the prolongat of the factoring law, to the Accounting Act, to this I want your answer here whether Minister Maric, who came from Agrokor, decided anything. Does he decide when and how the state's obligations to Agrokor will be blocked? All in Croatia see that [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] The umbilical link between the government of Andrej Plenkovic and Agrokor, unfortunately unbreakable. [[Intruder Jandroković: A colleague of Maras...]] Thank you, gentlemen, but this must be heard by Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35647	Okay, thank you very much, fellow Maras. I beg your pardon, Prime Minister only. So just a little please. Given the number of people who responded to the replicas, we'll stick to it strictly for two minutes. I think that's correct, and we'll insist on that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35648	My colleague Maras, I have to admit neither the Croatian public nor the parliamentary majority, and neither do I. We didn't expect anything better from you. So, you're pretending, you're turning into the champion of the SDP demagogy. Tell me and my government that we have a cord tied to Agrokor, tell the Croatian public that this is the Ivica Todorovic and Agrokor law. Did you read the law? Yes, it is. Then you have a problem understanding, a problem logic, a problem understanding the seriousness of the situation in which Croatia is located. My government and HDZ haven't received a single kuna since I run it, not just from Agrokor, not a single company that's connected to it. You are referring to Minister Maric, who has exempt himself from all decisions concerning any debate in my government with this law that we are talking about today. So stop with the demagogy. I appeal to you as a man who has received the trust of Croatian voters and does not discuss what is irrelevant, but concentrate on what is important. This law is an important colleague of Maras for the Croatian economy. It's also important for you to get paid tomorrow. Is it important that any employee in Konzum gets their salary tomorrow? Will there be a Croatian newspaper at the Tisca kiosks? It is important for every farmer who through his OPG is a supplier. He's important to all of us. And these insinuations stop placing in the Croatian public and focus on the point. That's my friendly advice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35649	So before we go to the replicas, colleague Maras and all the others who fall in with very inappropriate raids in the exposure of others. I'm asking you to stop and talk culturally and politely. Here's my application and appeal. Second replica, dear colleague Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35650	Dear Prime Minister, you've usually spoken very well of your smooth European bureaucratic language, and you haven't touched yourself to be the core of this law. And then I'll have a common sense of facts. So by law, you are destroying legal certainty for investing in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, by law, do you agree and let me tell you in what way? Very simple. The total debts of Agrokor are therefore 45 billion kuna in harsh. Of which your banks are exposed to 22 billion kunas, factoring society with 2 billion kunas. That's 24. There are still big suppliers with six billion kunas, and that's 30. Under the proposal of your conclusion and your law, this very narrow group will dictate this procedure. So there won't be any small suppliers here, there won't be any farms, there won't be anyone here, because the big ones are going to raise the majority. Furthermore, what scenario A, what scenario B? Without the adoption of this or similar law, there is no salvation to Agror, no salvation to the Consuma. How about I tell you why? Who's gonna give the money if it doesn't have a senorita rule? What financial institution will invest money in a failed concert if no law guaranteeing seniority is passed? But not this law that you're proposing, but what we've been saying for three weeks, and we're talking about changing the bankruptcy law and bringing in two categories. One category is precisely seniority, and another category is the clustering of suppliers in several groups. And lastly, I suggest you name Zdravko Marić a special commissioner in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35651	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35652	First, my colleague Hajdash Doncic, if you need an interpreter for what I'm saying, and I've heard that the Zagorci were always good with the Croats, and you should understand what I'm saying well, then we have a big problem that you as a minister failed to understand what I was saying in the opening part of the presentation by explaining this law. It is now very little I have to admit underestimatingly to both the Croatian public and to me as Prime Minister and be a little more careful in these comments because they are neither founded nor logical. As for the status of the oldest demand and legal certainty. Legal certainty is a colleague of Doncic's third fundamental pillar of the government's work programme. We have also taken into account the constitutionality and other regulations governing this matter by taking due note of the formulations in this law. The fact that, as you say, foreign investors might be concerned because there is a senior status here so don't understand me, senior status. You think foreign investors, thinking about whether they're going to enter a country to do business that lets uncontrollable developments of this kind of situation think that country is great. If it happens to me tomorrow they won't react, they won't recognize what's important about the one who's willing to give fresh money under these circumstances. What do you think? Have you read the law? Is there a provision in there about the oldest demand you can tell your colleague Doncic if he has or isn't? There is. You're saying the right things, the right things, and this for an extraordinary commissioner of suggestion, I'm going to consider your suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35653	Thank you very much. Third replica, dear colleague Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35654	... Prime Minister. First, it's not time for boastfulness, arrogance, translators and every man to give you any replica to spend for the first 15 seconds on his demeaning is it not a dialogue and don't do it. Secondly, I'll read you your finance minister's statement of 26.1. "Is Agrokor in front of bankruptcy? I certainly wouldn't say that, I'm familiar with the state of the company because I've worked there and worked as a minister of finance to care and follow as well as any other company. I think they indicated in the statement that there is no risk of a commitment in due course, but surely this fact of a credit rating reduction will have some repercussion. The company is still in good shape and nothing will come." 26.1. You're calling me for a dialogue today. A month ago I offered myself, a month ago I offered myself, and I told people, but the alarming situation is, call the opposition, let's call the creditors, the creditors, the suppliers, a month ago. And you're calling today for the approval of billions of kuna blockades, suppliers are blocking, people don't know they're gonna get paid. You're calling for consent today, you've lost months, while you've been working on archives, commissions for the past, while you've been going to local campaigns, a month ago I called for the opposition's consent, praying here in front of the assembly, said I'm standing at the disposal of the people it's alarming to deal with, not to close my eyes. What's the result of today's situation? That they were all blocked, that the state had charged 600 million kuna in the period of the blockade until the suppliers had received kunas. The tax administration took out 600 million kuna suppliers. Frank's blocked today, according to the law. Well, of course it's legal. Should we have had short-term measures? We did. And don't be hypocritical today, and don't call anyone who gives you a replica, but let's be honest, we're in trouble because of your credible indecisiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35655	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35656	You were at her colleague Vrdoljak's meeting on Friday constructive, likable, kind that you couldn't have been nicer, offer me Superman as an extraordinary commissioner. Is it true? ... Did you offer Superman an extraordinary commissioner? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no, you said you had Superman as an extraordinary commissioner. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35657	Well, he's right and you're right about him...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35658	And what did you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35659	Well, you said there was no haughtiness, so calm down. Come on, calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35660	Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35661	Prime Minister, I'm asking only. So the words used are hard, the subject is hard, you're all interested in the office, but don't get in. These are the verbal figures you use. So please don't get into the word, when it's done, you can have ways of talking later and looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's a whole series of methods that you can get to the word, but please don't get into each other's words, that's all I'm asking you to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35662	It's a good light, it stops time, it's like basketball, there's no dirty game, if you know what I mean. Comrade Vrdoljak, let's clarify how the IRS works. You were the minister, no, no, the Croatian public needs to know how the IRS works. At the time when any company initiates the blockade of another company, and it is established at that time, the Tax Administration, in particular with large taxpayers, has a special dialogue and knows exactly at which point a tax liability has arrived, there is no colleague Vrdoljak and do not accuse the state, right to arbitration, the right to choose whether or not it will start to collect its due claims. These people will be held accountable, professionally liable if they don't, they'll do damage to the state budget. They don't have a choice. All other companies on the market have the right to choose when and in what way they will go in their claim and which way. Tax administration doesn't have that choice. And don't, therefore, create perceptions in people to appeal to the patientness of suppliers while the state is blocking them at the same time. Free to say the state didn't start first, these are facts that the people that work in the IRS had no choice. The second thing, this government and its experts have worked day and night for the past month to produce the most qualitative legal solution under these circumstances. And don't call us for some sort of passivity, for some kind of indecision. This is a respected colleague, Vrdoljak, active, determined and only possible move by the responsible state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35663	Thank you. 4th replica, distinguished colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35664	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, you are calling for a dialogue, and at a meeting on lex Agrokor you invited your colleagues from the opposition at 1 5 to 1 in order to arrive at 1 in 15, it really shows how you were prepared to talk. All that's happening today is actually a credible proof of your unbelief. And we are in trouble today precisely because throughout your term, and the Minister of Finance has been in that term for 15 months, working not transparently, there is a constant conflict of interest in your government, in your government you have late decisions and in your government you are constantly protecting through conflict of interest large capital. This law that we have here today, as you said, is a law that does not protect Todorovic, not protect Agrokor, but protects workers and farmers. The Croatian public, the Croatian cashier at Konzum and the Croatian farmer in the village who barely survives should be told that it is a lie. That's not true. This law protects only large capital, protects the big boss and protects the big managers who have been through a consortium connected to the big boss. The people say who once burns that smoke to the cold. Unfortunately, that is not the case in Croatia. In the 1990s, you destroyed the HDZ 400, 1000 jobs, citizens still trust you, and today we have a situation that will fail, that this series of privatisations will end with the collapse of Agrokor. There's a lot of similarities with '87. Then there was Agro-Comertz and Grandma. Grandma ended up flying in Volosko. Now we have Agrokor, and his boss will probably end up in Medvei, too. So, Mr Plenkovic, this is also the consequence of your model walk in Ukraine, this is actually a problem that you are no longer doing your traineeship for the European Commission so well, so this traineeship raises questions about what you really want to escape to the European Commission from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35665	Replication response. Prime Minister, respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35666	Yeah, I have to admit, whoever picks up all the expectations. I feel like I've already written your toking points what you're going to tell Mr. Jovanovic. That's pretty much how it works for you. So, the work of this government on this subject is responsible and effective and reasonable and inspired by the legal solutions that exist in other countries, it is in line with the Croatian Constitution and will be 100% your claim and approved that it is also in line with the EU acquis. Your adjudication to Ukraine and it's really annoying, I have to admit it's annoying. It's annoying of you, it's annoying of the uninvited commentators. Telling some government I'm walking around Ukraine and you don't know shit. You have no idea about foreign policy! You obviously have no idea about international law. You obviously don't know what the '45 international order is based on. A year? On territorial integrity, it is based on a colleague, Jovanovic in respect of international obligations [[/Intruder Jandrokovic: I beg you. So what is it? I beg you!]] It is based on responsible policy and what is crucial for Croatia to help experiences that are unique in its foreign-political activities. [[/Intruder Jandrokovic: Well, you have offended as well. So please, please stop.]] If there is one of you who believes that the experience of peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube in any segment is not an experience that Croatia as the youngest member of the EU, the only member, Cyprus abstract, who had occupied areas just 25 years ago needed a state that recognised us as the first member of the UN in '91. the years do not offer their experiences of peaceful reintegration. Then Mr. Jovanovic and I are fundamentally diverged about what we do and how we behave. I came back, dear Mr. Jovanovic from Brussels to come here Not to go back. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] It's a very important message. Don't manipulate the public with tiny jumps.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35667	Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Jovanovic is the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35668	So, I'd like to ask you to warn and give the Prime Minister a heads-up because he demeans and insults the other MPs, Article 238. So in his resignation he demeaned and insulted me as a representative of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35669	Well, I don't think it's about hurting the Rules of Procedure because you've been speaking the same hard words and you've spoken to the Prime Minister. So let's choose the way we're going to conduct this debate. Either we will be careful and use selected words to each other or we will argue with heavy weapons that both sides do. So I'm letting you go, I'm letting the Prime Minister go, and that's what I'm gonna keep going for. Second violation of the Rules of Procedure of Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35670	Thank you very much. He's also injured 238. The reason is the constant insult of the prime minister, the MP. It escalated now with counterpart Jovanovic when he told him he had no idea about foreign policy, and I will say here that you have no idea about the economy. It's a much more dangerous thing in this situation. You have no idea. about the economy, which is a testimony today, a situation that is happening in the Croatian economy, Agrokor and all these companies that are in the blockade [[Intruder Jandroković: My colleague Maras please!]] And you, Mr. Vice President, have invited us to discuss this. [[Intruder Jandroković: A colleague of Maras!]] It's your fault. Because if Mr. Prime Minister told Mr. Jovanovic this, then I have every right to say what I mean. [[Intruder Jandroković: Good.]] And that's that he has no idea about the economy. [[Intruder Jandroković: Good thing you didn't ask me to hurt the Rules of Procedure, not the replica, or the exposure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35671	So please. Please, this is an important topic and the eyes of the public are facing the Croatian Parliament today. By our behavior, we will also send our performances a message whether we are serious or trying to extract from this a few cheap political points. So I ask and call you to account for what we do and, of course, responsibility for what we say. We're moving on with the replicas. The fifth is a distinguished colleague of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35672	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister. I have to admit that your debate was in some way typical HDZ, and I'll tell you why. Because in your discussion, you and your attitude have been characterized as a division. But disagreement with the ruling majority's stance is something the opposition's constitutional obligation. But at this point, it's a lot more than that. Do not agree with you today, do not agree with you about the adoption of this law is my obligation to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to the employees, but not only of Agrokor but of Frank, Kras and all other companies that are being blocked today. And why is that? Because it's you who share. And you're dividing by this very law, because by this law you're going to as politics, you're going as a government to appoint a man who will decide who will survive and who will fail. Dear Mr. President, today we were called by the workers of Belja and complained that no one had contacted them or tried to explain to them what this law, nor Agrokor, nor Todoric, nor the bank, nor you, Mr. Prime Minister, would mean to them. Mr. President, the impact assessment of this law, and we're talking about the metrics, we're talking about his latest article, you left for 2019, so you predicted that only in 2019 will we assess how this regulation affects the Croatian economy as a whole. I ask you, have you at least tried to assess how many people are going to lose their jobs because of this law, how many people are going to stay in their homes because of you and not be able to pay their dues, and probably lose their homes tomorrow? Your Honor, Mr. President, I wonder if you'll suggest an equal emergency like this and a law that will protect them? [[Intrudica Jandroković: Thank you very much, fellow coat of arms.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35673	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35674	Thank you, comrade Grbin. So first I look back at this comment that seems relevant to me, which is White. Here is the Minister of Agriculture who is in contact with the President of the Board of Belja, who looks at how to get rid of those important, essential elements concerning the supply of food to those companies that are within the framework of Agrokor that would allow both cattle and pigs to be fed on time, so that's the first. Second. As for your other comments and this law and the way he prepares and his goals. So it is precisely the purpose of the government's activation of the state, of the government's activism to enable the equal position of all stakeholders in the process. If the Government is activated, is it not logical that if it proposes a competent extraordinary commissioner, its deputies, if the Commercial Court approves it and decides then someone who comes with such a title, with such a goal from the state's engagement angle has the largest picture, has the best will and obligation to look at meeting the objectives, the interests of all stakeholders of the process by workers, employees, farmers, the CAPs, suppliers, Agrokor suppliers, the company itself, and, of course, the credit institutions that are important because without their fresh liquidity it is difficult to move into the restructuring process. This is a esteemed colleague of the coat of arms and the intention of this law and its engagement. We'll estimate the impact when the first such process that we haven't had is gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35675	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35676	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, in his opening speech, you have said a dozen thesis that could put you in line for the most responsible Croatian prime ministers so far, but only on one condition, which is that they were not spoken on April 5th but on March 5th. You mentioned Moodys, in Croatia it is a public secret that the problem with Agrokora is so great that the worst scenario is expected since early December. Your ministers must have known that Agrokor's leadership had begun to be in debt with its suppliers. Your ministers knew that on January 2nd, Moodys crashed the credit rating of Agrodor from B2 to B3, and on February 24th, Moodys crashed that credit rating with negative perspectives. Only 290.3 after Moodys brought it down into the mud at CAA1 and said there was absolutely no more chance of positive developments. Your government made a decision last Friday to adopt the draft of this law. And instead of meeting us here on Saturday morning, we're here on Wednesday. You act like you have all the time in this world, and it took a month ago when we were all aware that the thing went so far that it couldn't be controlled anymore unless the government stood on its feet and threatened by such a law, and there's been any question since then whether it should have been passed. But it should have been a threat to all those who would have violated the bargaining process, so instead of owning all the stakeholders a month ago, you're only doing it now, that's what this is about. You're late and now we're warning you, we've got Borovo, we've got Petrochemy. We have Djuru Djakovic, I hope you don't sleep in your winter sleep again. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35677	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35678	Dear colleague Beus Richembergh. So a lot of what the government is doing is public, a lot of it is on the Internet, a lot of it is visible to everyone. A lot of hours, a lot of night hours, a lot of conversations, a lot of dialogues, a lot of checking out information with the company, with creditors, with suppliers, with farmers, is done by the Internet. You don't think we've been working on this, you think the law has been written out of itself in one night? Dear colleague Beus Richembergh, we do it responsibly, and when we made it quite clear that we were working on a legal proposal as you could and saw the process between the company and between the creditors accelerated, they didn't slow down, they accelerated, and that's the point. It's a private company that's been finding funding sources so far without asking the government. She didn't ask you or me, you know that. We reacted in a timely manner, we reacted openly, we reacted as we can through a legal solution that is in accordance with other regulations and that allows in case these companies are applied with the consent of the debtor to either the debtor or the debtor, but we always, with agreement, delegate in the only correct way that we can and which the responsible state works. In this process you can participate, you can help. That's your choice now. Neither you nor I can give back time. We could go back a lot of years. But what we can do is act today and act pro futuro. That's what I can do and that's why we're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35679	Thank you very much. One notice before the next replicas. So, members of the board of joint thematic session of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget will be held today at 14 o'clock in the Chamber Ivan Mažuranić, so here is a notice to the board members. The seventh replica of the distinguished colleague Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35680	Dear Prime Minister, Vice President of the Parliament. That we as the Liberal Party support your attempt to solve the problem and this law is the Law on Agrokor and should not run away from calling it that, although the Constitutional Court will probably have something to say about the law that we will bring, or which you will thus bring. But what bothers us most in the HNS is that for the past two months clearly journalists of various portals and journalists of daily newspapers and commentators know what's going on in Agrokor, and your finance minister who's been the executive director of that same company for a number of years doesn't know or pretend he didn't know or didn't say in time, and I think that's what you should have told you on the first day you sat down at the head of this government, to see what's going on in Agrokor and that as responsible prime minister, you start taking action not to get what's happened now. And it's actually a teaming, or time you've spent, that you haven't used the worst thing in the whole story, because it's obvious that the journalists know better than all of us together again, so we see news coming from hour to hour that it's slowly chaos. It means that the creditors are slowly sitting, blocking, blocking accounts, that nothing or almost nothing has been done in the meantime. And now you come to us with the law and beg us here for a consensus, please let us all support this. I think the responsible prime minister still had the authority to act [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you very much.]] much earlier and much more responsible for this problem. [[Intruding Jandroković: Dear colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35681	I would ask you to stick to those two minutes and don't ignore me when I warn you, because I'm gonna have to reach out for the microphone shut down. I'm not gonna kick you out. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35682	Okay, here's what you've actually supported the law and its adoption, so here's what we'd like you to do quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35683	Thank you very much. The eighth replica, dear colleague Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35684	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, you said that it wasn't a law passed for only one company, and really here in the explanation it says it's about 10 companies and now it's still listed or related companies. Well, I would be interested in myself, and I believe the Croatian public, which is nine others. We know that Agrokor one refers to this bill, which is related to societies and which, potentially, when you passed the law, you probably considered that part. So what other nine societies do. The fact is that when we list only 9 companies, when we look at the Croatian economy, it is mostly medium and small entrepreneurship that prevails. This is where you put this bill in an unequal position against constitutional and other companies which also do not have a systemically important denominator but are strategically important. Furthermore, I fully understand the number of ministers and ministers, or Deputy Prime Minister. In my opinion here on your defense team of this law and I believe that even if it were present here it would be Mr. Zdravko Marić's Minister of Finance primarily for the reason that you projected here that there is no, there is no need to engage in the budget additional funds for this, and you bind the impact assessment to 2019. I would like to know how much this law will cost Croatian citizens or taxpayers if it is necessary to activate it. Furthermore, the next link on your team that I miss here with you is Minister of Property Goran Maric because by the logic of things if this law will come into force, it will have to be applied. I believe that given the content of the law and the intensity of the law, Agrokor will fall under his portfolio.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35685	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35686	Thank you very much, dear colleague. 10 companies important that the public knows and maybe I should have said it in the introduction and I appreciate that you asked. Agrokor, INA, HEP, Zagreb Holding, Croatian Post Office, Croatian Forests, HZ Infrastructure, Podravka, Adris, Atlantic are shareholders regardless of whose ownership they are. No matter whose property they're in, I'm telling you what it's got to do with whose property they're owned if they're stock companies. No, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter, and you can't share them like that. Read the ZTD. So, as far as your appeals to the Minister of Finance are concerned, you can see that here are the Minister of Justice, Minister of Labour, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Economy. We even had a debate to bring the entire government, everyone was ready to come. I got a call from the ministers if they needed to come. Yes, it's an important message, a message primarily of loyalty, solidarity and understanding of the importance of this entire complex of issues that are on the agenda, so you can say state property, but at this point you're keeping an account of Agrokor's private company in the 95% ownership of one person. Therefore, what is the essence of this story, a respected colleague, are the consequences of the current situation in the company on the Croatian economy and on the Croatian financial system and on jobs and on workers, employees, their salaries. That's the point of this law, it's important that you recognize it and understand it. That's what this law is all about. The aim of the law is to protect the Croatian economy. I repeat, the basic task of the text that is before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35687	Thank you. The 9th replica of the esteemed colleague Panenić. But since he's not here, he's losing his right to speak. 10th is Honorable colleague Vedran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35688	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Prime Minister. I can say that you are brave when you speak for the acquisition of events that happen and follow in the media that this is not the law for Agrokor and Todorovic, but I believe that time will show its own. I'm curious. I'd like you to explain to me, in fact, one fact that you're passing by this law. During the 15-month management of the extraordinary administration, is aware that the IRS will not be able to find out what is going on and what is going to happen in Agrokor and what may result, or what is the most responsible that they will be able to do in those 15 months when they are in some way unprotected. Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35689	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35690	An esteemed colleague, a law but in no way derivatives the tax administration's rights or in any way exempts the company from paying tax obligations. It's not clear to me how you read it, but it's simply not true, nor is that the purpose of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35691	Thank you very much. 11th Replicated colleague Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35692	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister. Everyone here spoke about a rhetoric that is acceptable to him and a way that is equally talk about responsibility. Otherwise, I think responsibility is extremely important and it is important that we adapt to the situation through this responsibility. It seemed to me that the last three months have been staring at the fact that what's right and what happens when kids play hide-and-seek so she thinks there's nothing going to be and I kind of wanted to point the question to you in that sense to whom it's responsibility and what it is. However, thanks to my colleagues who had asked questions before me, Zagreb Holding was mentioned, so of course it sounded very much in my ears, so I am very interested in these ten companies, including Zagreb Holding, and since, as in the opening section, it is said that the aim of this law is to prevent the negative consequences of overall economic, social and financial stability in the Republic of Croatia. After all, you may know something about Zagreb Holding which we do not know, so it would be good to hear from this place that we do not have any story of Agrokora again, but this time it could be a story in the immediate vicinity and related to the city of Zagreb. Well, here's the thing with the Zagreb Holding that we don't know, and maybe it's time to find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35693	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35694	Thank you very much. The esteemed MPs, Dark Taritash. I appreciate your candidacy for the mayor of Zagreb, I don't know if my colleague Prgomet is here or not so he can ask some questions about the campaign in the city of Zagreb, it's ok. So why did I mention Zagreb Holding? So you remember, and you've read, I'm sure you seem to be reading carefully the texts and the laws, that you saw that it's about the criteria of those companies that have more than 5,000 employees. And I'm sure you know everything about Holding much better than I do and if there was something you'd have already indicated it somewhere in your presentation program. Therefore, in order for a society of systemic importance to fall under the provisions of this law at all, it must also have this other criterion which is cumulative. I don't have that kind of knowledge. Maybe you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35695	Thank you. Let's go to the 12th line, dear colleague Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35696	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable fellow parliamentary deputies, distinguished ministers, dear Mr Plenkovic. I'm glad you're calling for a reunion today. I'm sorry that it hasn't been the case about some things in the past 25 years when you've had the opportunity to call for a common ground in the very initials of these problems that we all have to suffer today and that you represent as state-of-the-art problems affecting the whole state and which are minor to the state of emergency. So if this is really a state of emergency, then you don't have to ask for unity of all but resign and let the Croatian Parliament appoint a government of national unity or you may call us back into a one-party system which is somehow a return in time. Returning to past times is State intervention. If we're going to talk about ideology, political ideologies, not Ustashas and partisans, then every intervention of the state in private property is equal to socialism or socialist self-government, or some of the variants that we've had to look at up to this year, which is written above the seat of the President of the Parliament, which is 1990. If anyone is right, and I agree that we have the right to seek co-ownership or ownership of Agrokora, then it is the Croatian State. Try to calculate how many tens of billions of kuna Agrokor has been given through incentives from various ministries, and most of all from the Ministry of Agriculture and whether this is worth investing in the Croatian State and Croatian taxpayers so that we can now, as well as the Russian state bank, seek ownership, place for us to pass such laws as I repeat again, in a way, a return to socialism. So if you pass this law anyway, and you won't have the opposition's hands I'm convinced of, at least not the HSS, then today I will congratulate you all on your return to socialist governance. And if you bring that law I bring you personally I will no longer address you personally, or the Ministry of Economy with... [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35697	Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much. [[Whitefish, you can't hear.]] You're very wise. You just passed 27 seconds. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35698	Then what should I call Mr. Antu Milovic to ask him for advice on what it's like to be president of the executive council? Mr. Beljak, I've been saying it all the time before the election and before the campaign that HSS of all parties is our cousin, cousin, whatever you want. I mean HDZ and our political family. But I must admit that your personal creativity exceeds my expectations, exceeds. Here I have to admit that the second time your representatives were with us as last week here Miro was at a congress in Malta, I couldn't possibly get the impression that you were thinking about HDZ and our government, about today's Croatia what you've now said as party president. And I have to admit to the dichotomy of what today's HSS is when I go around Croatia and when I talk to your members it rings, rings, explodes. They do not know whether to follow you in your logic, in your efforts, in your direction, or to follow your program, your belongings, your values, what most Croatian peasant party voters find, and these are the values of the right center. And this insinuation, imagine your intervention. You're yelling for what? You are crying out for nationalization, de facto it was the point of your exposure when you talk about how to turn subsidies into subsidization. I would sort of understand what you were going to say, and at the same time the law you have before you, which respects the right of ownership, which is in accordance with the Constitution you declare now quote you under the supposed socialist management. So much creativity, so much indifference from the president of one party who has five MPs in the Croatian Parliament I personally for many years in this House I haven't heard, and I have to admit I didn't expect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35699	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished colleague of Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35700	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Prime Minister and members and members of the Government. Article 232. I would really like to ask you to ask Mr. Prime Minister to stick to the subject we need to discuss. His personal experiences with Malta etc., the evaluation as much as any of us here deserves or disrespect I think you are obliged to ensure and that Mr Plenkovic should know that he is a guest here in this House, and that we are elected representatives and cannot evaluate us, can't disrespect us and can't keep on saying every sentence that any of us pronounces here have a regular assessment of the value of these replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35701	Thank you very much. I estimate there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but there was an answer to the replica. If you think it was the opposite, you can contact the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35702	I am obliged, of course, to announce that I will address the committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35703	Well done. The thirteenth replica of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35704	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, this is not a law for 10 companies or any company, this is a law for one man. And you need to tell the public the truth that one man has turned not only one of his companies but all of Croatia into his hostage. And this man must leave both the governance structure and the ownership structure of Agrokor if we want Agrokor to survive and that Croatia has minimal consequences. I understand that you now want to share responsibility with the SDP because they have kind of assisted in all this with you. But you invited us, and you invited all the Living Wall to take political responsibility for what has been going on in Croatia for the past 27 years. Thanks exclusively to and above all to the role of your party, it is truly embarrassing in its own way. You created Mr. Todorovic and this situation in which we find ourselves illegally converting and privatizing, avoiding punishment for war profit, political bargaining, forgiving debts, financing the tycoon with budget money. Your party created what kind of Gucci, Kutle, Globus Group, Nadana, Jose and now you have the cheeks after all to ask that Croatian citizens are all equally responsible for your missed policy. Have courage, Mr. Prime Minister, and clear the air on your own. You know where it all started and you know where it's gonna end. As long as Mr. Todorovic is in Agrokor, no solution will be possible until then. You created the bosses, you gave authority, so now you have to move them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35705	Thank you very much. Would you like a reply to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35706	Thank you for the presentation. I am responsible for my government, for my mandate as president of HDZ, and I find and propose solutions that are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, all in accordance with the principle of rule of law and the non-limiting of freedom given to us by the Constitution, rather than responsible behaviour in exceptional circumstances. That's the point of this law and that's the point. Therefore, whether your opinion of today's situation will stretch and for the past 30 years it is your right. It's my responsibility for the future, and that's why this law is before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35707	Thank you. The fourteenth replica is an esteemed colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35708	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, as much as you think this is a law for 10 companies this will be and will be called lex Todorovic as all previous laws and it is a reason for this law to be passed, so the events in Agrokor are a reason for this law to be passed, not some other companies. So Todorovic and the state of Croatia were in a great godmotherhood, so at the time when, of course, Mr. Todorovic was solving the problems of this country when he took over Belje, he bought it for 500 million kuna in the fall of that year and received 750 million kuna incentives for planting the plantations. And it's a great symbiosis and let's not run away from it, so it worked all these years and guarantees for loans etc. However, we do not now have to justify ourselves and call for constitutional principles of social justice, justice and proportionality, but we are calling for something that we have failed to do. A month ago, two finance departments, or the IRS, failed to launch a pre-demand settlement, and all of this wouldn't be here. And it wouldn't be if we had a Slovenian forced settlement or a mandatory pre-demand settlement, which we don't have, so we're jeopardizing entire systems, endangering people, jeopardising their wages, endangering neither the wrong nor the debt of the cattle that has no food, it's the current situation. And even better would be what you yourself said nationalization than a state in which no one has control. And a proposal in the end, Mr. Ante Milovic has been dead since 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35709	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35710	I know it very well, I've cartooned it, his daughter went to parallel class with me, so you shouldn't have said it, but I had to say it in the context of Mr. Beljak. We'll talk to her later on for coffee, really, like, facebook, Twitter, the champion of the world is really. [[Intruder Jandroković: colleague Maras.]] You're the strongest. As for the presentation of colleagues, we are doing what is now responsible, we do not have the same regulations as Slovenia. I think that everything this government has done over the past few weeks, months in terms of public communication has been about bringing the financial market, the capital market, in any way not to bring about some big tremor, a tremor that would reduce the value of any company's shares, vice versa. We did everything that was reasonable and appealed by talking to the shareholders, to all of them. At the moment when someone else started the blockades, the IRS had no choice, no dilemmas and does what it had to do and what it was legal, and no one called those people to do anything, nor did they ask anyone anything, so you need to know that. My government works that way. I'm not the prime minister who's gonna give the order, hello Tax Administration let a little or hello Tax Administration do something, I'm not working, I'm telling you what it is. So, secondly, you say what to call the law, we can call it given its importance for the Croatian economy and lex OPG and lex Frank, lex Vindy, lex Podravka whatever you want, they're all about this law, get to know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35711	Thank you very much. Next replica, distinguished colleague Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister with the ministers. Actually, I'd like to ask you to explain something that's been said and what's in this law. The State appoints or proposes, and the court then appoints a Commissioner, under this law. Does this mean, and I ask you a unanimous answer, does this mean that by appointing that commissioner who, like the Deputy Prime Minister, can then also take on new loans, does this mean that the state is taking over from that moment on and all financial obligations? Does the state now become the main debtor? You started your exposure with a sentence, the function of this law is also the protection of taxpayers, this is exactly the opposite of the protection of taxpayers because if the state takes over the appointment of commissioners, takes over all financial obligations in a private company, the state has no other money than those taxpayers. So does this mean that the taxpayers will assume Todorovic's debts?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35713	Thank you very much. The most direct no, the answer is no. The point of this law is that all that we do, all this good that financial institutions, international organisations, rating agencies see GDP growth, public debt reduction, budget deficit reduction is the key. So that's the fundamental trend in the policy of this government and the direction that the state is going. The way we want to deal with this topic is that there are just any disturbances in that direction. So, the company of the concert, all its companies are legal persons, an extraordinary commissioner, its deputies take over the roles of the company's body. The state doesn't become the owner of Agrokor as some would like. Then that, in the scenario that nationalisation is absolutely, the entire debt would be a percentage of the debt of the state, it's quite clear. The point is, no. What is the key to this law? So, by very precise regulation of the protection institute of the oldest demand, you provide a legal framework in which the moment someone else comes along, someone new who has nothing to do with the obligations that occurred before. So that moment of trust, a turning point that's what I said in speech is most important. Then there can be a situation where that creditor, that bank of any country in the world, will take serious care of its interests here, makes an additional effort to stabilise its financial and economic system and to ensure that the creditor provides a new liquidity and it is not easy for the bankers to decide and give new liquidity in such situations, that his search instead of the last order will be the first. That's the point and that's the key and that's why the answer is very clear. Obligations in this scenario don't go to long states.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35714	Thank you very much. Before the sixteenth replica of fellow Muscles, only information. So there's 15 more replicas, and then we'll take a break. That's about half past two, maybe a few minutes later so you can plan your own time. We'll continue at 3:00 then. Comrade Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35715	Dear Prime Minister, I am absolutely certain that this government is not to blame for this situation in Agrokor. However, all governments so far are to blame for what has happened and what is happening today. You can't personally or this government bear responsibility, but the responsibility that the opposition is talking about is ridiculous to me as an entrepreneur when it's said that it would have been resolved that three months ago, or a month ago, the problem would have been solved. The problem can't be solved in a month, not a month, not three months ago. This problem has been under surveillance for five years, seeing that the company is in trouble. Gentlemen, why didn't we just control this company so it wouldn't get into this kind of big trouble? According to these statements today and the replicas I personally see that this is a pure populism that has nothing to do with the economy, no matter what, gentlemen... But I will give you a proposal that will be a small but certainly good one, so please, Mr. Prime Minister of all public companies, the Easter is coming to give them bonuses to buy in Agrokor, ask the Croatian citizens in Konzum pardon, to give that small part of the contribution to the company. [[You can't hear it.]] [[Intruding Brkic: Dear, stop time.]] And the people are like you said if we're ready. We are, the Croatian people are always ready. We don't have another choice, and you'll be guilty if you find a solution for this big company in the last four years. I don't think it's your fault at this point, it's all the authorities that ran this country so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35716	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed colleagues Djujic and Mateljan, I would like you. Mr. Stazic, if you want to take over the presidency freely, let the SDP decide, so you take over the presidency. I would ask you all to be at the height of this House and not simply to enter the word of our colleagues when they speak. Dear fellow Prime Minister, respond to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35717	Thank you, fellow Misic. I agree with you that someone has solved this problem before I think we'd all have less to worry about today. However, circumstances are what they are and this situation is with us. I will not promise you any miracles, but I will tell you that the goal of this government is to clear up this situation, to allow for the continued work of all companies. Here's what you mentioned about Konzum. Consume is the largest retail chain and it is precisely this sense of trust that every buyer has in his local store that is extremely important. And that's why it's important. That's why suppliers were reasonable people. They understand that moment of habit, that moment of everyday life, and that moment of purchase of what is most important to us for everyday needs. And that is why it is important to act in a way that the process of restructuring, the fresh liquidity enables these great, important, in many aspects and successful companies to do quality business and can only do so if they continue to earn. That's the key and that's why in this restructuring process we want to go in this way. Whether we're going to be guilty, successful, less successful, good, it's going to be responsible anyway. I can promise you that, according to our best expertise, we will, out of the political will and trust that we have received from the voters, do the utmost in the interest of Croatian people, Croatian states. Not some particular interest. We're here with that trust and the desire to solve the problem. Help us with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35718	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply to the replica. Next replica, distinguished colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35719	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Plenkovic, here we witness the crisis of Agrokor, has finally come to us. Your esteemed Minister, Mr. Maric, otherwise former Agrokor's employee for Christmas invented the so-called The 300 million Christmas loan was pushed through the export incentive program. Part of that money ended up in Konzum's Panda in Serbia, and the development is funded by the Star basketball club there. So, why did Mr. Maric give that loan if he knew in what state he was, after all, boasting, he knew in what state Agrokor was in if he knew he couldn't return. And that's not the first time. In that I will look back at my speech, but who knows which times to take that side. But since we've had this fight, it's an institution job. The HDZ will blame the SDP, the SDP will blame the HDZ. As far as I'm concerned, all governments so far are responsible, Todorovic is a story from the 1990s from conversion and privatisation. The three HDZ governments, the two SDP governments did not make a security assessment, brought us into the current situation, in a hostage crisis not only for us but for the entire Croatian economy. Compare these 36 billion with the expenditures of the Croatian budget 130 billion, that's not much more. Agrokor could even be compared financially to the Croatian state. That is why this law is bad and I believe it will not do anything, so I call on all of you, all of us who have the responsibility and political power to sit together and bring a solution to the rescue of the Croatian economy and above all Croatian waters, Croatian forests and fields so that someone does not ambush all these resources that will happen to us. What happens to us is what happened to T-com a few weeks ago, that the money was just before the dividends were paid out that Croatian shareholders had nothing and that they had German. That's what they're gonna do to us both with Jamnica and Belle when who knows who's ambushing us. Therefore, it must be our common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35720	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Willibor Sincic, for the replica. Answer, Honorable Prime Minister Mr. Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35721	Okay, here's to not just repeating a brief review of the HBOR. Minister Maric opted out of all HBRO decisions regarding those credit lines for exports, so HBOR does not make such decisions by calling me, so I need you to get rid of my credit. There's a credit committee watching the paperwork, seeing if there's a basis, if that makes sense, if that's supported by all the documentation that it is. All those people in charge of different HBOR bodies made such a decision as many other decisions that encouraged Croatian exports, as you constructed and where that money ended. We must admit that it seems quite interesting to me and I do not know from whom and in what way it is informed, but the HBOR makes its decisions through the bodies responsibly and seems to me completely justified and without any or any complaints. What we're doing today, we're deciding on the law that's on the table. If you have any idea, if you have any suggestions, some expert you want to consult now is a moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35722	I thank the Honorable Prime Minister for his reply to the replica. Next replica, distinguished colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35723	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic. Well, here you are, I would dare say a lot of big words, but the works behind this whole story are very, very bad. He mentioned Enron, Parmalat was mentioned, but it should be said that leading people in Enron and Parmalat after these affairs ended up in prison, while the man who was executive director in Agrokor ended up in government. You talked about equality before the law, you talked about some constitutional principles, etc., so here's the rule of law. Is it equal to the position of the entities before the law if a supplier of Agrokorov can be completed and like Frank can end up in a blockade and can be charged a bill, and at the same time Agrokor who owes him can't? So this law will protect Agrokor for God's sake, and what about suppliers? The suppliers are not protected by anyone. And another important thing, some say the media called this Lex Agrokor, I called it Lex Todorovic, I'll call him Lex Plenkovic today, and here's why. The Croatian economic system is unsustainable, when you look at the state's revenues and the debt of the state, you will see that the state is in worse shape than Todorovic Agrokor and it is much worse. The chance to pay back the debt is nothing, the state keeps in debt. The same model of funding that worked in Agrokor before the crash is now in effect in our country. And you're all here to convince us that everything is beautiful, and you're taking us all to ruin. And you don't use this law to save Agrokor because Agrokor has no salvation, no salvation. You use this law to save this economic model where you try for a short time to convince people that it is sustainable. And this story with Agrokora will end in ruin as your whole tycoon privatisation model began. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35724	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. Answer, Honorable Prime Minister Mr. Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35725	Okay, here's what I see you have suggestions on how to call the law, you can file an amendment and try to push it through the parliamentary majority. So the law that lies before all of us has one single interest, protection of the Croatian economy and financial system. You can have comments about what was before, how something happened, how the company was doing business, whether it was ideal, who it was and when it was allowed, I am giving you this freedom of analysis of comments, reviews, courts, opinions, suggestions. What we have today is a very clearly defined text that should be served by the Croatian state that, in the event of consent and the application of this law, we have mechanisms and instruments of action that are in the best interest of the Croatian people, the Croatian state, all suppliers, all companies from the smallest suppliers, suppliers to the entire company in question. You mentioned today that Frank can't do anything to Agrokor. I don't think so. Look at the current information that has already come to the public in the end, therefore any company that finds itself in such a situation, and someone who has a debtor starts a blockade can be blocked and there are no dilemmas and there is no difference. As far as this law is concerned, it deals with a company in difficulty, following criteria met under the legal framework, the Constitution and the EU acquis in a way that we have instruments to solve problems. That's the point, that's the purpose of this law no matter what his name is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35726	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35727	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, here we have heard Agrokor has over 5,000 suppliers. The meetings and arrangements are attended by about 50 of them. I am personally interested in what will happen to small businesses and what will happen to craftsmen who even have almost their own business towards Agror and do not have any other jobs? I wonder, are there measures being taken to protect them? If so, who? And I also want to know if the Croatian Chamber of crafts has also been involved in solving the problem and the agreement to help craftsmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35728	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria. The Prime Minister's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35729	The purpose of this law is to protect the little ones right now. The State intervention in this context and the purpose of proposing an extraordinary commissioner is to protect the general, broadest interest. I think it's very important that we understand. Therefore, it is not the same position in these circumstances as the bank which has credited hundreds of millions of euros or daily life, survival, craftsman, OPG, small producer, supplier, large supplier, therefore, the entire business chain. That's why there's room for all groups in the religious council. Through the Advisory Council will be able to articulate the interests of all and HGK, and the Croatian Chamber of crafts, and the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. All those who represent the interest of a wider group of political or business operators involved in this situation. That's the meaning of this law. He most, most of all goes in favour of them as he goes in favour of the interest of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35730	I thank the Honorable Prime Minister for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35731	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister Mr Plenkovic, so as long as you've repeated this, the aim of this law is to preserve jobs, businesses that are brands of the Republic of Croatia and all suppliers. The means to achieve this goal is the arrival of fresh or new capital, we all agree. And the key word is actually here money and we had some time ago here in the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a law called the Law on Pre-departure Deals. I voted for that law. I think it's even unanimously delivered. The similarity between the two laws is that the laws are passed when the money is no more, when the money comes out of the company. So obviously we're short of fresh capital to keep going further and further. And well you said the government this probably isn't responsible for what's happening in that part. However, when we talk about the interests of the Republic of Croatia, then I ask you to tell the Croatian public clearly and loudly whether the government's mission actually ends. If we're only talking about this oath, it can happen exactly that this law won't be enough to achieve this goal because if we say now we've drawn the line, but what about the money? Any accountant can tell you there's a trail of money. Because obviously around this company, there's been a lot more going on than let's call it that since legal transactions. There were transactions that actually brought suppliers into this position. Will the government and what will they do to discover, to find, to detect such transactions that were at the edge of the law? If that's not the DORH, then who's going to do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35732	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for the replica. The President-in-Office of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35733	I think you have well recognised that for the efficient restructuring of Agrokor, a key prerequisite is the willingness of a creditor to give fresh money. Without it, it is very difficult with the best knowledge, with the best reputation, with the best third record, with all the expertise and international references to anyone to initiate the process. That's why it's the point of this law if it comes down to it and I keep repeating the law is plan B. Plan A is a free agreement of all stakeholders who today have every freedom to agree and solve the problem. Plan B in the variant when the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner who receives the task of restructuring the company's business and the possibility that by virtue of the provisions of this law, whoever is willing to give the money has insurance in respect of the most senior demand institute. And that's the key, and that's exactly how I think we're opening the door of trust and willingness for those creditors who are willing to invest their money. When it comes to this second part of your replica that you refer to we can thus say clearing up the business, of course that the role of an extraordinary commissioner to gain a thorough insight into the company's business is one way. For some other possible illusions you're talking about, there are other competent state bodies, and that's not necessarily government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35734	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply to the replica. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35735	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I have clearly memorized several important messages from your opening speech. The first is the stability of the Croatian economy. The second is trust and the third is an attempt to get together. However, the fact is that on the side of the opposition today, obviously from what I have heard so far, we will not clearly achieve such goals. We don't trust the opposition in this scenario B that's being talked about because it's obvious that it's politically trying to scratch a little bit for certain points, not thinking about just being this law. And somehow it seems to me that they actually want to get away from all this, even their own responsibility to pass this law. I'm watching them this morning. One vote for an emergency procedure. The other votes against. The suggestion that the tax is not adjudicating, so we have an ex-legislator who was the director of the IRS who just received the indictment for arbitration in some small cases, the indictment and you have their suggestion that we do. You have their proposal to settle this through the bankruptcy law because it's faster and you're being accused of slowness. It means they don't have a bet. They probably didn't even read the law and try to escape. We're here and we'll be here all day. I think the importance of the moment, that the importance of this law is clearly shown or we will leave all the scenarios A that you spoke of without the possibility that the state itself is doing anything, so we have the law on bankruptcy and pre-fashion or we will pass the law as an obligation for us to show the will to take care of this problem too because this problem is really big and perhaps the biggest problem in Croatia's history when we talk about economic problems. And I think it's our responsibility, and the opposition is probably going to learn something during the day, and it's probably going to convince us and say that we're mistaken, but I don't think it's going to be that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35736	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for the replica. There's no answer. Thank you. The next call came from distinguished colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, here is the desire for the discussion to be more constructive and to avoid further sanaderescu rhetorical figures I have three specific questions for you and then please also concrete answers. My first question is the same as your colleague Jovanovic asked. If you wanted a dialogue with the opposition, why did you invite us to a meeting less than half an hour before the start of that meeting, not before? The second question is, therefore, by respecting both the theory and some cases and in practice the expertise of the rest of your government, i.e. your ministers, especially those involved in this situation and its resolution, don't you think that it is actually a huge problem that the Republic of Croatia does not have a finance minister at this time? So, you said on many occasions that Mr. Maric had completely excluded himself. Would it not be good for Croatia to have its finance minister in this situation? And my third question, so I read the law, you asked a few colleagues and colleagues if they did, I did. And my question to you is, therefore, it seems to me that in the law it is open to the possibility that at the moment when the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is mentioned several times in the text, takes over the actual governance of Agrokor, that the possibility of a supplier's lawsuit is opened and that in that case we would again come to the situation that the Republic of Croatia effectively solves, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to settle the debts that Agrokor has towards its suppliers. Here are my questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35738	I thank Mr. Glavasevic for the replica. Prime Minister Plenkovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35739	This third question I think I've already answered my colleague Pusic, which is why your answer is the same. The extraordinary Commissioner replaces the authorities of the company and not the property, nor is the state responsible for the company's obligations in the manner in which you imply it. That's number one. The government of the Republic of Croatia has a minister of finance and a successful finance minister who I must admit to fiscal consolidation, tax reform, budget-making made an exceptional contribution not only to the work of this government but I would say at all to the image and perception of the country and the direction in which we are leading our economic and financial policy. As for the dialogue, there were three of your colleagues at the meeting, we spoke, announced key outlines of the text. They said they'd study it, they studied it. Let's make some suggestions, this is a democratic procedure. There was a suggestion in one of the earlier replicas why we didn't immediately give it to the Parliament on Saturday. I am, however, a dear colleague of mine who respects both procedures and who is a lawyer, who thinks that one should give time to study such serious texts, legal texts. However, colleagues know in terms of government work everything coordination does this week does not go to the government on Thursday, it goes to the next one. We challenged that legislative... to bring as high quality documents to your benches as well as possible filtered with the input of the professional public and with the input of all resolutions and experts who consult on a wide variety of topics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a situation that requires extraordinary action. I'm not glad we have to do it in such a hurry. I wish we had a lot of time, but I think we do. If we don't have a consensus in the text, then we have a consensus on quick action. At least that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35740	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply to the replica. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35741	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, to the Prime Minister with the Ministers. In the context of this crisis, there is also an affair about the bonds, and there is no sign of it, because here is the first time we've encountered a balloon shooting, but not from soap opera, but from notes without cover. That the Committee on the Economy has not received an answer on how many of these bonds are, which are the amounts. I think it is irresponsible that we do not have that data and that we must tell our citizens how many are the same and who issued the bonds without cover especially knowing that our producers are not, especially small family economies being in such a situation. Thank you for praising HSS and our members they are valuable producers and have handed their products to companies in the Agrokor concert and their suppliers, so if you really want to protect them because the impression is from the field that this law is only in the function of protecting banks, the Todoric families and large ones, that you really want to help them in a way that their representatives of the Agricultural Chamber, the Croatian Fruit Community, the Association of Vineyards are in the advisory body that will implement this law. Secondly, if you don't let the country Agrokor handle through concessions, the lease comes into the possession of foreign companies. Third, let the workers hear that they too are part of the process because we heard the minister talking to the presidents of the administration. The workers say no one has informed them what will happen to their jobs. And most importantly, our small family economies and crafts cannot wait another three months and a year to collect their claims, they will be blocked by the IRS and other suppliers. If Agrokor and Agrokor were already able to issue bonds, enable them to issue bonds and settle their obligations to the Tax Administration and other companies of state bodies so as not to be blocked and thus show them real concern to keep those jobs on our OPGs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35742	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic. Mr. Plenkovic, the Honorable Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35743	Thank you very much. My colleague Vlaović, we talked and you know how much I appreciate HSS members in the final line here and in the elections for the European Parliament with us was Marijana Petir, we worked together daily for years, and I think that one big round of voters and members of HSS share the same values as HDZ and I am convinced that in the long run this will prove that we are still in a sort of kinship to say so, but without the pesorative character of that word. When it comes to bonds, therefore business entities do not account for you or me in any way. I know about this problem about how much you from the available information you're making. What's important is that the bonds at the moment of maturity have something to charge from. Whoever does it in advance knows they won't have anything to do with it then that's the problem, but that's the problem for some other institutions, not the government. The point of this law amongst other things is that we can also say clearing up such a business of our own... if you like. When it comes to employees, workers, everyone involved is precisely the meaning of this engagement a complete solution. I don't want anyone forgotten in this whole context that's extremely complex, it's extremely complex. There's no dimension that this situation, here I'm going to say this problem is a kind of crisis today, and it just seems to me that from the point of view of the state we can talk about that our position is such that we look at the interests of everyone, everyone else, and we've talked to a lot of them, they have their own point of view, legitimate, clear, expected. The state cares about the interest of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35744	I thank the Honorable Prime Minister for his reply to the replica. The next replica is the esteemed colleague of Bernarda Topolko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35745	... The bill is because when companies in Međimurje collapsed when Međimurje was on its knees, when the Trgocentar, GK Međimurje, MTČ Charaparija, Vico, Unity not to forget someone there were many, when workers stayed on the roads, when they did not get paid, had no jobs, had no right to apply to the office such laws were not passed. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Do you and your Government through this law guarantee that workers in Konzum will be paid, that they will keep their jobs in Belje, Ledo, that we are late with this law is both the fact and evidence of today's Zagreb Stock Exchange, where the value of Leda shares has fallen by 41.40%, Jamnica 36.71, Belje 23.46, Star 21.55, PIK Vinkovci 17.78, Press 10.34, will the workers in Agrokor receive salaries, keep their jobs and have a secure future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35746	I thank my esteemed colleague Topolko for the replica. Answer, Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35747	Thank you very much. So here is very clear, the answer is that this law needs to solve all these issues that you have listed and provide salaries to employees within the Agrokor system and to all employees in your local Konzum to all other legal entities that exist within it. That's the direction we're going. So in my opinion, the law creates legal preconditions, I repeat, so I'm going to draw, build a kind of wall, moratorium on claims that have currently reached, fresh liquidity, business insurance, payouts, payouts to suppliers, generate new incomes, the company stands on its feet and begins the restructuring process. This would in short be a description of the purpose of the task and of course the collection of tax obligations due, the meaning of such a law and what will be later and what should be implemented in practice. That's the key. And also stabilising financial markets, stabilising stock exchanges, so preventing additional declines or at all falling shares of a number of Agrokor's great companies that are within that system, so that's the goal, that's the fundamental objective. Of course, the government will take care of other companies, other companies that are of less character. But I think we're all aware of what the law says and his title of society is of systemic importance. They're all equally important, we're equally concerned in a way that we don't want anyone's failure, any loss of employment, any bankruptcy or liquidation. But such a system, which is living, which is daily pulsing in the Croatian economy, deserves a special legal regime to help manage the process of getting out of the crisis that we are facing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35748	I thank the Honorable Prime Minister for his reply to the replica. Next replica, distinguished colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35749	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister. Now they would be happy workers of Zadar’s Milky Way, Vinil Plastics, Polikem, Adrija tobacco factories, Boris Kidric, Croatia Zadar Line, Progress, Bagata, Skin Factorys of the GP Zadar, etc. to be happy if they didn't fall under the knife of HDZ privatisation in the '90s where 12,000 jobs were destroyed in Zadar. The people, the factories were destroyed, the people were driven out into the streets to get rid of elite apartments and garages in those places. And you see, 12,000 jobs if we were just part of these factories and production plants, then today, if they lived at this time, they would have had their own law because they would fall into this category of strategic importance, but they're not so lucky, and now you're going to convince us that this is a law that protects workers, that this is a law that will contribute to protecting the economic system and you, and we know that's not the case. Protecting the economic system in Croatia could only be done by preventing a monopoly on the market, protecting workers who worked for 2 and some thousand kunas, that the state reacted in the right way when the small suppliers had not paid for months, and today we are where we are. 27 years ago today we can't assume the causes of the problem, but the consequences are clear and someone is to blame. I believe that the proposal for this law is wrong and I reject the claim that you have been guided by this law by the constitutional principles of social progress, social well-being, social justice and the general principle of proportionality. Because if this law were to make constitutional these solutions, the principles you said would have to be just, and it's not fair because you're destroying legal security and guessing large and large. The workers and the little ones won't have anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35750	I thank my dear colleague Sabina the Voice. I would really ask distinguished colleagues and colleagues to refrain from campaigning for local elections since it has not started yet. The reply to the replica is the Honorable Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35751	Thank you very much, dear fellow Voicer. Here, in two minutes you can say a lot what is relevant is probably for Zadar's fifth Croatian city, the city in which there is I think it's sixth by number of entrepreneurs. Anyone who goes to Croatia often, and I have a case of circumstances, I must admit that in all of Dalmatia, no city has developed as much as Zadar in the period from 1990 to today. You don't need to be some big expert for that. It's enough to visit the city and get your first impression just like that. As far as Zadar is concerned, its development, its potential, traffic position, ports, airports, I mean Gaženica, airports, highways, entrepreneurial spirit, cultural, other contents that one of the largest Dalmatian cities is doing with its tourist offer, let the Zadars decide. As far as the law is concerned, if he is not socially fair in your court, he is not just, he does not treat everything equally as my reading, and I am convinced that the government's intention is indeed such that by law, by its provisions we provide an equal position for all stakeholders tied up, rested, business-related to the processes concerning the largest Croatian company. In this way with an extraordinary commissioner, with a religious council, with an advisory council, everyone will have instruments and forums through which they can express their views, their interests. They are meant to be represented from the greatest to the smallest. That's what the state is about and my government is in charge of. I believe that when these political connotations of our debate are quieted down a little bit and we enter the scale of the matter that you will see that it is the true intensity of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35752	I thank the esteemed Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35753	Dear Prime Minister, honourable members and members of the government, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. You said that the business that led to the threat of the Croatian economy must be stopped. I think it's a very important sentence. It's just a question of when did you notice that? I would like to point out the following, which is that the minister who is currently in isolation Mr. Maric Zdravko, in this particular case last year, had the opportunity to make public and transparent through the report on the achievements of the claims, and would then know much earlier the situation which has now escalated and which must now be addressed by these extraordinary measures. I think it is quite important to answer this, because if it is true that the document is hidden, it means that statistics on the achieved and outstanding claims have been removed since last year, allegedly at the request of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, this should be very important to the Croatian public. Today, there is a system firm, or important, if you can achieve that you have 5,000 people, but of course you have to raise seven and a half billion kunas of debt. I think it's a very wrong message in some way and it's just talking about what we're stimulating. We're encouraging it to go into debt like that, so there's a situation where you don't pay your dues instead of the other way around, which is that we're asking for bills to be paid on time, and then they wouldn't come into these situations. I'll say that the problem that has arisen cannot be solved obviously at the level that the same problem created. I think it's precisely the way to seek this trust of the high Croatian Parliament of this house that MPs show wisdom is very important. Because if we have already come up with extraordinary measures to be applied then at this point I have to ask Mr. Prime Minister, is the situation really what we can expect? And what we're offering is that we can only expand the existing law in that part that would provide the creditors, and later in the debate we'll be able to explain it much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35754	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Ostojić, for time's overrun, and we will compensate for that with a replica from Mr. Maras. The reply of the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35755	The only thing I'm sorry about is that Maras can't replicate to me anymore. That's a little awkward for me now. My colleague Ostojić, as far as the documents you mention are concerned, I have no knowledge of it, nor that it exists, nor that anyone has removed it. Here, you're the first guest of such a document for me. As far as your variant is concerned, so to fix, you're practically talking about the bankruptcy law, one small part, and then everything will be settled and settled, the legal framework is our vision of analysis, experience, practice that has shown that the speed of action and resolution of the restructuring process through such a law is not particularly rapid, let alone institutionally and legally appropriate for the circumstances in which we find ourselves when it comes to a systemically significant company. It's not the point of this law, like you said, that we encourage entrepreneurs to build large companies that have very many employees and quickly, they quickly reach 7 billion and 500 million kunas of debt. I don't think it's even right to say something like that because it remains on the air, of course it's not the point, the purpose of this law is to find cumulative criteria at the level of the Croatian economy that could adequately define which companies have systemic significance. As regards financial operations, of course, it is in our interest, and I am sure you too that the obligations are met in time, that what has been paid, that goods are delivered, that business is credible, that it is in accordance with the law. That's the key. However, we have an extraordinary circumstance, and the extraordinary solution we offer is in the best interest of the Croatian economy I repeat once again all the participants in the process, from the company itself and its workers, employees to the smallest supplier. That's the point, that's the point, I believe we're finally going to produce a document that will allow us to get tools to solve the situation we're in today. Without this, we can't, by my deep conviction, solve it properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35756	I thank the esteemed Prime Minister for the replica. This is what we used up the replicas to expose the Prime Minister. We move on to the replicas of the Vice-President of the Government of the Honorable Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. Martin Dalic. The first came to the line from a distinguished colleague, Maras. I've been kidding around for a while. You're welcome to spend your two minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35757	Thank you very much for your generosity to meet the two minutes you've given me. To return from Ukraine, Malta and these exotic and slightly less exotic journeys to economic reality. My question to Minister Dalic, and I will try to explain why I also performed a syntagma of cords between HDZ and Agrokor, i.e. the Government and Agrokor. I see that Minister Dalic also took over the role of finance minister because Mr Maric has nowhere to hide from the Croatian public, and Mrs Dalic may be able to give us an answer, given that she then took over the role in the HBOR president, at least the temporary Supervisory Board when granting loans to companies over 300 million kuna. How is it possible that after such large loans have been granted, the company has been blocked in a few months, and has that money been paid? This is what the Croatian public is interested in. So was Minister Dalic after she granted HBOR credit as Vice-President of the Supervisory Board is that payment made because these companies are now all blocked? And other information that is interesting, is Minister Dalic aware of the factoring market in the Republic of Croatia, and how much is the exposure of Agrokor to factoring companies and banks where it is traded and the bonds spoken of by Mr Vlaovic? And does he think that it may be related to the proposal of Minister Maric that this, that the application of this law is being extended for a while, that the HANF has no supervision, directly over the factoring of the societies and that now Prime Minister Plenkovic does not know the answer to that question, and that the law was applied when it was meant to be, and not that Mr Maric delayed it, the answer would now have the entire Croatian public and Mr Plenkovic. So are these things connected and does this HBOR money pay off? And the companies are now as we've seen in bankruptcy. Here are the questions that interest the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35758	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for the replica. Ms. Martina Dalic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35759	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras, a lot of hypothetical what if? I'm just a humble economist, so it's all about relationships and side-to-side what if it's a little hard to connect. As for the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, therefore, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of HBOR in the procedure and procedure prescribed in the Bank, analyses the credit requirements, then decides on these credit requirements by the Credit Committee. Then, for credit claims above 35 million kuna, credit claims up to 35 million kuna are decided by the Management Board, and those above 35 million kuna require consent from the Supervisory Board. In the 12th month of Zvezda, PIK Vrbovec and Jamnica, their credit proposals were agreed to the Supervisory Board. This agreement was given by the Supervisory Board because all HBOR’s professional services, as well as the HBOR Administration, had made a positive decision in this regard and then the HBOR Supervisory Board had no information at all, nor the Croatian public, nor the Bank, nor the investment public with any information that would indicate any significant and deep problems in the Zvezda, PIK Vrbovac or in Jamnica. Accordingly, the decision was taken in an appropriate procedure, and what you are interested in making that decision, Minister Maric, has been exempted as it does so in cases where the HBOR Supervisory Board discusses or decides whether it should be referred to the companies that are members of Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35760	I thank the minister for her reply to the replica. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Željko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35761	I thank the chairman. So I signed up for the replica I'm going to refer to both Prime Minister and Mrs. Dalic. So every honour of trying to move towards preserving the real sector, or part of the real sector that is most important to the Republic of Croatia, is agricultural production that is just directly affected by this present situation. But I would like to warn of one changed thesis in setting up this whole concept and proposing laws and seeking the consent of all parliamentary representatives around it. So, on our market, nothing as significant or soaring as the other markets where we've had such major breakdowns but this just happened out of nothing. So we didn't even have floods, we didn't have any disasters or changes on the financial market, and then it raises the question of what did I actually cause? And that's disrespect for the rule of law. So in order for someone to come into these duties enormously you have to have the first disrespect of the rule of law from now on, then you have to have the failure of an absolute legal system because you have deadlines where you have to settle your obligations and ultimately you get into a situation to protect either that capital or production. With this law, you will not protect production because you are trying to indirectly protect, not directly. If you really want to protect production then let's say this law, as the prime minister said, can apply to Podravka, probably can't it be 7.5 billion kuna owed to anyone, but its almost billion kuna claims or 50% of the total income at the annual level it has in Agrokor in Konzum or unsolved through the regressive claims that factoring houses will put towards it, directly endanger the company's business, it will not be subject to such a law or this solution, and it will come into exceptional problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35762	I thank my esteemed colleague Lackovic for his replica. Answer, dear Minister Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35763	... the law and what is the essence of the special procedure proposed by this law is to protect the stability of the Croatian economy in the event that those companies, which are their size, can be exposed to the overall stability of the economy with their other sectors of the Croatian economy. So this law in no way wants to say anything about problems and potential problems or the importance of any problems that other companies in Croatia can face is not there. Of course, but for such cases there is also an appropriate legal framework which is contained in the Law on bankruptcy and its heads on pre-demand settlement, which also regulates such practices. These actions are intended for purposes that can have an effect on the whole economy. And we therefore hold that it would not be productive to extend the provisions of this law to a significant number of business entities, but also likely in a more peaceful and quality debate in the time ahead will be possible on the basis of experiences to assess both the effectiveness and effectiveness and the other part of the legislation that regulates bankruptcy or pre-determination, according to this. We have these laws and regulations, and this is meant for a number of other countries to deal with situations where they really are systemic risks that threaten the entire economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35764	I thank you for your response to the honourable minister, Mrs. Dalic. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35765	Thank you, Vice President. Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Dalic. Article 37 means the legal consequences of the opening of an extraordinary administration procedure and calls for the application of the provisions of the bankruptcy law. If Article 12 defines the powers of the Extraordinary Commissioner, it shall have the authority of the Debt Officer's Administration, and it shall be pointed out in the introduction that there are no consequences for the budget or the implementation of this Act, if it comes to it, it shall not cost a single kuna of the taxpayer or of the budget. I am sorry that there is no Minister of Finance Maric here because he has a habit of saying that he personally promises that it will not happen, so I would like to see you personally here in front of the Croatian public if there is an implementation of this law that will cost no taxpayers. Furthermore, I heard from the Prime Minister that these ten companies mention Croatian forests. This doesn't make sense to me, the implementation of this law in the Croatian forest, as far as I know and I know a few things about it Croatian forests have a three-member administration, have a congregation. The president of the assembly is the minister in charge. How can there be bankruptcy in the first place? So, the government appoints a Commissioner of Extraordinary, does that mean that automation means hypothetically that the minister must be removed? The Prime Minister simply has to relieve him. He's got to change management. I don't want to, there's a few other state-owned companies where the same structure and control is so I don't get it. I don't think it's necessary to look for alibis... in some other companies, holding specifically, etc. What's known is who owns it. It is exclusively a private sector or majority private ownership. Therefore, please try to explain to me how you intend to apply this bill to Croatian forests hypothetically.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35766	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for his replica. Ms. Dalic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35767	Thank you very much. There's no need to speculate on hypothetical situations. However, in the legal order of the legal person, they have their rights, obligations, in accordance with the way they are organised, and based on the Company Act. Therefore, companies in the Republic of Croatia do not differ with regard to ownership or state-owned companies operating in a different legal regime. As I have spoken publicly more than once in person, I would like this law never to be applied to any Croatian company, not to the one owned or state-owned. The law, however, says it will apply to stock companies that have and fulfil the appropriate conditions if they come into appropriate financial problems. And I would therefore then theoretically and hypothetically ask you if, in the case of Croatian legislation, it is possible that shares in state-owned societies come into a situation of bankruptcy and pre-banking reasons purely theoretically? On the other hand, what this law adopts and what this law offers, offers to strengthen the legal, legislative and institutional framework that is aimed at preserving the stability of the overall economy and always in the debates I would ask you nicely to keep in mind today. This is not a law that is intended to be applied within the framework to express normal business problems. This is a law which is intended to be applied in the context of emergency situations whose exceptionalness actually stems from the economic importance of business entities facing bankruptcy and pre-banking reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35768	I thank Mrs. Secretary Mrs. Dalic. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35769	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Vice President, Prime Minister, Minister. Here's the worst-case scenario. When I look at who's running Agrokora now, it seems to me to be the kingdom of Alvarez III. Which is why we're listening here to an opposition that had, say, an opportunity to use secret security services so as not to reinvest Agrokor. So in 2014, Mercator bought Agrokor for 550 million euros 51.2%. Who allowed it? What were secret services, security services that protected them, supposed to protect the national interest that a man in the last 20 years had not ruled this system? What did the Croatian National Bank do, and now the vice governor says that all the time these risky loans that Agrokor was giving him were flashing the red light? To whom did they serve, whose interests? I'm glad the Prime Minister's here. How to stop, does it even make sense for the government if we don't pass a sharp and strong law, does it make sense for the government and this parliament to exist if it is under the supposed signs of "Kingdom Alvarez III"? Who is this man? Who gave it to him? Who made it possible for Todorovic and others to manage the entire economy? We need to find a solution. The first solution is because of those who put their lives in a free country, but also those like that. Before, a colleague mentioned Zadar and the companies, for example. 300 employees of the factory at the end of Dalmatia cannot achieve some 8 million kuna because the state does not wish to forgive some 15 million taxes. And today he charges on that factory which is a dump of 20 thousand kunas of Croatia water 20 kunas a month. So we're talking about the process here, and we've lost Croatia to the state and we must first of all not pre-warrant settlement as it has brought the SDPs or who has already voted, but here the only thing we can do is save the country from nationalization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35770	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for this replica. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35771	Dear Representative Bulj, I would disagree with you that the only thing we can do is nationalize because it is this law that shows that we can create an instrument that, if we show for it and ask for a need to manage a crisis like this that is currently taking place in Agrokor, which remains within the framework of the law, the Constitution and the fundamental values of our society. I think it's kind of clear to all of us that services like secret services and similar to them don't play their part in regular and normal business. However, what I would like to say and what we also have to take care of when we talk about this law is that we need to separate legal entities, we need to separate companies that make up Agrokor, their business, their employees, their market, their technology, their customers. Therefore, all that makes one normal and orderly business of some other issues likely to be discussed and spoken in the coming days and months if the need is shown or evidence is shown. But this law is business-related, it concerns the preservation of jobs, it concerns the preservation of all those who work with Agrokor companies, with companies that have both the market and customers and employees and who ultimately make up the Croatian economy together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35772	I thank the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Martini Dalic. With this answer, we have exhausted all the replicas, all the answers to the government's reasoned proposal for this law. I'm setting a recess until 3:00 p.m. when we continue the debate. I only note that it applied for a debate of 10 clubs and 24 individual debates, which makes it about eight and a half hours without any replicas or answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35773	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] So after the replicas we had at Prime Minister Plenkovic's opening, several committees held a debate on this law. The Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Justice. As long as someone wants to report on the committee's work as long as they don't, we move on to the first debate on behalf of the House of Representatives Life Wall, representative Ivan Willibor Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35774	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are aware of the crisis around us, we have finally come to the truth, the problems have come to light, Agrokor is insolvent, he cannot pay his obligations. What is the tragedy of this system of endless borrowing is that one day this similar problem is likely to happen to the Croatian state. I've already said before in the replica it's only three and a half, four times as far as expenditure, or debt greater than Agrokor. We could even say Agrokor is a small country. I also talked about the state of the country when it comes to measures and the selective application of the laws I have also witnessed and which I will now mention. The living wall primarily wants to protect what we share, our common resources, our common good and heritage, are primarily water, forests, agricultural areas. So here's when we talk about the waters of Jamnica is one huge firm, it's owned by Agrokor, a company with over a billion kuna per year income with about 200, 300 million per year net profits. When we talk about agricultural areas, we could talk, for example. Belje, the PICs holding control tens of thousands of hectares of the best agricultural areas. What we are fighting for here is that someone else, someone who isn't the fifth, who isn't the Croatian interests of the heart, comes tomorrow and sits on those agricultural surfaces, on our waters and on all other resources. Here is an example of what can happen if, without any strategy of plan or wisdom, we give our common, family silver to manage others. As is known Croatian Telekom was sold long ago, we didn't even know what was in this contract. They pulled out the creams, picked up the infrastructure. Here's a recent case, just before the dividends were paid, they pulled hundreds of millions of euros from the company so that Croatian shareholders wouldn't have to pay dividends. It went to Germany, I don't know, Montenegro, it was bought by Telekom. There, apparently, the German shareholders will pick up the cream, they will get our money until there is nothing for Croatian shareholders. It's one of a series of irresponsible decisions, poor governance, one of countless such firms. It's been said these days that Coca-Cola will come here, too, that he'll take the Guarantee that they're interested in it. And then those billions of kunas will be coming in, and profits don't have to give to our citizens. Why? They get it out wherever they need it. Are all the added values going to get us out of our country? Are we going to focus on a cheap workforce that doesn't have any means of production, we want to be foreigners in our own country? This law doesn't tell us anything. How do you stop it? This law doesn't say anything. Furthermore, as far as these policies are concerned, the first HDZ 2000 coalition government 2003. Sanader, Jadranka Kosor 2011. The SDP government until recently and now this government. All this time, colleagues and colleagues of Agrokor, namely Todorovics, had a good time, they had it on their hands. It was a state in the country. Governments have tolerated tax evasion, paying minimum wages, using bonuses, no one has said the bonuses are illegal, the National Bank, the Inspectorate, the courts. So what? Nothing. Is that a legal state? It's not a legal state. So some can do whatever they want, and for some, it's a disaster, some are pets, and some are orphans. In addition, there were hundreds of millions of kunas a year to encourage, one of which is the HBOR loan that Minister Maric had to know about. Did Minister Maric and five other ministers of this government sit on the Croatian National Bank Supervisory Board? And it must have been as we heard from Minister Dalic going through their hands. It was supposed to be a dedicated export credit, like I said before. Finally, part of the money probably came to the Star basketball club in the Republic of Serbia. We should also examine how this is possible, how our small suppliers, who hold only 10% of the debt, who are about 1,000 so they can't collect their claims? While members of the Todoric family do what they do, buy apartments, have yachts? And at the end of the day, it doesn't all work at all. Here's another example of how Agrokor got hit. Criminal application KRD 58/9 1326/11, 1032/11 and a number of others. I've listed these criminal charges as eight years old, it's about extracting 33 and a half million kuna from Agrokor through any stock sale. Until today's State's Attorney's Office has done nothing. There were more complaints and the Minister and the Attorney General to get something going. They say it's done, there's my 10-year-olds already at work. If this were a criminal report and dozens of other criminal charges that they were sanctioned in time, they wouldn't have this problem today. If Croatian laws were respected as they are, we wouldn't have this problem today. But no, what was it? Let go, let go. Just that Agrokor goes on, just that, just don't touch it. We delayed the problem, we refused to face the problem. He's grown now. Now we're the hostages of this whole situation. 36 billion kunas of debt. Easy for banks. As one song says, the rich always take care of themselves. What about small producers, medium-sized producers, small family economies, crafts that have only a few acres of land that worked with Agrokora? If they are not paid, if the money does not come to them, there will be an end to them, they will be blocked. Based on what I've heard all these years about Agrokor and doing business with Agrokora, some will be welcomed by action, that ultimate destiny. This law does not guarantee any rights, no guarantee that they will be charged. He doesn't guarantee them anything at all. This is a law made for the great, and small, if it is, if we are not sorry, neither first nor last. I gave a speech about the bons already before why they were tolerated. And today we can't get an answer. So far, policies have created this problem. We keep putting out fires instead of making sure there's no fire. As it is known, the Todorics acquired the property in a suspicious way, where roots are being dragged from conversion and privatisation. The governments protected them, the policies protected them, the states protected them, favored them in a number of ways. As Mr. Todorovic came to Jamnica, I told you that at a stop when the Zagreb County had even abolished, and then it went back to the map. It's obviously all right. Maybe that's legal right, but it's not morally right and our citizens are in pain when they see that someone can get millions out of a company without having what they did and doing for them. Small producers have been building their own properties for generations, and Todorovic has been buying for Kuna. Here's an example of the Whites that were bought for the Kuna. About tens of thousands of O.P.G.s a billion and a half. These people do not believe in the Lex Agrokor which we have here today at the Croatian Parliament, nor believe in the standstill arrangement because they are both excluded and in both are in a subordinate position. There's one question left open. Mr. Antonio Alvarez for whom will he play for? Will he do the job for the banks, will he do it for the midwives, for the little ones? We don't know that. It's supposed to be connected to the same company that recently acquired the Coopers. And as for the purchase of Cooper, who was here in the last session could have heard the report of the State Audit on the subject. My colleagues aren't clean. What's of interest, what's our interest, so to protect the family silver, to keep that production, that the shelves are full, that the crisis is resolved, not that someone takes over all this property and makes money on bankruptcy. In the Agrokor case, too, there is evidence of all the error and meaninglessness of the two-year monetary fiscal and credit policy. Without some real bank that works for our interests, which is in the extreme and state-owned and which is well managed by this country's economy will not come far. We can also have great projects, but if no one will fund them, they won't get far. And if they're going to fund them for the huge interest here we're talking about the Agrokor about 10% interest. That's inconceivable. It's just unimaginable. No firm can handle that kind of financial pressure. In the end, the Croatian state will not be able to support it either. Without monetary tools, exchange rate management, and interest rates, there is also no good perspective for manufacturers. Unfortunately, we've turned the country into a trade country, and I'm afraid this crisis doesn't suppress this production that remains, and especially small and medium-sized producers. We are also threatened by recession, a fall in budget based on a rise of 3.3%. It is questionable whether there will be a rebalancing, whether after this crisis the budget will be able to patch up or whether we will have to rebalance the state to manage to finance all its needs. Is that all we needed? I want to punish institutions that didn't act. I've given you a few examples. I've given you exactly the number of criminal charges. I've listed them several times before for INA, for Gavrilovic, whatever you want. It just didn't work out. As long as we don't form institutions, it doesn't matter what laws we make. Unfortunately, we're working on the principle of quick dialing of phone calls. Hey, buddy, give me that thing, all right? Don't give me that application, put it in the drawer, etc. Some journalists kissed cows among the horns, licked up Agrokor, and now they're writing the opposite. I hope that the state's attorneys will also encourage this to finally start doing the work they're getting paid for, to turn the board around and process all these whistles, the unionists and those that Agrokor has remained in debt long before this crisis. As far as the legal framework of this law of 50 articles is concerned, the Commissioner has too many powers, almost dictatorial. This law has been written for a small number of major creditors with political influence, undoubtedly banks have political influence we have seen before, and for a large number of tens of thousands of OPGs without a good network of political influence this could be the end. The Sanhedrin Council is elected in an untransparent manner with very little authority. Furthermore, the state has a crucial impact on the process through the Advisory Body, literally the economy minister appoints all members, and the court is doing so in order. What may be the worst, the whole concert goes to a biting basket instead of every firm having its own manager. In conclusion, the Living Wall will not support this law because it does not protect our resources, because it does not protect small manufacturers of the family, the OPG crafts, because it does not seek responsibility for war profit and lawlessness that some of them have stated in their address even before working in the Croatian Assembly. Since this law I believe will not bring any good, I invite you all, as in our replica, to join forces in the Parliament of the Government, we are all going together to make a solution that will lead Croatia into some future that makes sense. This endless loaning and repaying loans that can't be returned doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35775	Thank you. We have six replicas on your exhibit. The first replica of MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35776	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My friend Son, everything you've said I'm signing. The fact is that Todorovic is a product of policies that have been parading through this House for the past 20 years, the High House, is the fact that they have made an occupation. I agree the institutions weren't doing their job. Secret Service, what were security services doing? They allowed them to capture the economic system until they controlled whether they were in charge, until they controlled when Mercator bought 500m euros in 2014, that it was essentially a death blow to the Croatian economy because they gave ownership to the tycoon Todorov, which is now up in his court. And I agree that the tribal would be right after what he did for the Croatian state, and all the budgets, all the governments were giving him out of the budget huge money, so that poor peasant in Slavonia that was to go to the OPGs didn't come, now the question again is, what's going to happen to that peasant. But it's not your fault for this situation, and I don't blame myself for having nothing to be ashamed of, but the fact that we're trimming some kind of solution, and I agree with your final conclusion, having a solution and making some kind of proposal, an amendment to this thing that will encourage us to preserve strategic national vital interests from agriculture, the water of everything you've listed. They robbed everyone for Judas's paws. No more EU stars, creating a kingdom through Todorovic, Alvarez III. I completely agree with you, and it certainly isn't my colleagues from the Most, and neither are you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35777	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35778	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bulj this is definitely a security issue, why no evaluations were made, it's definitely national security, it's a huge number of workers, it's huge money. However, the question arises why institutions have not done their job, it is our old problem. I believe you will not personally support this law. We should get back to the beginning if this is how we just generate non-payments and generate injustice. There's a chance you have in power so reform more of that DORH. I said here when the government asked for support from this place, you have institutions that your audit says are wrong and that they are bad at work, institutions that citizens tell us are bad, that they are bad at work, that the world tells us they are no good, that they are not doing bad work. The then DUDI, now it's the ministry, so DORH, HNB, HRT, can go further to the judiciary, etc. How much credit HBOR has given on the political line, that should be addressed. And if this government reformes at least two of that institution, it will do a lot, and if it continues to generate debts and injustice it will do nothing and bear political responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35779	Thank you. Next replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35780	Dear colleague Sincic. Our prime minister says Agrokor is a systemic problem and a system solution is sought. Why the system solution has not been found for 50 thousand OPGs that have failed in the last five years, why does the Government not consider the issue of these OPGs a systemic problem, why does the Government not consider the problem 340 thousand citizens to be a systemic problem and to amend the executive law that is most inhuman in Europe, why if the Government cares about system solutions, which is why it does not solve the problem of RBA cooperatives that still seem to affect our citizens today. However, it is obvious that when it comes to hundreds of thousands of citizens, tens of thousands of OPGs about thousands of families whose RBAs are hanging around their necks, it is not a systemic problem. And when Agrokor steals, as it did, and everything else before it and as it will continue to crucify after it, then it is for God's sake that they seek system solutions. So let's just remember the Magma of Fijolic she fell, Kerum collapsed, the singer collapsed, now the consummation. This list has no end to a simple economic model in which the economic policy that our country is running is wrong, instead of changing it, instead of looking for a real system solution that would save the whole country, we are doing a quasi system solution here that is unfair because the frozen debts of Agrokor will be frozen for up to 15 months, and the obligations of Agrokor supplier will not be frozen with it. So the Agrokor suppliers won't be able to charge up to 15 months, and at the same time everyone else who asks for money will do them and send them into a blockade. Here, let me tell you, it's right there. ended up in a blockade, so the Zveceva blockade is just a finish in this whole lardy. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35781	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35782	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pernar, the word system firm or adjective is something I have not heard before from our Prime Minister Plenkovic and I am glad that we have started to think at that level. For me there are absolutely 300 and a few thousand, 330 thousand blocked system problems, that's how much, 12% of the workforce, almost every tenth of the country's population in this problem, it's a very popular problem in the sense that it covers the wide layers of our citizens. However, this government unfortunately does not play for small, disorganised and poor, it plays for large capital, for banks, for large creditors, and for who knows who who has taken an eye on who knows which company, forest or source of water in the Republic of Croatia. That's what bothers me the most and it hurts the most. I call upon the citizens that wherever possible they are organised and that they are beginning to resist such bad policies, otherwise we will end up disappearing. We're hostages now of Agrokor, and all this time of bad policy continuity where one policy replaced another, but the boss survived everything and the rest. And if Mr. Maric came after the government's mission, he'll survive this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35783	Thank you. Next replica Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35784	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sincic. So when we talk about this problem, we necessarily need to talk about justice because society without justice cannot survive in the long run or can be called civilised society at all. At this point the big problem is the workers of the viaduct, they don't get paid, sometimes a very neat company is falling apart. The Borov workers, a giant who once had 23 thousand employees, today there are only 700, eating them in Caritas, if the Vukovar Caritas didn't give them food, they'd be hungry. Many companies have failed, let us remember only Zdravko Spevec, mentioned today for a far smaller situation, was taken away from him by the entire company, taken into bankruptcy. Let us remember the once most powerful Croatian bank Glamina bank where its owner Marko Marcinko ended up in prison and was taken from him all his property. Why doesn't this government help the O.P.G., thousands of blocked O.P.G.s. Here the other day, a milkman in the area of Bjelovar was killed because he couldn't repay the loan he took from the government of the Republic of Croatia's Operational Programme. Can anyone explain to me why this milkman's life is worth less than the life of a tycoon? What kind of society is this if it doesn't value its citizens equally, if the law isn't the same for everyone? Do we have the right to pass laws that prefer one person who pleases one company no matter what its name is? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35785	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35786	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, here is the question of equality and inequality, or equality before the law, and that principle was one of the fundamental issues of my debate. As in a country from a distant past or from a medieval state, we in Croatia are unfortunately not equal in front of the laws, we see always and always from the beginning that one rule applies to the great powerful, networked, politically connected, and some other rules apply to the weak, small, disorganised and poor. Let's just think of the example of former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, where did his children get so much property? The math of elementary school, it's very easy to trace. Why are our property cards and other officials' property cards so poor, why isn't the emphasis on assets abroad, that's what I'm wondering. Look around Europe, around the world, America as much as we criticize it for what it is, I confess to it America is a legal state. There's no joke there. Bigger crimes tell me some Americans don't pay taxes than kill a man there. And where is our legal state? What must happen in Croatia in order for the laws to be applied unselectively, equally for all? There I am fighting for the rule of law, and those who say Croatia is a legal state at this time should at least do something about all these criminal charges that are still standing and which generate injustice, so let them try to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35787	Thank you. Next replica, representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35788	You said your colleague Sincic was easily a large bank, should be protected by the OPGs, family farms and small ones. And I agree with you. It is precisely because of the small and large ones that it is certainly good that the government has responded and that the adoption of this law is, in any case, a better solution than a classic predicate settlement or not, God of bankruptcy. Already, the very fact that a pre-departure settlement would be conducted in 10 places in front of 10 courts and for a 10-year-old daughter, Agrokora, tells us that one man, an extraordinary commissioner, will be much more efficient, more expedient in making decisions. Just imagine how long the judiciary could drag and drag individual processes because of the complexity of the situation and we know that it is related societies, both ownership and guarantees. On the other hand, it is important that this law best wants to protect itself both small and large equally. In the event of bankruptcy or pre-demand settlement, there would certainly be an inability to pay out the creditors and write down part of the debt which would result in the collapse of suppliers that are so far, who are now in the blockade supplying goods. And the little OPGs you were talking about, I don't even want to think about what would happen to them because there's no one to protect them. Only in my county of Varazdinska Debt Agrokor according to the business entities of Koka, Vindi, Vindon, Derma, Chroma, Kalnik,... but from 400 million kuna, which in some companies amounts to 15 to 20% of gross revenues per year which could virtually endanger such companies. That is why this law is required as an alternative classically in bankruptcy or pre-determined settlement. And I'm asking you what's an alternative to small O.P.G.s, if not to protect the government and the state and whether it's a better option of bankruptcy or prerogation. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35789	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35790	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I told my colleague in my debate that we don't know who Mr. Alvarez is going to play for. We also don't know who this government commissioner, who he's going to protect when he gets there to the place of administration and who he won't. This law doesn't say that, he's very general. He gets dictatorial powers when he pays, to whom he will pay, which he will not, he is the master of life and death of Croatia, he will say we will save Jamnica it's good for us, these 50,000 let him fail, this is good for us, this is what we'll take, this is what we'll do, this is what we'll do. Therefore, the law is very general and will depend most on the kind of person with which interests it will be placed. There is no guarantee either with Alvarez, nor with the government commissioner that he will protect water, forest, field, agricultural areas, etc., that he will protect small suppliers or medium. There's no guarantee that he or the bank will protect, there's no limit to anything. That's the main problem with this law, which is so general. And why am I questioning the government's work? Because so far it has been shown not only by the Government but also by other institutions and by the HBOR, where ministers and from the DORH are sitting, which I hate to mention because there is a government of mistrust in institutions, non-payment of taxes, minimum wages, thin concessions, incentives abnormal, credit-settling, would be gone by tomorrow. It all created mistrust in the state. And as the small producers tell you, they are both against Lex Agrokor and against stand still, they have no confidence in the state, or in that commissioner that he will solve problems at their benefit and to the benefit of all citizens and their fear is, I know that he is justified. And yes, 5,000 kuna is very much for small O.P.G.s. The alternative is that institutions start doing their job and start processing criminal charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35791	Thank you very much. The next replica is the representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35792	Dear Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, you said that you were practically the Government with this, or Sincic, you said that with this proposal, the government practically played for the big, that it played for the banks. But we're seeing from the banks apparently opposing this bill and you're saying that we don't know who's going to do this better, Alvarez or that government commissioner, but we know who posted Alvarez. So I think we still need to trust the Croatian government a little more, or our institutions than foreign banks. So you're here in one logical paradox. And as for everything else, you said that within this legislative proposal we should talk about how we're going to take Mr. Todorovic's property, it's an issue for institutions. MOST is the only political option, while Todorovic is still strong, at least in public, standing on his feet after the previous parliamentary elections went to the screening of the film boss, the whole summit of the Most after negotiations with HDZ, which I remind you while some of the SDP colleagues said we shouldn't talk too much about Agrokor because we can cause some problems. We showed what we think about, how Agrokor was created, how everything that happened happened happened, and we're about to investigate it. When tax reform was here, I was the only representative who ever noticed and then supported me by my colleague, Lalovec, when the property was disproportionately determined, so I had to cut the rate to 36, I suggested that it increase to 52% as adopted, that's a 50% increase. And that's what we're going to insist on, but that's a question for other legal proposals and a question for institutions from DORH to others. And thanks, of course, to all the MPs sitting here and, of course, part of the MPs sitting on this side, neither you nor I are responsible for it, and we have the situation that we have. But that's a question for other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35793	I'm asking you nicely, there's a lot of applications, clubs we haven't practically started yet, just one so please really stick to your two minutes of replicas. Answer to the replica of my colleague Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35794	Thank you, Vice President. As I said to my colleague, there is no guarantee that the government's commissioner, that he will help anyone, or the big, small, medium-sized. So if I'm in a logical paradox, are there tens of thousands of small producers who have expressed no confidence in both solutions, and for a reason so much can be read out of the law that they are here in the most unfavourable position. Why was there no reaction from the ministry and the MOST when the rating was reduced last year when Agrokor failed to refinance, and as far as the confidence in the institutions of this criminal application, which I have stated why they are not being resolved, the issue has also been addressed to your Minister Šprlja. He hasn't responded much better than other ministers have answered in eight years how long this process has been going on. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35795	And another replica, representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35796	Thank you very much. My fellow Son, I have listened carefully to your entire speech. 13 minutes was a speech about some condition in Agrokor's group that's been in the past 25 years. It seemed to me like you were collecting some kind of spilled milk and you were done with it. There were some stories, I heard this, I heard that, because of such stories we've already saved your colleagues here in the Parliament several times, so I haven't experienced anything too serious in terms of the proposal, your proposals on the very text of the law. You said something in two minutes, you said the Commissioner was a dictator and no one was protected by this law. And of course, at that point in time, a man will probably come up with something as a suggestion. We in the Living Wall think that this dictator, the Commissioner, can be restricted through these and those provisions of the law to be no dictator. Or he's not protecting anyone. We in the Living Wall will propose some provisions that would protect small suppliers or some kind of farmers. No, you're against and you say the whole time the state has no tools. And now that he wants to have it through this law that he can act, you say we're against this law, let's keep it out of our tools just the bankruptcy law, the pre-fashion settlement law, and that's our opinion. I think it's a little unserious. Well, if you'd at least suggested I don't know Alvarez the third isn't right, we have Pernar the second. He could get into that administration, he knows something because he wrote books on economics, he knows how to calculate I don't know VAT on a hundred kunas, and he can help something. But nothing, nothing. Now I am giving you a chance, you have two minutes to say what the Living Wall resents this law and what its solutions are, whether it will come during the day, and by evening there is plenty of time for the Living Wall to propose at least 5 amendments or three amendments or one to limit the provisions of this law and help the state and all of us to do something. Because being against the law doesn't mean protecting those suppliers and farmers you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35797	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35798	Comrade Boric, if you were watching my break the other day you could see that I had announced there an amendment that would cover, so an examination of the origins of the assets of those to which it would apply. However, when the prime minister called me half an hour before I saw the law, our legal team concluded that there was simply nothing to amend to say that the law could not be fixed, that this law would not guarantee that the interests I had previously cited would be protected. As far as the legal tools this country has are concerned, it has a bankruptcy law. Have you ever heard of it? Did you hear about the bankruptcy bill? Have you ever heard of the Pre-Fashion Bill and other laws as they are? Look at that. The other day, Judge Cookies told you. The Slovenian law has 500 articles in the pre-fashion settlement and there have been 12 pre-fashion deals. Ours had significantly less and there were as many as 5,000 pre-war deals. Have you listened to the State Audit report on these settlements how many people have been damaged? Ask your Minister Maric, the older Maric, who spoke here against the law that stated how much robbery was made during that time today I don't see him here. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35799	Thank you. We move to debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, MP Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35800	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs welcome either students or students, students who watch us. Unfortunately, at this point in Croatia, perhaps the biggest crisis of independence is taking place. Every day lost for Croatia means a hundred jobs lost. We need to be aware of that. You have proposed and brought Lex Agrokor because that law is called with a completely uncertain effect for Croatian economic stability, for the Croatian economy, for workers, for suppliers, even for banks with a completely uncertain outcome. You are participating in an experiment that has not been seen in Croatia so far. You are looking here for five to twelve Prime Minister Plenkovic, correct the law with amendments. You invited the leaders of opposition parties fifteen to one on Friday to tell them the law goes into procedure at eleven. You haven't consulted anyone in this procedure, gentlemen of the government. You don't need anyone in this process. You want us to trust you. So how do we trust you? You knew for three months that the credit rating of Agrokora had fallen. What did you do for three months at the Ministry of Finance? For a year, the same minister was led by the Ministry of Finance. You had all the instruments to detect the situation in the Croatian economy. What were you doing? Nothing. How can we trust you? Maric one, Maric two, Dalic, Barisic. Well, there's hardly a minister in this government who's not under any kind of an affair. You're talking today because you couldn't speak to Mrs. Dalic in the INA case, and Mr. Maric spoke about the INA case, so he can't talk today. So isn't this actually tragic for you? Have you spoken to representatives of suppliers, vegetables, fruitcakes, hero producers, pig producers who have not charged a billion and a half of their claims? You're not. No one talked to them in that procedure. Has anyone spoken to the workers of Agrokor and related companies? It's not that either, because there's a dozen companies in the blockade today. 11,000 workers work in blocked companies, 3,000 in the press, 2,000 in PIK Vrbovec, thousands and a half in Belje, over a thousand in Jamnica and Ledo can't get paid because the accounts of the companies are blocked. Did you know that a cashier in Konzum who works for a small salary, a minimum salary in Croatia that you didn't even support here in the law of adopting a minimum wage law so that her salary is 300 kuna higher, can't buy a Easter ham for her family because she doesn't have a salary, and the question is whether there are any bons. In the past few months and days, we have seen facts about the parallel system of financing in Croatia come out, so Croatian citizens have a right to know about it. What did the institutions do to protect those who had already paid for it tomorrow 25 years ago, maybe pay the price of a new conversion and privatisation? We offered you and we told you, consult us, three months ago we said we were going to talk together about what we must do well for our country, but you don't need anyone. And not only that, but in this process you have led to the end and the last edge of the weakest and most unprotected, and these workers, these are small farmers in the OPG, these are small suppliers who cannot in any way be certain from this law that their family will be able to continue to work next month or that they will have to feed their family, not a single guarantee in this bill they do not have. And we gave you the option, the bankruptcy law of amendments that go to protect small and vulnerable, but also on the other hand to ensure liquidity so that workers in companies get paid. But no, you are going into an experiment that is very, very uncertain for the Croatian future. It is indicative of me today that there is no President of the Parliament here today, I don't know what kind of motive Mr. President of the Parliament has, but obviously what's happening to us in the neighborhood. In the last three months, you have been trying to convince us that in Croatia there is a more important INA commission that has not made a single decision, from protecting Croatian national interests. You're trying to convince us that it's important to have an education reform committee that hasn't made a single decision in the last year. It stopped the reform rather than continuing curative reform in schools, educational reform. Yeah, well, that's funny to you, Mr. Boric. Well, of course you think it's funny. The workers of 76,000 people work in Croatia for minimum wage and you don't have to go far, now I'm going to surprise you, go down to the Assembly lobby, people work for 2,400 kuna, 15 kuna is a big deal for them, here in the Parliament, today when the President of the Parliament has no minimum wage. 76 thousand you did not support it, that these are workers who work for 2,400 kunas they are irrelevant to you and even in this bill. I also see the media today that they're relativating this debate, I guess they want to charge themselves in some kind of next procedure, but it won't be good if the media keep quiet about the effects and consequences of what's going on behind the hill. This is an opportunity for the Croatian economy to be restructured, but not in a way that is going into an experiment with uncertain outcome, but for companies that have so far done business with national protectionism, with political power, with individuals at the top of the government, to now turn to competitiveness and make the effort that needs to be made to keep the market in Croatia healthy. And that won't happen unless the causes and consequences of this condition are known. Well, with the Commissioner's proposal, at least we expected you to allow him six months back for the acquisitions, for the write-off, for the accounting that's been going on in the last six months, maybe in that company, but you didn't see it coming in the bill either. We've seen something else that actually amazes us these days, heroes of liberal capitalism, heroes of the new age, managers begging for state interventionism in companies that are uncompetitive. I understand them, it's hard to explain to the workers that Mercedes is made fictitiously, and it's devastating that they still believe they can keep Mercedes, and let the workers be cared for by the state. Once Croatian citizens paid for conversion and privatisation, you now suggest they pay for it again. Do not put the debt of Agrokora on the back of Croatian citizens. You're looking for an alibi to call opposition 5 to 12. What did Plenkovic say? Your leadership, your responsibility. Do you have a lead? And you have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35801	Thank you. We have 16 replicas on your exhibit. So we start with the first. Representative Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35802	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague. This morning, I asked the Prime Minister one simple question, in my opinion, whether the workers of Agrokor, in particular the workers of Belje because they were very concerned about their situation this morning and asked what this law meant to them, whether it was someone from the government, when it wasn't already someone from Agrokor or someone from the banks who tried to explain what this law would mean to them. Do you know what answer we got? We got an answer from the Prime Minister that they were talking to the White Authority. The administration. The administration. So who created this problem? The administration, the management of the Whites, the administration of Agrokora. They care about the management of Belgium and the workers, who are already working today because they are no longer enough because Agrokor can't hire additional workers as he has done over the past few years, work 12 hours, for workers this government doesn't care. My dear colleague, you said yourself that it wasn't talking to the workers, that it wasn't talking to small farmers, that it wasn't almost talking to anyone when this law was being prepared, but you're wrong. Someone was talking to him after all. It was talking to banks and talking to big suppliers who are today advocating state interventionism and by yesterday, as called politicians, they were telling us that we should lead this country. They've been talked to, and that's exactly the core of the problem. And that's exactly why this law is the way it is. That's why trade unions have to write us that the problem of this law that workers don't protect, which workers won't be able to collect their wages, workers won't be able to collect their injuries at work, workers won't be able to collect anything. For banks all but for workers who cut them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35803	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35804	White 25 thousand acres, East Slavonia works, like little ants to feed their families. Nothing to anyone. A billion and a half kuna not charged with claims. The cardiovascular system of Croatia. If they leave, we'll have nothing to do with all the effort we've fought in peaceful reintegration. People, do you realize how big this problem is? And then comes the solution as an experiment. Either you're messing with the end or you're not messing with it, but you can't get half involved, have partial solutions, talk to the part, and for the part that's the most vulnerable in Croatia turn your head. And perhaps the taste is the answer to your question from a colleague of the coat of arms. They might care about management and the workers don't care.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35805	Thank you. Next replica, Agent Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35806	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am trying to do what has been happening now for the last two months to copy that God does not let this happen or always don't give God away, but that it has been going back two years, so that it will then react in the Croatian government and in the Croatian Parliament. In no way, it would not react, it would be left to the verse because I cannot in 27 years of this state and I have a few years to remember a single circular decision of the SDP and when he was in power or when he was invited to make some kind of circular decision for the Republic of Croatia. It's easy to wash your hands, yell if I'm in power to release the verse and lead to go and if I'm not in power, I'm against it. You know why I believe in this law? Because against this bill are the laws of the bank, the owner and the SDP. It is a comfort to me that this law will ultimately be very good and that, I sincerely hope it will help these companies that do not give God as Agrokor now gets into trouble. So I will support this law from the heart and advise you to give a little coordination, give you a little bit that this Croatian people remembers you for something, by some crucial decisions, or at least by participating in some crucial decisions with a position in this case so that in 2, 3 or 5 years it is said and we raised our hand for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35807	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35808	Do you know how much debt is owed in Croatian health care? Over 7 billion kuna. He's grown 2.5 times over the last year, 2.5 times. Did you know that drug dealers are canceling? So do you know that we can have a stampede in the health system, a chain of indifference that opened up. Are you aware of that? In a year. Same minister of finance. The same finance minister that didn't know what it was about. How can I tell you? Well, I mean, that's totally amazing. Yes, there were problems and there would be problems and no one said it would be easy and there would be no need to polish the problem. But what's important is to say, the people of my year are the same minister of finance in position. So did we solve the shipbuilding when no one expected it? We've solved the shipbuilding. And what are you offering now? An experiment in which you say, they disagree. So how do you know they don't agree? Well, the banks agree with that. In this process, the only people who are not consulted are the workers, the vegetables, the orchards, the hero producers, the pigs, the smallest ones, the smallest ones, the ones in this process are not consulted. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35809	Thank you. Next replica representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35810	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Bernardić, I agree with you when you say that it is tragic that at the moment we are discussing the biggest crisis in Croatian history, economically definitely the largest, I would dare say the biggest of the Homeland War the solution that is offered is half the solution, the hasty solution, something that breaks over my knee, which is almost forced. What bothers me and not just me is that the state is given the opportunity to interfere in private-legal relations as we have heard here many times, debtors and creditors and realizes a crucial influence, political influence and it is not good when we talk about the economy. The economy should be protected differently by colleagues and colleagues from HDZ and MOST who have been acting responsible for Croatia for two years because you act as a government, which is to disable monopolies, that is to ensure the collection or respect of currencies or what is written in the account. To be involved in safeguarding the liquidity of the entire system, etc. etc. But the state takes its own right away. As soon as the bill is issued, VAT is charged, and when it will be charged to whoever delivered the service or delivered it to the country practically does not care. But what concerns me most is my colleague Bernardic, and you just mentioned what's going to happen to Slavonia? White? Vupik? PICK Vinkovci? Zeduce? That's over 3,000 people, 3,000 jobs for Slavonia. Do you know what it means for Slavonia, who is already devastated like this? That means another 3,000 tickets to Dublin, Germany. This means another 3,000 families who will think about the future outside Croatia. But what about the little suppliers nobody mentions? Small producers in Croatia who depended on Agrokor, who do not have their own raw materials to sell to others. This law doesn't solve it. He's not giving any answers to this. It's tragic colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35811	Thank you. The answer to the replica? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Next agent, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35812	Thank you very much. It is natural for my colleague Bernardić of all of us to have feelings for producers, farmers, small OPGs, but the fact is, I don't understand what you were going to say if we save VUPIK, Belje and other suppliers, if we try to save it, we keep the team jobs and everyone who works for them. But the fact is, you're talking about a billion and a half kuna to those people, huge money. Do you know the fact that your Minister Jakovina funds from the EU funds that were supposed to go to our OPGs went to Drito Todorovic in his pocket. That's why it moved out of Slavonia 50,000 people and it's really a big problem that you were saying, it's nice to hear you. You just missed the whole balloon. For what? Here we must jointly protect against everything that has been done in the last 20 years, and SDP has been in power for eight years. Is it possible to buy and you can take four seats in the Parliament? Is it possible that Agrokor buys Mercator in 2014 and so is the debt and today we are in this situation. What was the government doing then, the CNB, Secret Service Security? They'll be watching whoever's talking about your party president or what I told him in Sinj when he came or someone else. So here is everyone's responsibility to preserve our national interests. 60,000 dairy producers were, today we have 4600 and that's in the last 5, 6 years and you've been in power. Therefore, here we need to find a solution to reject the Kingdom of Alvarez, and that Slavonia remains Croatia's main production branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35813	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35814	Dear fellow Bully, most certainly regulatory bodies, a large number of them have failed on this case. But you seem to be trying to prove yourself visible and say that we've been MOST, and we've been together for the last year and a half with HDZ both in the last government and in this government and you're trying to commit your destiny, the fate of the Most for the fate of the HDZ on this case. That's okay. That's legitimate. But I'm trying to say don't stick your head in the sand in front of those people who didn't get that little charity in Slavonia and all over Croatia for which they work in the heat. Don't stick your head in the sand! Don't participate in an experiment that can be tragic and devastating for the Croatian economy, that's what I'm trying to tell you. You decided to participate. Okay. It's important to participate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35815	Thank you. Next replica representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35816	Dear fellow Bernardic, you had a very inspired discussion with the goal of really fascinating the public about what was going on. However, I think that this government, these ministers who worked nights to find a solution, were not so dependent on making those solutions. Indeed, they were concerned that this company was primarily a manufacturing company, that this company is 95% owned by a private person which is not negligible and that this particular government has made those who should have found this solution much sooner to think about all this, about production, about producers, about small suppliers, about large suppliers because it doesn't matter when the exposure of a single supplier is 12, 13, 20%, 30%, for example, one of the suppliers in total claims. So it certainly wasn't easy and easy for them to think about how to force these very people who were well paid to realize that finding a solution depended primarily on them, and with this government did it to rush them because they had to do it yesterday. So you can't say that in this way this government is bringing anything harmful but really trying to find the best solution without turning into a classic state interventionist to make this company which has a responsibility to do so. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35817	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35818	I'll agree with you in this section that you said you were supposed to do yesterday. Yeah, they were supposed to do that yesterday, they were late, and that's the main and the main problem. When we warned, we provided the hand of the dialogue, there was no dialogue but now five to twelve are trying to put everything in the same basket and give an alibi for something that no one knows the consequences for the Croatian economy. You mentioned 14% of the exposure of some companies, so some of the biggest Croatian suppliers are exposed to Agror and up to 70%. So do you know what that means? With 500 people this month who suffer for wages before Easter, the greatest Christian holiday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35819	Thank you very much. Next replica representative Mato Frankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35820	Dear colleague Bernardic, actually here today we've only heard a hint, there's no solution. You didn't offer any of your suggestions. What are you offering? You are a colleague of Bernardić's leader of the opposition, we are, as counterpart Hajdukovic said, at these times in one of the biggest problems in Croatia since the Homeland War. You, as leader of the opposition, also bear responsibility. Today the law that is being offered is exactly the law that will allow the state to start solving the problem that has happened and therefore please offer a solution. What is the solution of the opposition leader? One more thing you said that rang me that way, and that was that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia had already paid for the conversion and privatisation once. And you forgot they paid her twice, and the second time he was through the pre-fashion settlement process.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35821	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35822	Thank you for believing in me. At first, we offered you solutions and we told you so. After you had already sent the law to the procedure, so you sent the law to the procedure on Friday at three o'clock, not consulting anyone or calling the presidents of the parties from fifteen to one and fifteen. Yes, we said, change the bankruptcy law, secure liquidity, i.e. Superior funding and prioritize so that small suppliers, farmers come first for the purpose. Yeah, we also said worker protection during the procedure, here's an article, two articles are there. We said the possibility of canceling the lease contract, here's an article, here's because one of the big problems is the conclusion of the unrealistic... real estate arrangement. For this reason, we have proposed the adoption of a new article that would have just disabled the orientations in relation to work. Here's an article, an obligation to maintain small domestic producers and pay up to a million kuna, so you slept through it. Here's an article, an obligation to an extraordinary commissioner to make detailed financial forensics of all payments and alienation of assets in the last six months. Well, we can't behave now that someone's in there with the government commissioner and then they'll forget everything that's been going on for the last six months, and the last... six months of the tarrapans. Who knows what's out there. And that's why we asked for the establishment of a parliamentary investigative committee, to determine the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35823	Thank you. Next replica representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35824	Thank you very much. Comrade Bernardić, my first impression after your debate is that you are offended because you were not informed in time of a problem that you knew something about three to four months ago, if I understood correctly. That's how I realized because you said you've known for several months that the government was doing nothing, but that you were getting ready, and for today you came ready after a few months. But good. Two important things, so we've already been through a similar procedure here in this House, the famous law on pre-profit deals, comes fellow Linic here and says this is our tool to solve the problems of liquidity, thousands and thousands of blocked non-payment companies, etc. He suggested the following, the debtor, the believer, the Ministry of Finance, the IRS and the public notary are sitting at the table. We ask him where the court is, he says we'll see. We've fixed that law a few times. The SDP says perfectly, we adopt, we go into the process and it lasts until today, the Law on Pre-price settlements. We offer better now, but you say it's no good. We say, we want the state to have the cards in hand to play, that it has its own plan, if it doesn't pass this plan that you stand for, that the bankers themselves do it. And I'm sorry that you're at that level in that sense because you told us here that we're agents of the banks. It's just that your disagreement with lawmaking makes you feel that you're just the bank agents, and you might want to think about your role in all of this because it seems to me that you're wrong, and this country needs a moment and a start. I think that's what this law is offering right now, regardless of our differences, whether it was five to twelve, whether it was on time, if we could have avoided something before because if you knew it all, let's offer us your solution that you've been preparing for a few months and just three points, just three points that you stand for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35825	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35826	First of all, I'm not offended, I'm sad, I'm sad, and my heart hurts that this had to happen this way. Those three months... Well, we didn't know, if we knew for sure, we would certainly be putting pressure on the institutions you've been running for the last year, a year and a half that they didn't know, for example, the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How come these institutions didn't know? Agent Banks, I certainly didn't do it, and I believe neither did you, but if there were any, they certainly are. If you have any objections, and if you have any objections to any law or pre-determined. So why haven't you offered to amend that law in a year and a half? Could you offer them? So look, could you offer a change? You've mentioned what's wrong now, but you have a year, a year and a half, all the instruments, you haven't offered any changes. How can I tell you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35827	Thank you. Next replica representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35828	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bernardic, I agree with your presentation completely. And during your presentation, you mentioned accounts of companies that were blocked only by Agrokor concert. However, what's a bigger problem and we haven't talked about here so far except for small suppliers, except for large suppliers, other than trasated bonds and the like is that this crisis is slowly spilling over to other companies, companies that are not part of Agrokor's concert but are linked to their business with Agrokor. And it is a real danger to the Croatian economy. And that is what the Croatian economy and Croatian gross social product draws towards the bottom. So this growth we've had so far he'll probably fall now, gentlemen from HDZ on the other side too. 70% exposure to the company, so only incompetent administrations can do that. It's an honor to our managers in Croatia, but these people are simply incapable. And now they say, we passed this law, we brought you this bill because we talked to who? With management again within Agrokor concert. They caused the whole crisis. Why didn't you talk to someone else? Why didn't you talk to the suppliers that the MOST likes to basement small suppliers, farmers, the OPGs, but you talked to who? With Todorovic again. This law is the protection of the great boss of Todorovic and the purchase of time so that in the next 15 months he may be dislocated to some interesting South American state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35829	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35830	Dear Representative Vidovic, above all I fully understand your concern, for jobs unfortunately not in the county where you come from, it is Sibenik-Knin County where thousands of people left their homes and counties last year, Sibenik-Knin County, which looks better with its looks and potential than the Caribbean and on the list of Adriatic counties is last per GDP. And this all you've been saying about opening new jobs that you're trying with a detailed plan that I've had the opportunity to see in your county is something that I think in Croatia we all need to be aware that in this way and that's semi-interventionism with uncertain consequences we can't solve. Therefore, full support for that programme you are propagating, which you are offering to protect people who are leaving in an increasing number, especially the interior of that beautiful part of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35831	Thank you. The next replica of Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35832	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague Bernardić, according to the available financial data from 2015, is 10 companies that fall under this law meet the criteria of systemically important companies for the Republic of Croatia. These are companies that, if they come into financial difficulties, I think it's clear to all of us that the whole state is shaking and that this law is trying to prevent the possible collapse of the economy in that case. I will repeat that these financial reports are available from 2015. So these companies were developing and doing business in 2015, '14, '13, '12, and '11. And you made yourself available a month and a half ago. And where were you in '15, '14, '13, '12, '11? I don't understand why you didn't send the competent institutions to do your job then. And number two, I as an economist and entrepreneur, and it's exactly a small, or micro entrepreneur, can only tell you that you're economically and entrepreneurialally totally executed if you don't realize that just by saving Belja all those small suppliers, entrepreneurs, OPGs and craftsmen are being saved. And three, please don't insult the only man who has the courage to file a criminal report which is not in his workplace because of the disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35833	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35834	First of all, I didn't insult anyone. I just said it was indicative of me. There's probably a reason, but it's indicative. As for White, yes, 25 thousand acres, thousands of small subcontractors, subcontractors. So we're strategically interested in saving it, not selling it out. Because some in Croatia would like to watch a rerun of what's going on, it's been going on in the '90s, and that's, you're insulting the company, you're tearing down the value of the property, and then you're looking for gold coke and you're bringing out gold coke. That's what this is about. And what were we doing? Well, you don't mean, you mentioned system companies and employees. So what's next now that you're, I mean, I didn't realize the intensity of your intervention in the debate. What are you up to next? Break into Zagreb Holding? Break into HEP this way? You said he had 10 companies. Is it a plan to get into each of these companies? You have to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35835	Thank you. Next replica representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35836	Thank you, dear colleague Bernardich. This is a top problem in the country today. I will point out once again that apparently Prime Minister Plenkovic behaves as if it were another day in the office. He was here till before noon, went and asked God what he's doing right now. Maybe he's eating these chocolates that his colleague Vujcic gave him, resting, thinking about those things. But what's important here is to tell people, it's important to say that at this point we're being watched by 25,000 people who've been blocked by companies who don't know if they're going to get paid this month. And that's why someone needs to answer. You have to take responsibility, you have to give certain answers. Is the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister Plenkovic ready here? Are they willing to take responsibility if these people wait another month's pay, and they knew everything. Because the minister said she personally analyzed those companies' HBOR reports. And we haven't received an answer yet whether the HBOR money was paid to companies that were blocked after two months. I would like the Minister here to say whether the HBOR has paid that money or not after granting the loan, to hear very clearly those answers and how it is possible that the HBOR analyses did not establish all these risks that took place today. And is it possible that anyone in Croatia believes Minister Maric had nothing to do with this. Is that possible? Do you think people who watch TV today believe? So who are you kidding? Well, people aren't naive. Everyone knows how things work unfortunately with HDZ, and on that side, I think Prime Minister Plenkovic and Parliament President Bozo Petrov For those 25000 families were obliged to sit here all day long. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Not looking out here somewhere from the chair. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Maybe eating the chocolates that Wolfie gave in Mostar. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35837	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, I'm asking you nicely for 19 seconds you've gone too far. So I'm not letting anyone because it's too many replicas and this is the second club we have today. So it's almost half past five. I'm asking you nicely to stick to the time. Next MP, Agent Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35838	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Bernardich, when you say it, it's your fault, then we say it's your fault. And it's all our global fault, and I'm from this back bench, and I see you all around, you're all innocent to me until I come to each and every one of you and then I find out. You've done something wrong, Bauk has sinned, Maurus Ivanovic and every row. I've found for everyone here where he's sinned. And we all know here about each and every one of us who has sinned in the past. Right? And now we're discussing it in front of our people and 25000 possible blocked or not and we're discussing who's gonna like it better on the camera so that it or who's gonna get more like it, who's gonna go live like our co-worker who swings students here in the halls. But says lex Agrokor or lex perkovic. Lex Perkovic designed to protect only one man who...... No, the first one's Perkovic. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I wouldn't move my index finger for him. I wouldn't move a small finger for this one if his fate wasn't linked to thousands and thousands of Croats and Croats in our country. Furthermore, when I look at your great concern, taking care of all the little OPGs who are going to fail, not charge their goods, they won't be able to pay their directors, so I wonder where was that worry when my colleague Jakovina gave his first associate, i.e. His wife's O.P.G. 2.78 million kuna grants to resuscitate his O.P.G. Where were all those little OPGs that were supposed to survive with that money or when he gave both Todorovic and all the others who got 70 million kuna for recovery? Thank you. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35839	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35840	So, what are you guys mad at? So I didn't tell you it was your fault? A big part here that's in Parliament and on this side probably isn't guilty, but it could be if it takes responsibility for one of the experiments we found ourselves in. You don't have to feel called, but my question is that my colleague Glasovic just threw something out of my bench. Yeah, until the 1990s. Oh, my people, the whole problem is that until the 1990s, those who ran the game, ran the game after the 1990s. It's a taste of trouble. So did you, did you listen to Mr. Whiteman? I don't think he could have explained it more plasticly and clearly. Did you fight in the Homeland War to house state property? I believe you didn't. That's what we should be aware of here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35841	Thank you. Next replica representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35842	Thank you very much, Reverend Bernardic. You're right when you say that this whole situation has rooted in the operation of HDZ governments, just as you're right when you say that Minister Zdravko Maric definitely knew what was going on in Agrokor and it's not right that until the last moment he was hiding the real truth. However, the SDP had a government from 2011 to 2015 and then everyone responsible could know very well what was going on with Agrokor. Here are the publicly available analyses of Slovenian economists from 2012 when Mercator was bought that Agrokor would fail within 3 years, from 2012. This has nothing to do with the Most, or the HDZ. In 2015 Agrokor faked his balance sheet, they did not include companies in the Netherlands that bought Mercator, which were extremely in charge. What did you do then? When we look at government reports in the period of the government of Zoran Milanovic, who gave Agrokor state subsidies, each year 100 million kuna and more? Who allowed him to mess with transfer prices, be late with taxes, get his tax debts out of date? So you had, this isn't a story of the last three, four months, this is a story that lasts just like you said before and you said it yourself from the time of the former state, and it continued in this country. You knew very well, you were all waiting for the last moment and now instead of acknowledging the shared responsibility I am now listening here to the outwittings of the SDP and HDZ who is more guilty. You're guilty of both, some of you are a little more, but so are you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35843	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35844	Dear Mr. Bunyan, it only seems that you knew what was going to happen. You say the Slovenians analyzed that Agrokor would fail, so they bought it, after they realized that the collapses bought it. So please be serious. What are you talking about here? So do you know what the situation was in 2011? Individence, economic downturn, debts, unsolved Swiss problem you're up for. But we've settled it, you're late on that train, I'm trying to tell you that you need to get the debate back to gravity. Yes, support for rural development is something that must be no matter which government is in power because we cannot allow what we want to get past as a river cloth by this law, which is a devastation of rural space. 25 thousand hectares of white, seven thousand hectares of Vupik, seven thousand hectares of milk, and my men are all connected. Well, it goes down like a ticket tower if something moves tectonic. And this dances on the edge, and that's why we begged you for seriousness. Three months you know what's going on, a year you might know what's going on, there's no reaction, solution five to twelve, zero, here on the table take it or leave it. That way you can't work a dialogue, and then you can't have a consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35845	Thank you. Next replica representative Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35846	Thank you very much. Col. Bernardic, therefore, is threatened by the Croatian financial system, not just the food industry, not only... would it not be normal for the Minister of Finance to sit here today, and not for this to look like a bad soap opera changing the minister. One is responsible for the INA, the other is responsible for Agrokor and vice versa. I'll repeat why the bill favors large capital and wealth, not workers. It's very simple, the total debts are 45 billion kuna, of which the exposure to banks is 22 billion kuna, plus the factoring 2 billion kuna, so it's enough that banks together with larger suppliers in the religious council process simply throw everything out. So I repeat what you have pointed out, the appeal that the existing changes are changed through the bankruptcy law, with two novels, so the active role of the state and the clusterisation or division of suppliers into groups where everyone decides on their claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35847	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35848	Thank you, counsel. That's what we as responsible people suggested together when the water came to the throat, five to twelve after Friday. And your question is essentially that small suppliers, farmers, warlords, gardeners, heroes were not received at all by the government or consulted in the process. You asked, the answer is silence against those people who feed their families and who protect the rural area in Croatia. The Croatian financial system, you mentioned ministers, is the whole problem, as we can believe on this proposal and example of the government when we have a minister who defends the bill that was meant to defend the minister. When we're on the INA case of the same minister defending the bill that was supposed to defend the minister. When we have the Minister of Education for which the Parliamentary Committee on Ethics said what he said, when we have Mr. Minister Maric, who intervened already in the food industry of Maric the second. How, therefore, can we put our trust in this system on this basis? Perhaps it would be best if now that Mrs. Dalic is here, she answered how the INA Commission is progressing and where we are in the phase of the purchase of INA shares.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35849	Thank you. Next replica representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35850	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your colleague Bernardić, you say this procedure, this law has not yet been seen in the Croatian Parliament, you said that in your opening part and then you continued to ask us, consult us, contact us, we will give you a solution. And I wonder if there is a serious political option in Croatia, if there is a serious legislator who would dare when it comes to companies with difficulties to ask the SDP. After the experience you have afforded them by adopting the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement, they are also asking us not to ask you for advice because you have desolated them in tens of thousands of jobs. You passed a law under which the State, through the Ministry of Finance, FINA, write off claims from these small entrepreneurs that you now advocate after paying the state VAT after paying the state a profit tax because that claim entered their current business for a year and it was not a problem for you. For two years, you've done it, professional public, academy, colleges have told you in SDP, quit, change that law. Comrade Djujic, you were in the Parliament and you do not know that you yourself changed it before the end of the term. ... Madam Vice President, calm him down and warn him, he's nervous because he's not talking about what he's talking about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[/Intruder Opačić: Slowly. My colleague, please.]] So, Madam Vice President, protect me from Mr. Djujic and let him read a little about what happened... [[/Intruder Opačić: I will. Comrade Djujic, please.]] The term of office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder Opačić: I will. Just keep up your line.]] So, my colleague Bernardić, after 2 years you saw how unconstitutional it is and then you remembered that this procedure should be brought into the bankruptcy law and that decision to leave it to the courts, exactly what we are doing with this law. Therefore, we will not ask you for advice in order not to suggest the same unconstitutional solution again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35851	I gave you a little... the time they took from you, but now you're really running out of time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35852	... that you have the best answer in your last, we will not ask you for advice and that is the only truth in this process. [[Specially enabled.]] If you wanted to consult anyone you could have sat down before, we could have talked about the problem and we could have seen together how to solve this big problem. Of course there'd be some more unanswered questions, but you didn't do it because no one needs to consult the opposition or anything, so I'd say to anyone who knows anything in this country. Why? Well, because some people think they're the smartest. Well, that's a big problem in Croatia, not just in politics. I don't think I'm the smartest and I'm always ready to talk. Yeah, and now I think it's supposed to work, and now we need to talk. I still think we should talk no matter what you've done, so I don't know a ministry that doesn't have any anymore. Okay. We have a law, if you're not satisfied with the law, why did you support it? If you're not satisfied with the law, why haven't you changed it? That's what this is about, so you have all the instruments and you haven't done it, and you haven't even talked about it. So how can you expect a result?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35853	Thank you. Next replica representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35854	Dear colleagues, I'm listening to this debate this morning, it's funny to some where this story tells jokes and people are going to lose 24 thousand jobs, it's funny to him but he might have money toss somewhere, he doesn't care. This reminds me of the legend of Nero, where Rome burns and the harp is played. I wonder how this barn got here. If we don't wake up, we're losing the state. What's going on here? This system now that they're imploding their pension system, the health system, what's going to be, the screenplay of Paraguay. You've had two decades to make a functional state, you haven't made a single key reform, you haven't made any, there's no framework, there's no framework for investment. We came, from self-government anarchy we came to a kleptocrat I call "Crossavia," what the inspectorate does. You have the same scenario repeated, pre-war deals, mass robbery, privatization of mass robbery. And you don't speak any of the '90s mass robbery, 5% land arranged today in Croatia, book problems, confiscation, nationalization. And those who ran that country since the '90s ran like thieves and they came back to this country and did this to this same country. Mr. Todorovic, same scenario, state incentive, transferred real estate to the family, created offshore companies Panama etc., etc.. If we don't wake up, I'm telling you what'll happen to you when you run out of defense pensions, what's it gonna be to you in Mark's square? You have also deliberately excluded Croats outside the country who can take this country out of social economic development. It's driven by the same characters. There the state's attorney's office is changing two characters from the former system, that Yugoslav one... and you've made an exact copy of the former state. One thing's missing, it's hyper inflation where you buy a newspaper of 10 dinars, tomorrow 150, and we take care of the workers. We don't care about the workers, here, but most of them... and their careers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35855	It's time. Thank you very much for the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35856	Thank you. Dear Mr. Glasnovic. I'll surprise you, I can't agree with you. You spent a part of your life in Canada. How many Canadian Croats were in the Croatian Parliament? How many Canadian Croats were in the Croatian Parliament? [[/Invader Glasnović: What?]] How many Croats in the German diaspora can help this country move forward? No one. And did we help the Croats from BiH? I've never seen that before. I didn't see any of the representatives of the Croats of BiH now make us have a better and more functional country and better conditions for people's lives. Yes, I agree with you. Same team changed addresses by the '90s. She went to HDZ and then 5% of the land wasn't in the books. 20 years of mass robbery, not a sustainable pension system...... Health system. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah, he's been tried and brought into line for the last four years. So that's what we're talking about here, do you understand? Just a change of address. ... And you said well, what is now the situation in Croatia, which is why I am extremely sorry and all the debates, calm tones of prime minister and associate in a situation that is not good for Croatia, in which Croatia dances along the edge are proof of this thesis of Rome burning and playing harp. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35857	And the last debate on yours, the replica of your presentation by Agent Marko Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35858	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bernardić here is the trust, somehow the key word that I noticed in your presentation, the trust that you pointed out, and I'm going to say that I believe in actually those whose workers and farmers we actually talked about here today most about small suppliers, the employees in Konzum have never been anywhere on the list of high priorities. Someone who has actually systematically destroyed the primary sector of the economy, so agriculture and the secondary sector is industry. In this way, we have, in some ways, destroyed small environments throughout Croatia, and we are now surprised that we have no more people, which is why we are reducing our population. Perhaps we can only single out that narrow belt along the coast where we developed the tertiary sector, where tourism developed. Of course we bear all part of the responsibility, all the parties who have exercised power. I'm sure they can agree to that part of it, but colleagues from the HDZ are the ones that you insist on making us the same. It's a part of the public thing for you, and it's good to sell to you to say so, but we're not the same. We know what state Croatia and 2000 were in. We know what condition she was in in 2011. Unfortunately, we haven't changed that model, and what are we witnessing today? We are witnessing a final act of an economic model that was established precisely in the 1990s in the largest part of the territory of a model of capitalism that fed on state subsidies, which did not develop free competition, but actually led to monopoly, but destroyed and the result that we now have is here before us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35859	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35860	Well, fellow Vesligai, I think this debate has shown that you are a responsible and objective man because you have seen that responsibility and error are not uniform. They're always multi-significant, and they're individual. And there were always. No one is spared that responsibility and error. But what is important is to say and what is important to point out that twice Croatia pulled itself out of the fungi of recession in the 1990s, i.e. '99. In 2000, when we inherited it in economic downturn and in international isolation, opening Euro-Atlantic processes. And the last year of 2011. So then after something good is done in the country, let's not spill that effort, let's shed that sweat, but let's watch how to make it better. Because one of the main problems in our country has been that, in history, if the system changes in the last 150 or 180 years would usually be the first finding of a new establishment the day after this was nothing, it moved and re-started. We can't move again in Croatia every time. Let's continue what's right, but let's evaluate what's wrong and reject it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35861	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35862	Dear Madam Vice-President, Ms. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal for a law on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in commercial societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. And right away, I'm going to say that we're going to support him for the reason that this law is intended to protect employees in the first place, and then also creditors who are suppliers in the first row of goods and services to their debtor. We'll back him for a reason because the law is in accordance with the Constitution. Our Constitution, which is why I have brought with me the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Articles 16 and 50, allows the State in certain cases to restrict the rights and rights of ownership and to take into account the principle of equality, proportionality, restrictions on ownership on the one hand and on the other hand the measures and objectives which will meet that law. There is also a European directive that says that this same interference in ownership rights, in freedom and rights must have a legitimate objective, and here it is a public interest to protect the Croatian financial system and the national economy and this is a legitimate goal. Furthermore, this measure must be proportionate to that objective, which means that the restriction of these rights must benefit the wider part, and in this law, this law makes good for both employees and suppliers and all creditors and thus justifies such a law. Finally, this measure must not impose an excessive burden on addressees, and in this case it would be a more difficult measure to make a preliminary settlement and a more difficult measure would be bankruptcy, and we must be aware of this, so that this law allows the Government to propose an intervention allowing companies to go through this law of the extraordinary administration practically through a difficult period of their business without entering a pre-departure settlement and bankruptcy. That's the purpose of this law. It is further justified, this law is justified and justifies the urgency of its adoption by the fact that it is a system company that has over 5,000 employees whose debt significantly exceeds 7 and a half billion kuna. And clearly, this kind of company, of course, has an impact on the gross social product, has an impact on the charge of state budgets. This company, this concert counts 73 companies in its composition. So we're wondering, what alternative would that make to this law? What's the alternative to this law and what do you do? SDP colleagues say to change in one part of the Law on bankruptcy and pre-bank settlement. Do any of us ever think about what it's like to go that way, what does it mean to conduct a pre-fashion procedure? To conduct a pre-profit settlement in 73 companies because all companies in the concert are connected together as a guarantee to each other. 73 companies and 73 pre-banking deals on more than 10 trade courts in the region, we think that this company can go into a pre-fashion deal. How long would we have wondered how long it would have been since the opening of the pre-war proceedings until he got rid of it? What about the companies that got into it? How and how do you get out of this process? Well, we just witnessed that, and we have this experience thank God, it would be better if we didn't have it from the time you proposed the Financial Business Act and pre-fashion settlement, when the state intervened, took over the responsibility of the judiciary, and it took two years for the SDP government to realize that it was anti-constitutional. The fact that the institutes, the HAZU, objected to this law, that employers whose pre-demand settlement had taken enormous amounts, because of this Financial Business Act and the pre-demand settlement, were destroyed in tens of thousands of jobs in small businesses. They were denied claims after the state had paid VAT and this claim cost them income the current year on which they paid the profit tax. And the state was so strong, convinced that she could do anything, so SDP suggested, that then these entrepreneurs were forced to fire their employees. By this law we go in the other direction, we go in the direction of introducing an extraordinary administration that within a year has to stabilise business, firstly take care of employees, take care of suppliers. And that's what I want to do again now, the creditors who deliver goods and services as suppliers, not for banks that want to imply it, not for the Todoric family. So, this law is trying, and we're going to make it possible for companies to get out of trouble without entering a pre-fashion deal and not going into bankruptcy. I argue that what is now happening in a concert where Alvarez & Marshall is engaged that in a certain way the adoption of this law, or the proposal of this law, has accelerated the procedure for the company to go on its own to resolve the management issue. It is respected that this law allows the government to interfere in the work of a company and that is to be careful that it proposes a trade court in Zagreb that will lead these proceedings under this law, it proposes an extraordinary administration. On the other hand, it is also transferred that the opening of proceedings under this law whether it is opened by a debtor or by a believer must have the consent of the debtor which is then implicated as if the debtor does not accept the suggestion of the believer or does not propose to enter into this process to do so, and then the law is exceeded. It's like one of the objections to this law, which is not true, it's not true. Anyone who knows better will know it's not true. Because when their claims are not paid after a certain period of time and after a period of maturity, the conditions are met very quickly for the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, my dear friends, the conditions for opening the proceedings are met and the application for opening the proceedings and the court determines whether the conditions for opening the bankruptcy proceedings have been met. After that, it may also be the best part of this law, after which the court finds that there are conditions for ten firms in the Republic of Croatia that this law can cover. God forbid any of those ten are more found in this law, but for this company that you're saying is only because of her and the written law, whether she wanted it or not, she wanted to apply herself for entry into this procedure or ignoring the request of the Prophet will come this procedure. It is feared by the banks that the government will now know that by proposing its own person to the extraordinary administration, the bank will now take over what they themselves have to do together with the company, which is the importance of this law, which is the size of this law. The second objective of this law, which is specifically to be singled out within a year, is the extraordinary administration, together with a council of creditors, together with the advisory body, to launch the restructuring process through the settlement proposal. In the first year of the new loan, the aim is to enable new loans to be paid to suppliers, first row small suppliers, to mention this again, to enable their business, to enable them not to fire their employees, to receive a year's rest both in the concert and in 73 companies, and during that time enable the management to make a settlement that will either go into restructuring or in any other way try to take systematic measures to keep the company going. And if it turns out to be a failure, if it's not possible to do it for any reason, you're left with dear friends of what you suggested, you're left with a prerogative and bankruptcy. It remains, therefore, if this law, if the extraordinary administration with its religious council, if it fails because it is simply a dubious in the company such that it is not possible to resolve with this new loan which will be later than a year from the 1st day, then we will be in the position that you are now in favour of. And we claim in HDZ, and we at HDZ argue that it should be possible for a year by closing the wall around the company, freezing the obligations that are coming at this time, freeing the company with new and new means to give you the opportunity to function both Jamnica and Kraš and all those who are leaned on and I don't already know which companies print, etc., etc., which are leaning on the concert itself. And I believe in this process that it is possible, that it is accessible and that it is a practical attempt to save a large part of Croatian employees. There's only about 50,000 employees in Agrokor. More than 100,000 employees, some speak as 150 who are business related to the company. And what it would mean for the Croatian financial system, for the stability of the Croatian and national economies, that this company goes bankrupt. And what you're saying, this proposal just to intervene a little in the bankruptcy law, the company is pushing into a pre-determined procedure. And we need to be aware of that. And for me, it's even more acceptable for us in HDZ to try to collect, gather, gather and believers and suppliers and employees who, as you know, are involved in the procedure of both the state and the government because it's an important company. Therefore, when we talk about this law that is not anti-constitutional, when we talk about a law that is not against European directives, when we talk about trying to save small suppliers and employees, then don't propose bankruptcy and pre-banking. Too much bad experience the Croatian economy has with a pre-fashion deal, too. And if it's necessary, the epilogue of Agrokor will come to this process. That's why we at the HDZ Club support this law. They'd be happier if it hadn't come to him, and they'd be happier if he didn't have to. Yes Antonio Alvarez III. And a team that will participate with him in this process solves this without this law. And that everything this law wants to solve is solved by them. It would be the best law in Croatia's history if not implemented. And this is a warning, do it yourself, or you'll come under this law, and you won't be able to say that you don't care what the government thinks about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35863	Uh, almost the same number of replicas as the prime minister somewhere around 22 replicas on your exposure. First replica representative Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35864	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Bacic, I listened very carefully, very carefully, I understood absolutely nothing. Poor mother to us all with politicians like you. You talk a lot, you don't say anything. You're attacking the SPD for pre-fashion law and we're here to discuss Antonio Alvarez III. Which I hope for warmly, and I'm sure in a few years, he'll become a member of the HDZ. You say this is the best law ever passed. God save us once again all the laws you've ever passed, because if you'd never been in a position to make laws, it would never have happened to Agrokor or all of this together. Never. I ask you not to waste time all together until late in the night, you have the majority, be brave and say we support our tycoon Todorovic, we will support him with this law, not small suppliers, not Croatian interests, but Mr Todorovic because you owe him all of you, vote it, nothing will happen to you because you have already robbed Croatian taxpayers and again won elections so that one time more or less will happen to you. Be a man, have the balls like General Royce said, there's also a defense attorney, Nothing will happen. There will be no tent. [[Intruder Opačić: A colleague of Beljak, please.]] There won't be tents, there won't be Clem, there won't be Bujanca, there won't be anything because on the other hand...... [[Intruder Opačić: Please.]] I apologize to everyone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder Opačić: I am asking you nicely, give a little choice of words in Parlamettno, just that.]] I think I said everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35865	Thank you very much, the answer to Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35866	Comrade Beljak, I am increasingly convinced that you have strayed into the Parliament and that you or you are not reading the materials that are being delivered to you or are unable to receive them. I'm sure you didn't read the law. And in order for you to understand me, you had to read the law. Is that hard for you to read, not to be? I don't know what it is, but in any case, you have no idea what you're talking about, because I'm saying you read it, then you might be able to replicate it specifically with arguments. And in the absence of arguments, you're trying to insult, disrespect, and that's why I'm really afraid that you belong here. I didn't say this was the best law ever passed because it hasn't been passed yet and I guess I know the procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but I said it would be best if you never... Because it means that the company that's in trouble right now has solved its own problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's hard for you to understand, it's not for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35867	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. Next replica, distinguished colleague Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35868	Mr. Bacic, you're such a reasonable man. So here we have a few things to say. First, unfortunately, time's up. So both yesterday and today and tomorrow, there are some changes in the dependent societies of Agrokor, which unfortunately have their shares pawned. And the ownership structure has already changed. So it's a two to three-month delay. It's actually going to be one shock, because it's going to be questionable what's actually going to be saved. Here's without emotion rationally and rationally, I don't understand either economically or humanly why it doesn't go into changes to the bankruptcy law where it would be possible, so every company in Croatia that gets into trouble so that it can have so-called. Seniority if he finds himself a financier for his current obligations, but every one. Not the one who has 5,000 employees, who has 5 billion kuna, minus 3 billion kuna minus, so each. Weekly or monthly companies in Croatia are in trouble because they are more or less the result of a single ordnanceal capitalism or a chronic capitalism to say in word because they are connected to the state. So, unfortunately, that's your economic model, and that's what's gonna come. And that's why when we were giving solutions we were well-intentionedly talking about not changing an article of the bankruptcy law, but actually ten to fifteen. So to solve these problems in the future, so to which Agrokor is today. These are problems since yesterday, not since the day before yesterday. So they are one of the wrong forms of economic policy in Croatia that has been going on since the 1990s, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35869	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdash Doncic, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35870	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Hajdash, you've been saying that for a long time I don't know how many years you've said three, five, six months a problem in Agrokor. If that's what you know about this problem, or you think the banks know it, or you think the creditors know it's a problem in Agrokor, or you think they know the suppliers. So who pushed them to deliver the goods to him if he was guided by your logic? Who made them give them credit if they knew it was bad there? It is not in the interest of the suppliers of counterpart Hajdash, nor the bank, and at least the employees, it is not the interest of the Croatian society to have the company go bankrupt. And everyone was slowly closing their eyes, counting on it to get rid of it. Because if they weren't the one who prevented their colleague, Hajdash, from launching a procedure with pre-determined, according to the Law of bankruptcy and pre-warrant settlement or bankruptcy. Who stopped them if the concert was so bad that they opened up a bankruptcy on him? They know that they are very dependent on a company that distributes all over Croatia throughout the region of their products. And that's why I told you, and they're not interested in bankruptcy, and their colleague Doncic is not in the interest of a pre-price settlement. They're only interested in getting new money, not being burdened by existing old loans to pay back that money. And I know you've read the law, because you wouldn't dare replicate it if you hadn't read it. Article 39 says that this new, fresh money has what you said about seniority. It has, it's Article 30. See Article 39. Therefore, no one is in the interest of employees, nor of banks, nor of the believers, nor of suppliers that this goes into bankruptcy, but let us try to help through this law not to reach it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35871	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35872	My friend Bacic, no one happier than me. No one happier in the SDP, no one happier in this House, no one happier in Croatia that you are right and that you have invented a law that can solve such a big problem. That would be a magic wand. But from your presentation, I see you've all been executed together. The Prime Minister has executed himself. At the beginning of today's speech, the prime minister said here that this was not about any particular law on Agrokor, that this was about one system law. You spoke here now on behalf of the club, all the time you were talking only about Agror and 83 companies. Well, either the Prime Minister's right or you're right, but you both can't be. There's no law that can pay back the debts. There's no such magic wand, it doesn't exist. You here in that law write about some extraordinary administration that will be appointed by the government with the help of the courts. Well, Agrokor's got it the day before yesterday. Alvarez the third. Well, no one happier than me. Well, I'd like Maric to have another handle it, not Alvarez the third. But Maric the other one's gone. There isn't another one in the Parliament either. The prime minister boasts that the minister has moved away from meddling in the problem. So what kind of government are you that the prime minister boasts that one of his most important ministers has escaped from such a problem? We don't know where this is going to go, neither do you, nobody knows. This could result in hundreds of thousands of people losing their jobs, getting out into the streets, having riots, what are you going to call, tenters? Then who are you gonna call? We don't even know what the background of this is, and we don't even know it because it's geopolitical or it's just economics. If it's geopolitical, then we're paying back the debt, then this is a retaliatory blow to the prime minister's visit to Ukraine and to everything he said there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35873	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic, on the line. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35874	My colleague Stazic, I am no irreparable optimist but I am quite realistic and you could hear that I said that what you are offering, you as SDP now, it can really happen if this law fails, it can happen if this law fails, but at least it tried not to happen. I feel like you're calling the street and a hundred thousand people on the street and the downfall of that company, and I'm listening to you, and I feel like you're calling for it to end up in bankruptcy as soon as possible to charge HDZ, so I understand your exposure. I said what we intend to do with this law of the extraordinary administration, but the extraordinary administration is not only an extraordinary commissioner proposed by the government, it is a court, there is also a Sanhedrin Council, which makes all the believers in the concert, there is an advisory council that is formed to help realise this project. Therefore, we aim to try and get the company out of trouble without losing its jobs and to make an opportunity through the extraordinary administration. That's the difference between us and what the SDP is saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35875	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35876	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bačić, of course this is the law that is before us, you think we should go with him, we think that intervention could be done in other laws, it's legitimate to discuss it. What's the problem with me and what you didn't give anyone today, and that's the next thing, we're going with a system law that doesn't solve a system problem. What's going on? You have, for example, a provision in Article 40(1) that the Commissioner may decide on whom to pay those obligations before which he will not. So the two of us are in debt, we're asking the company for a million kuna, he decides he won't pay you. At the same time you have a provision that you cannot sue during those 15 months, you will be exposed to the tax administration and everything that is charged from you and you will fail because the Commissioner has decided that he will pay me, not to you and because the law has said that you will not be able to charge in any way while this temporary administration lasts. And that's the problem, that puts us in an unequal position, that puts us in a better position than you. By decision, by discretionary decision of the Commissioners and possibly by the banks who must give him an opinion because they make up an absolute majority of the bank in the religious council and that is the problem. And that's why it would be better to handle this through a pre-fashion procedure where they're all the same and where no one can say I'll pay you, and I won't pay this one. It is your basic mistake with this law and he will be afraid to cause a lot of problems in practice, he will lead to the responsibility of the state for such treatment because you will sue the Republic when the Commissioner does not pay you and you will succeed and then we will all pay it out of the budget. So that's my view and I have a problem with that and these are the things we need to talk about to avoid one big potential damage to the budget and all the citizens. So let's talk about the kid, save them not banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35877	I thank my esteemed colleague Milenić. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35878	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Milenić, you're a lawyer, you've been a minister of justice and you know this issue very well, so it bothers me even more that you've only told the partial truth. You are not when you went to the end of this article in paragraph 40, and you should have known the general public. Who, rightly so, Commissioner with consent, you have failed to say, it is very important, with the agreement of the religious council, that a certain believer may pay off his claim. But there is also something in this article that would allow the believer to operate, so he cannot pay off just as much as when he estimates that the company asking him for funds could enable regular employment and continued production and protection of early jobs. That is what the Article 40 of paragraphs 1 and 2 states, and that is what you have failed to say that he can do so when he finds out that he needs to be a believer for regular business and that he must have the consent of a religious council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35879	I thank my esteemed colleague. I would ask you nicely not to interrupt the speaker while he has a reply to the replica while he has his presentation. The Honorable colleague of Peja Grbin's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is a violation of Article 238. The Rules of Procedure and its points 4 and 5 and 6 respectively, since the distinguished counterpart Bačić, in turn, defamed us of our parliamentary representatives, and of our obvious lies related to the same respected counterpart, Milenić. My colleague Bačić was very far away from the general rules of conduct, not only in the Parliament but in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35881	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino. The coat of arms, my standards that have broken your mind don't say that any of the MPs while I presided have violated any of the MPs' minds so that the breach of the Rules of Procedure doesn't seem to stand. You have a business opportunity to address the board of directors by thanking you for your observations. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is a distinguished colleague of Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grbin hurt that article in Rules of Procedure, which he said I hurt the Rules of Procedure by insulting the minds of SDP members and by telling the truth. So I'd like to ask Mr. Grbin when he answers the word to read article 40, because I don't have the time or the business possibility of whether I said it right or he slandered me when he said I underestimated the SDP's mind. So I'd like to ask you to read one more time, and when you're at the pay phone, I'd like to speak to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35883	I thank my colleague Bačić. I also don't see any breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would really ask you to have your attention and all the mind that we have, which dear God has given us to engage in solving this problem and to deal with the topic that is at the agenda today. Thank you. We move on to the next line, distinguished colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35884	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, I know it's not easy for you, you've been a parliamentary representative for a long time, you've been a minister, and I know it's not easy for you to represent a law in which deep down, you know, it doesn't offer solutions that can save the largest number of workers, small farmers and producers. You went out for a pay phone waving the Constitution and saying, that was the first thing you said your club would support this law because it was in accordance with the Constitution. Here I have on page 10 an explanation of legal experts who say not only is not in accordance with the Constitution but also with many other laws as well as with provisions, with the adoption procedure and EU regulations. Therefore, only on that side is the issue of this law. You're telling us not to offer anything. We are indeed offering and appealing to you that this week through the urgent changes to the bankruptcy law we solve this problem but not to drive the companies into bankruptcy, but to the contrary. We believe that the proposals we offer will provide enough time to save the food industry that is under collapse. At the same time that we will ensure the preparation of the tourist season, imagine what will happen to us if we crash and tourism in parallel to what is happening now with Agrokora. We believe that our changes to the bankruptcy law offer workers, workers, I stress. Because this law is the protection of large capital and trustees and his friends. Our proposal offers more protection to workers and suppliers than the proposal you offer. And what needs to be highlighted offers protection of the state, citizens, taxpayers from expensive lawsuits that threaten us if we pass this solution that you offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35885	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for this replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jovanovic, I do not find it difficult to defend this law. It would be a lot harder for me to defend the law that would take this company to a bankruptcy deal. Now, I believe that by means of this law it is possible that what you're trying to avoid, that is the fundamental difference between us and you. You're saying you're right, I'm also holding that breaking this concert would have a major impact on the tourist season. Only on Croatian islands is the largest food supplier and all that the concert provides is a velpro which is part of a concert. Therefore, it is very important to release and unblock the account of all companies as soon as possible, and I say there are 73 that are part of the concert. And to make it happen faster for us at the club or what the government would do, there's no faster way than that. Because that there's a faster way to unblock that company, so you can see that this law has severely reduced deadlines. What sometimes happens in a pre-demand settlement or in the bankruptcy law is 15 days, 3 months, 2 months, 60 days, or I don't know how it goes here for 2 days, 3 days, 5 days. So, not only are we passing the law by emergency procedure, but the law points to urgency by its provisions to unblock the companies that are currently blocked because of the fact that the Agrokora Tower itself is in big trouble and then clearly through it and all the companies that are connected to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35887	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bacic, so listening to this debate today, I'm not going to recapture it, but I'm going to try to ask a question to all of us here, so what's the situation we're in right now? So on the one hand, we have the preparation of a stand still, and at some half-worked stage where the owner, namely by companies and bankers, agreed to go into that story, is very uncertain because they don't have other partners in the story, they don't have suppliers, they don't have a state. What they have is competence. If what it says about a company that should be a consultant and a restructuring manager is true, then it must be something that is a reference and promises some kind of, what kind of, but relatively good outcome. If they've made it elsewhere, maybe they'll make it there. The question is, if that scenario doesn't work, if the stand still doesn't come together, if it doesn't spread to these other players, so to speak, then the law goes, this and this law goes. The state is practically taking control. Now we can talk one way or another, but there comes a man who's the commissioner of the state, which is also absurd, and that's what the court says, so the court confirms on the government's proposal, so there's no independence of what we're talking about, from the judiciary, from the executive authority, etc. So we have some kind of mix that's very strange, so we're getting into serious problems already and then there's the competence problem. Don't be offended by anyone who would possibly propose to run such a serious business tomorrow. I admire him honestly, but I think this is such a complex and complex case that these places for serious consultants and people of this profile must be. Whether these are them or others we have to see it, but there must be a certain framework. And these two scenarios have to mix to say so. That wasn't clear enough here pointed out and I'm asking here during the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35889	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Grcic, for the replica. Answer, esteemed colleague Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35890	I agree with my colleague, Greekic, in large part, but I do not agree with you in the part where the company's powers are not delimited, its procedure of signing the standstil contract and the appointment of Antonia Alvarez. It's a business run by a company. It would be best if she could do it, try the same agreement and banks and suppliers, and create the company itself a platform this law wants to make. But like you and I don't know if it's true, because one day they signed, the other day isn't so I don't know exactly. It's probably still that... It's a concert, whether it's signed or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we're passing the law so that if it doesn't come to him not to solve these accumulated problems in the company, the government can intervene with the law. And I agree with you. Certainly, the role of the government is important, because the government is proposing to the Commercial Court in Zagreb an extraordinary commissioner and it is important there. But imagine when he gives himself to the government for being dared to propose to an extraordinary commissioner. Imagine the right of Croatian citizens to resent the government if they stood aside. I think that given what the prime minister said about how much this company means to the financial system of Croatia. How important it is for this country's economy that the government does not have that committee to stand by, but must as far as possible enter into this law without still having to go to the constitutionality check. And in that, I hold that this law has been struck.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35891	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you have started your debate with words we will support this law because it is in accordance with the Constitution. Now you're suddenly a constitutional expert. I now suggest that when we adopt this law tomorrow, that is, when you adopt it, when you vote on it that maybe next week, here's the government to appoint you as its commissioner so that after Alvarez the third we get Bacic the first, given how much you understand each other now. The second thing, the state interventionism you're talking about and the interference of a state that allows such a law really makes this law historic, because such a law in this area hasn't been passed since the agrarian reform of '45. A year. And it's not unexpected for me to have HDZ suggest such a thing. I would ask you a question to my colleague Bačić, do you think small suppliers, those smallest companies can wait another 15 months to reach their funds after you lift the wall around the Agrokor you've been talking about this whole time. You need to save jobs and you need to save small suppliers about it we all agree, it's just a matter of ways. I believe that in the SDP, too, we believe that this law does not resolve it, but that this law ultimately cares only about the interests of the most important ones, these are banks, that is Mr. Todorovic, and that should be clearly said here. The same thing should not run away from the fact that tens of thousands of jobs in this country have been shut down and destroyed in the last 15 years by the failure of small and smallest firms and crafts which has been caused by this particular company that you are now writing the law about by your non-payments in the deadlines, by suffocating these companies and then by their capital taking over the same. You haven't even shown a shred of effort. You've been sitting in governments the last time. Not a single shred of effort to save these companies and those jobs 10 years ago, and that's what needs to be said. By lifting the wall around Agrokor we kill all those beyond that wall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35893	I thank my colleague Sasa Djujic. I would like to remind you not to insinuate the competences and abilities of any of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament, because it can also be subdued under that definition by Mr. Peđa Grbin. Replication response, dear colleague Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35894	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You don't have to excuse me for being disrespected by another representative. For example, a colleague named Grbin would probably hit me, but when my colleague Djujic says that, then I really don't get too tangled up. I'm not constitutional legal expert on fellow Djujic, but when I go to the debate, I try to prepare myself, so I ask those who know much better than I do. So I asked those who would have something to say about it to go out for a pay phone and talk about it. So I went to the government, so I saw which government constitutional and legal experts asked when this law was going and when I heard what names were involved, let me trust them much more than you. And the other thing, when you SDP respect us for the constitutionality of our laws, then I would remind you that it has not yet happened in the history of parliamentaryism in Croatia, parliamentism, that a law of the Constitutional Court has completely collapsed as it has brought down the Family Law for you, so it has brought down your curricula, so it has brought down your working obligation to the doctors. So he brought down your law on the protection of Dubrovnik's antiquities, because you wrote it the same for one person. Therefore, do not honor us in this way. First, look at how it was not so long ago, for years and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35895	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35896	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238, which states that during the hearing, the representative must not belittled or offended by the chairperson or other representatives. I think counterpart Bacic just did this to fellow Djujic very slyly insinuating, but insulting still and belittled in such a tone. This should not be allowed at meetings of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35897	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. I believe that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but apparently some of these MPs look forward to supplementing each other and thinking about irrelevant things and communicating those contents that are not suitable for this situation or this House. Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished colleague Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35898	Thank you very much. Articles 238 and 232 of the move away from the agenda and the demeaning speech related to the untruth given by his colleague Bačić. It's repeated over and over again, so let me finally point it out one more time. Never has the Constitutional Court annulled the curricula, the Constitutional Court has only disputed the adoption procedure in which the procedure adopted by the curricula was the same as the process of adopting a curricula and a Catholic religious science programme in secondary schools that no one has disputed. Therefore, the curricula has been introduced to all schools in my term.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35899	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for this remarks on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't think he's hurt his rules of procedure. And these locks of Mr. Bačić's tongue and escapades and other MPs, I hope you two can work it out with coffee in a friendly atmosphere. Thank you. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35900	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bacic did not insult me because he can't insult me because it doesn't matter what anyone is saying, but I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, even though you are one of the better presidents in this House, but by your conduct you are stepping away from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly because however you warned me earlier that I offended Mr. Bačić, and I did not, because I commended him because I really think he is an expert on all the issues and is talking about it, I think he would be a good government commissioner for Agrokor Bačić and so I just positively told him, I didn't insult him. And you warned me that I was insulting him, and behind that he said what he said about me that didn't offend me, but I think it's a common practice in this House to lead a session in the same way and equally towards everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35901	Thank you. In no way do I think that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, nor have I in any way allowed any other person to act differently from any club compared to any of you. Thank you. Let's move on. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35902	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bačić, when the Living Wall criticises the state of the company you claim that we are demagogues, populists, to collect points. Here came an independent expert, one of the best experts in the world who allegedly has years of experience in the analysis and supervision of companies and their rescue, and said that in his entire career he had seen no worse condition than in Agrokor. Now I'm wondering if this grade of his is also populism and demagogy, or whether you're looking at that statement a little differently. He literally said that there was a wasteland in Agrokor, and I ask you who was the executive director in Agrokor last year, and whether that executive director you allowed to create a budget for this year and whom you proposed to be prime minister in June last year, bears any responsibility for the situation in Agrokor, or for that desolation that Mr. Alvarez manager and sings the Danes of Hits yesterday in his first public performance. So, do you think that your finance minister who made the waste in Agrokor is capable of running some other policy now in the Croatian government? Is he able to settle the debts of the Croatian state if he failed to resolve them in the company where he was executive director? Is he capable of anything but selling some spins about growth, a better future, and what was the motive for a man who was not a member of the HDZ being brought into the Croatian government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35903	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35904	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I am not so competent as to judge what he is and what an expert Mr. Alvarez is. According to what I am and probably you read from the media has an envious business career. So there's nothing left to do but believe that what he's saying is true. But on the other hand, after that statement he made, that he found a wasteland, as you said everything he did would be a success. Well, even in that context, we might be able to observe a statement like that even though I'm saying it, he knows it best. As for the finance minister, as well as the coffee is the minister of finance and how the state finances run, the data is best told again, which is that for last year the GDP growth was 2.9 and 3%, respectively, so these macroeconomic indicators are very good, that the smallest since 2008 seems to me a deficit of the state budget, that this Parliament has also adopted a tax reform, that all macroeconomic indicators for this year say that this will be about 3.2% growth again that we will have such a low deficit. So, again, I can't judge what he's like, but I can judge by the data they're showing, they're drawing the order of the finance minister. Whether you're angry or not, he's a very successful minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35905	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you mentioned a lot in your debate, and now in the replicas a pre-fashion settlement, I just need to re-underline something for the Croatian public, as I recall and HDZ voted for the law, although he participated in its creation through the amendments. Now, when we talk about the criteria for passing these laws and what we want to do with that law, I would say in a mathematical dictionary that this is an equation with all the unknowns. As counterpart Doncic said, in the end, we don't even know what we're going to defend because the ownership structure of Agrokora is already changing. If it's really the only criterion of passing this law that's in accordance with the Constitution, then I'm really wondering why I've been here all day discussing it. The protection of the financial system is certainly a commendable motivation, but my colleague thinks that the financial system is better protected by the state developing mechanisms that will guarantee the collection of invoices. As I said before, you deliver the service or the goods, you issue the bill, the state takes its own right away, and she doesn't really care whether you're charged or not, whether you're ever going to charge yourself or not. And that is the root of all the problems we have in Croatia. Why do some suppliers have so many claims about Agrokor? It's just, just so much. Unfortunately, this bill favors the big ones, and I have nothing, I have no problem trying to save Frank, Vindi, Kras and all the big suppliers. But I'm curious about what's going to happen to Peru and Djura delivering peaches, say, Agrophricus. They depend on life on it practically, their only income in often is this very reception. And these are tickets to Germany. And in the end, when we're talking about the equation with all the strangers and the passing of this law, a colleague sent me a message during the debate and said, "So you've been talking about nothing all day, you're talking about bread with 7 Agrocors." Somehow, I feel like we're talking about it, too, because we're not sure what's going to turn out in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35907	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Hajduković, you are partly right and it is not a secret, HDZ supported and actively participated in the adoption of the Financial Business Act and pre-fashion settlement and we raised our hand for the law. However, you were distracted by the thought that you then changed it three times, but we no longer supported you because we saw that what was fundamentally foreseen, planned and good intentions went in a completely different direction, that with that law we completely pulled the decision from the judiciary and gave it to the Ministry of Finance, the FINA and that this procedure was no longer seen as it should have been led. And then, I've already said it many times, you changed it and made it acceptable when you made it... You also changed when you practically reduced it to a very small number of provisions and threw the main treatment under the law into the bankruptcy law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we didn't follow you in the part where you sprayed the law and when you sprayed it, then there was just chaos with small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35909	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. As did Prime Minister Bačić, you once again called for constitutional principles stemming from the bill's proposal and he stated that through the law, social progress, social well-being, social justice, the general principle of proportionality, you put emphasis on constitutional law, state intervention and proportionality in the restriction of property corporate rights. And that's an argument for you, I'm not also a constitutional expert or a bankruptcy but I read and listen to what those who say are. And now one lady, an expert who has been engaged for almost 30 years in domestic and comparative, and international and... or bankruptcy law, says that the proposal of this law is contrary to the basic principles of civil, commercial and modern bankruptcy law and, as such, would question legal predictability and legal certainty in the Croatian legal system. She also urged the Government of the Republic of Croatia to reflect once again on the justification of proposing such a law to the Croatian Parliament, and that MPs in the Croatian Parliament will, regardless of their political orientation, hope, if the law is still voted on, hope to deny their support for unmade illegal and dangerous rules that are wanted to become law. That's not what I said, said people who have a lot more experience than you and me. Secondly, you mentioned that this proposal for a law is in line with European directives and the same expert at a number of points that... This bill states, i.e. on 26 June 2017, that the reformed EU Regulation 2015/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on insolvency procedures will apply within 2 months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Regulation does not provide for a single insolvency procedure against the assets of related companies in its Articles 56 to 77, and... of legal personality, but provides for rules on cooperation and communication between the authorities of insolvency proceedings which are open to the assets of each individual member of the group of related companies. The regulation does not also provide for any role... in such procedures and foresees that you, as a proposer, or government at all, did not know about the said provisions of the regulation, the EU regulation as a Member State is obliged to apply as well as domestic laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35911	I'd like to thank my colleagues for 42 seconds. Thank you very much for this replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35912	Mr. Vice President. My colleague Glasovac, there's a minister behind you, a former minister of justice, so let him tell you how many doubts, and the finance minister is sitting next to him, how many doubts were there when we passed the Consumer Credit Act in the House? How many threats there were that, how this Constitutional Court would bring us down, how anti-constitutional the law, how strong the banks were and how it wouldn't go. Well, you see, HDZ followed you into that, and we voted for it. When we realized that there was, that the government had a legitimate goal, which is to protect citizens who, by raising credit in Swiss, were played and we didn't then, like you now, deal with small things, whether it was one way or another, but we were behind it. And then you told us that we didn't mean it, but that it was part of the pre-election strategy of the HDZ because the law was passed in 2015, and you didn't have the pre-election law when we immediately disbanded the Parliament. Therefore, when we realize that something is in the interest of Croatian citizens we are not petty, we have supported your law because we think you were right. So don't be petty about supporting our law because it takes care of 150,000 Croatian employees, takes care of the financial system of the state, takes care of the Croatian economy, and here be as big as we were when we followed you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35913	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply to the replica. The next call came from a esteemed colleague named Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic, to return to what you told me, that I read article 40. What you're talking about is not in paragraph 2. In paragraph 2, the payment to related companies is, therefore, within the concert. What you're talking about and what we're talking about is in paragraph 1. But I also read article 39 and article 41, don’t doubt that. And that's why I have to ask you something. You said you'd support this law because it's up, so now I'm asking you a few questions. Tell me whether it is constitutional that a worker who, after the application of this law, will, for example, work on the harvesting of olives in Istria as part of Agro lagoon falls, is injured and cannot claim the damage that has caused him, and that is the protection of workers' rights from working relationship as long as the procedure takes place. Tell me whether it is in accordance with the Constitution that, for example, the employee of Konzum in Korčula, and also in Korčula if I am not mistaken, there is a branch office of Konzum will not be able to force its salary from a working relationship, its receipts for 15 months as long as this law is applied. Tell my colleague Bačić and now we are talking specifically about Article 40(1) of the Constitution whether it is in accordance with the Constitution that the Commissioner for the approval of the Sanhedrin Council, therefore the banks themselves, decides that he needs Franck for further business, and Kras is not. Dear fellow Members, is it in accordance with the Constitution that the Tax Administration will not have the right to carry out administrative proceedings from the moment of application of this law, and administrative procedures are tax determination procedures and to charge taxes from Agrokor. Tell me, dear colleague Bacic, is all this in accordance with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35915	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino, for her replication. Answer, esteemed colleague Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35916	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad you confirmed that I was right. As far as the metrics are concerned, the fact that I quoted the first article instead of Article 40, here's what I'm accepting is that it's a mistake, and then you're just as right as it is. I know that you come from Istria and you start reading olives in Istria just before we start in southern Croatia, maybe a month. But you know that it's not an olive harvest yet, so it won't fall off the ladder like you said while he's picking olives. I'm just kidding. In any case, such procedures concerning the insurance of employees due to injuries at work and for any other reason are provided for by this law are clearly not to be dealt with immediately, but in any case the law will allow that part to be resolved. But what's important here to say the law doesn't go, I've already replicated it once, it doesn't go to the heart of small suppliers because the elected commissioner has a chance to pay off the individual believer because it has to be approved by the Sanhedrin Council. Therefore, the whole system takes care of how employees are concerned, so it also takes care of those small suppliers for whom the impression is made in Croatia that this law does not apply to them. I've explained it seems to me before well how this law takes care of them right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35917	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleague Bacic. I've been thinking about whether to pick up the line or not. We've been talking all day about the essence, the metrics, and that's really good. However, we did not mention the form once, so you encouraged me when you said this law was in line with EU directives. And you and I know very well that this law has not passed a public debate, that this law has not even passed what is common consultation with other ministries. We know that this law does not have the same statement that, in accordance with EU legislation, the transitional provision in Article 49 states that the law, two years from the entry into force of this law, will carry out an ex post assessment of the effects of this law. So I understand that there was no public debate, I understand even this provision where it decided to wait two years. But I don't understand why co-ordination with other ministries has not passed, and I don't understand why there is no statement of consent with EU legislation. Since you are what I greatly appreciate really in all the synergy I have had the opportunity to listen to you, you have strongly insisted that these things be. I'm very interested in why there isn't, whether there's going to be a problem afterwards. I understand that the problem is time, but it was possible to do so, so I'm talking internally with other ministries for reasons that it would be much simpler then and that some other ministries have the opportunity to say something. And I'll wait for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Economy to explain why the problems have arisen, so I'll wait because I'm interested in your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35919	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark Taritate, on the line. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak Taritash, you know, we have been following each other for a long time, I have often resented that you have also passed laws that have not been quite finished or have been shortened and debates with the public interest or that the laws have been under emergency procedures, although the very essence of this law did not require urgent procedures. I agree with you that this law has been done by people, experts at the Ministry of Economy and that practically the law has been passed without that procedure in government either, and I say here in the Parliament, should then be read first and second reading. But if there's ever a problem, it seems to me since I've been demanding urgency in this House, then in any case, this law and I think that the company and the employees of Agrokor especially all these related companies that are being blocked today, it's much more important that this law be passed and in such an urgent, short-term, fast-track procedure than that we've respected all these provisions that you rightly object to that we've been in public debate for 30 days with an interested public, that we went into intergovernmental coordination, that we went to the regular procedure of this law, I think only then would you be right, and what you're not now is that the government is late. The government is not late, the government with this law right now wants to speed up events in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35921	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35922	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, you mentioned several times in your presentation that the aim of this law is to stabilise the financial system, stabilise the economy and practically save 150 thousand jobs, 50 thousand in Agrokor, correct me if I'm wrong and 100 thousand in companies that deal with Agrokor out of concert, aproximatically. You also cited that which is an alternative to this law. Well, we've suggested an alternative several times, so all of my colleagues here have mentioned more or less what the alternative is. But what I'm interested in, what are the consequences of this law, or ok. You will vote him tomorrow, what will happen if that law is applied and the matter fails? Don't just answer me, then the company will go bankrupt. Yes, the company will go bankrupt, but what will happen to small suppliers, which will be with pensions in the Republic of Croatia, which will be with salaries in state and public services. This law is much more than Agrokor himself, much, much more. With this bill that you're making now overnight you compare it to our pre-determined settlements that were made in normal procedures that weren't good, we've corrected them yes, it's true, but they've been passed in normal procedures. So, this law decides practically on the fate of the Croatian economy, I don't know if it's clear to you, but it's perfectly clear to me. And we're going to have a hell of a problem if we apply it because we don't know what the consequences are, and it doesn't work. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35923	I thank my esteemed colleague Frank Vidovic for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35924	Kola Vidovic, precisely for this reason that you mentioned, which you stated about the importance of the company on the number of employees, about the number of employees in the related companies about all those suppliers living with this company, has become in a certain way extremely important and only what the Government could do to establish a legislative and institutional framework to prevent what you are asking me to happen if the law does not have success in its implementation. First I'll say it again, it would be best if the law didn't go through with it, then it would be the best thing for the company to do it, but the company already has a few months to deal with it without this law. It is high time to establish this institutional framework, to establish this legislative framework, to enter into that procedure to avoid, in my opinion, a worse version of the company or a concert if we are already talking about this company. So this framework is being done to avoid what we at HDZ think is worse, that it's worse. I've told you 73 pre-departure deals on 10 different trade courts across the region, we're afraid it would work out quickly, and that could be resolved at all, that's what we're afraid of. So you know when only one small company goes to a pre-determined settlement that's the problem. I come down from Dubrovnik-Neretva County where one of the most important agricultural cooperatives in Peljesac went into a pre-war settlement and not to tell you what happened, the company is almost gone, the cooperatives will get 20% in 60% of the discount from their grapes they gave and that's what Dingac gave, so I'm afraid of pre-warrant deals and I think this is a much better quality way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35925	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35926	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić, I'm going to start this replica a little unusually, there's Minister Dalic, I see that in her ministry all State Secretarys think... the deputy are all in a row of economists, it might be good if there was an engineer of the technical profession there. Why do I say that? You see, when I talk about Agroduhan Slatina's pre-fashion deals, he was in debt to the HPB. Both are owned by the state. When the agreement was to be agreed, it was very difficult. There stopped economic relations, political returns came, and before a bankruptcy deal was actually a political decision. The entire privatisation that was in the Republic of Croatia is not an economic process, it was a purely political process. And if we add to that corruption, nepotism, clientism, we come to today's situation and the problems we are discussing today. And it seems to me that today we're going to throw money here. I listened well to the Prime Minister this morning. And I'm curious now if you can answer this question, will this law help bring fresh money to Agrokoc? Because it's the only way Agrokor can recover and save jobs and eventually, and suppliers get their claims, everything else is a story. These remarks, I'm not a lawyer, these remarks about whether this law is better or a pre-determined settlement or changing the bankruptcy law then the grandmother with cookies has passed, then it's over, if that happens. You know, there's one story about one, one construction company that went bankrupt, so the oldest employee wrote, they all wrote that mixer, that one will do this, and the oldest worker wrote that... you know, that's the one meter away and I'm not gonna finish that story.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35927	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sagaru, for his reply to the replica and to my esteemed colleague Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sagar, you asked me if this law would allow fresh company money. This law will first, if Agrokor enters it, allow for the procedure of appointing... a administration made by an extraordinary commissioner who will appoint a court and a religious council, an advisory council. They will close with the wall of Agrokor and the claims of the religious, supplier even though they are... Believers and suppliers, every time I point out that until that day they are frozen, which means that the company does not have to pay commitments from earlier periods before entering the system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then I let the bank, some financial institution, give the company fresh money, and then they wouldn't do it without this law because this law allows the new one that came into the company to have that... or that if the company ends up in bankruptcy and then he won't return the money he has priority, that money fresh has priority and it gives security to some financial institution if... Trust him to give him money so that she can continue to do business, that mine can unblock a large number of dependent societies of 73 that are currently in a blockade and continue to function. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the purpose of this law. Have... management, extraordinary management, enable new money, run cycle, production cycle of all its suppliers of goods and services, specifically listed them and a little start to work and make a deal and restructure the firm. And that's the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35929	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next one came from a respected counterpart, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35930	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you had a very good discussion on behalf of the club, clearly tried to show the difference between this law and you compared it to the law on pre-sensitive settlements. I talked about it today, too. And I was saying what was acceptable to the SDP when they brought it in. And we agreed because we felt that we should have a tool and an instrument to start solving the problems of liquidity, non-payment, non-compliance with payment deadlines, etc. That's how it was. By their law, we know who was sitting at the table, the public notary, the Ministry of Finance, the FINA, the debtor, the believer. And that was enough and everyone agreed. Imagine perfection, a position that has a SDP that estimates five years in advance how many people are going to lose their jobs, how many unpaid debts, how many are going to be written off, how many companies are going to enter into a pre-determined settlement in the first place. They knew nothing but how much the current debt at the time was unpaid claims nothing. And we gave our hand because we felt that the procedure was to be followed. And we now have a similar program, through which we're running a story today. The SDP is in positions that Agrokor is ready for bankruptcy and that through pre-demand and bankruptcy should solve its problems. But the consum works, the press is open, gentlemen, workers come to the factory, they have cash flows. What do we want? We want to be prepared for what you've already declared today, but no one has the courage to say it there. Because you know it's not like that? And let us not allow the position of management to take care of her work for which she is in charge. Well, they brought in someone to make fun of here. Okay, but we've been listening, they're done. And the transfer of responsibility, that's the classic political story. Here's Linice's statement, Milanovic's government is beginning to allow a delay in paying large ones. When was that? Is that the most important thing today? I think it's much more important today, can we today in consensus or unanimously get this law and send some kind of message from this assembly about how we look at the current moment in our country when we're talking about economics or are we ready for small political breakthroughs that we should be saving who in the election tomorrow? No one, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35931	I thank my colleague, Boric. Minus 26, let us record, for the future, the reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35932	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Boric, the arrival of Mr. Antonio Alvarez in the company is certainly the company owner's decision but I am convinced of two more reasons. The first reason is that the banks must have been looking for it, and the second reason is that they will certainly be satisfied with other believers besides the banks. I don't know if it's signed... The arrangement, I'm not sure because there have been different connotations about its signing but what I'm sure is that the government's suggestion that the law is working, the reference to the law in the parliamentary procedure has significantly accelerated its arrival and the attempt of the government before the law comes into force or in any other way does not come into the shears of this law rather than solve it itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if it happens that the company together with its creditors solves the accumulated problems itself in this company, then this law must have contributed to them making it a lot more than it would have happened if this law hadn't happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35933	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for this answer. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Bozo Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35934	Thank you. I support my colleague, Bacic, absolutely your argument in favour of this law, but to one who was not sufficiently reasoned by Prime Minister and Minister Dalic this morning, no arguments are clearly helpful. And instead of this law being called lex Agrokor, lex Todorovic I would ask that we treat it as a law of national unity before. Because the problem we are facing has a dimension, that is, the threat of both economic and social conditions in the country, but also the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia on which I am particularly sensitive as a representative of Croats outside Croatia because only strong Croatia and respected in the world can help Croats outside of Croatia, as well as Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This isn't about one company, not even 73 companies from Agrokor. It's about 6,000 suppliers and multiple of their partners, so it's hundreds of thousands of existences, just as many contributions, taxes, etc. which could, for which this state could be denied if this company experienced a complete fall. But let me, therefore, in the context of what I said earlier in the context of Croats outside of Croatia from BiH to express my dissatisfaction, including the fact that the leader of the opposition in the context of this debate had the need to accuse the Croatian political leadership in BiH of an unequal position of Croats in BiH, and forgetting that the deconstitution of Croats in BiH has actually taken place during the SDP authorities since 2001, 2002 and during the chairmanship of the SDP-backed Pantovac. And finally, this problem will come into the hands of this government anyway, and better so that this country then appoints experts, including experts from Herzegovina, instead of calling them Antonio Alvarez, the second one who named Mrs. Marija Simovic from the village of Zvirovići between the village of Citluk and Ljubuski as one of the experts. So it better be the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35935	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bozi Ljubic, for this replica. Answer, dear colleague Branko Bačić, come in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35936	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Ljubic, of course, is the influence of this company and beyond the border of the Republic of Croatia. I think about fifteen thousand employees outside of Croatia are in the same system, and this is a very large number of 15000 employees, so that another country should also make sure that this project succeeds because it will certainly preserve jobs in its related societies. In fact, the collapse of such large companies collapses then and/or change or restructures in any other way, they may go into bankruptcy and those companies that are not in the Republic of Croatia and are business related to this company. And I agree with you, you are absolutely right, that opposition in fact to the law because the government will nominate, or unnamed. Far from that, the court will appoint, rather than because the Government will propose persons who, as an extraordinary commissioner, need to do the job in a certain way, show mistrust to the government. But on the other hand, let's just say there's no problem believing it if one judge did. So I respect the Croatian judiciary very much, and I hope and believe that it is impartial, that it is impartial. But in the beginning to question the extraordinary commissioner the government wants to appoint, while on the other hand, it gives Bianca support to one judge I wonder if Croatian citizens would like to see Andrej Plenkovic, the entire government, stand behind that person, and then, if you want the Croatian Parliament or to stand, I highly appreciate Mr. Justice Minister one judge. Let's put it on the scale, and then here's the deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35937	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Bacic, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Željko Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35938	Dear Vice President, here's the whole day we've been discussing a law which unfortunately, in my opinion, is being passed too quickly and on our noses and my colleague Bacic has been trying to convince us that we should come to some consensus, that this is a very good law. But I ask you in what way to reach consensus and pass this law when none of us here and believe in the government knows how deep that well of Agrokor is, which there is, which we can expect, which will pop out of it, how it will all end. Looking at Mr. Antonio Alvarez's statement, you saw that he was terribly cautious and that unfortunately, he too is sure to find everything here. We see that every day they come out with no cover, false reports. I don't know what we can expect here, and I don't know how to support a law like this that should have been done long ago when a 200-rich family project was being done, when Agrokor was created, when opportunities were given to Mr. Todorovic and the Todoric family to create such an empire that was beyond the possibilities and this country to cover it in these situations that happened. I think we should figure out where the money went from that Agrocora because those are the billions that ended up somewhere, they didn't just disappear through bad business. I am sorry that there is no Minister of Finance here today who is certainly necessary for this debate and should be present here because the Croatian financial system is really at risk if this is very, very bad. But put yourself in the skin of Agrokor suppliers who worked under difficult conditions and when Agrokor paid for 180 days, he set a variety of difficult conditions for them, which they will now do when they can't ask for their money for 15 months, and Agrokor was the biggest buyer and most of it were offered by Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35939	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Lenarta. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Lenart, your president, went to see a lot of interest in this debate as a parliamentary representative, handed over to the government and to the parliamentary majority that we would be involved in the work of private companies, and now you are calling me, not calling but asking yourself, where and where more cultural you speak and I do not force you to ask us and ask yourself what is the situation there. You're asking the government to tell you what it looks like, how deep the dubious they are, but if the government wanted to find out in a certain way that it could then... react then we're slowing down because that's a violation of the Constitution, you understand. Either we're going to assign the government in a certain way to at least have valid full information through that commissioner or we're going to stay away. This is what this wants to do to be done through an extraordinary commissioner who is ultimately and under the law obliged to inform the Government what he has found, when he, within a very short time period of time, imposes on him all debts, all claims, when he determines what obligations are towards financial institutions, then he will only be able to move towards realisation, that is the second phase, that is, the fundamental stage, and that is a settlement that will enable restructuring. But in order for us to be able to talk about it here, we need to know what that condition is. We'll find out the moment we're under the law, we'll be informed by the commissioner of what he found there. And in order for him to get there, we must adopt this law in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35941	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Predrag Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35942	Thank you very much, Vice President. So today, we've been fighting all day, we're exaggerating, and we're trying to transfer blame to each other who's guilty of something that's been skating in this country for 30 years, and no one has dared react. So another day of wild debate between us who have respectable salaries for Croatian opportunities, but no one asked those who should have solved this problem or who should have led to it not being at all, and these are the managers so-called. Managers with millions of salaries and even bigger bonuses. I want to say that here today the prime minister was talking about variants A and B. I'm telling you people about variant C that is most obvious, which is that the matter is over and the story is over. Here the first colleague Lenart has actually come to track this whole story, who we are, we are politicians except possibly Professor Lovrinović, Greece, I don't know who else can talk about these things metrically. So I'm going back to this, we're politicians and we should start to deal with and think and variants C, so this is all being recorded today, so look at the video in a few months and you'll see who was in the first one, I wish I hadn't, but I'm sure I am, and I'm probably the first one to say that the Emperor is naked. So you should be dealing with why we're here and getting paid, and that's the problem that's going to meet us very quickly, and that's the workers, the small suppliers, the O.P.G. who's going to be on the road. And as that song really says, the rich take care of themselves, but we have to take care of these other people. And that's why for the end, Mr. Bacic, I respect you too much, and I'd ask you to look me in the eye and say if you really believe that law, but for these reasons, I'm not going to ask you that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35943	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Predrag Matic. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Matic, yes, we have talked a lot today about this law and what I think is our duty not as an expert, because we are not as you said it ourselves, but as a politician to guard against difficult words. And it would be better if another politician at the beginning of this affair kept a heavy word because when a politician gives one grade and a very difficult grade, that system I think is slowly starting to collapse especially when someone says that someone has some knowledge. So I think it's good that we here in the Parliament, too, although we're not at such a high level, we announce bankruptcy, and that's not good because I'm afraid of that bankruptcy. And that's why I believe that this law is trying to remove this bankruptcy from this variant of delete, and if it's still trying for me there's still time, there's a company of very capable people, very smart people, it wouldn't have come to where it is if there was no good management and all that was. I believe that this company, because what we didn't mention, is left in the management companies in both Jamnica and others and in Ledo and in Tisca... but that doesn't mean that this company, the connected company in that system, that administration, or this administration that we're going to do if it comes to it that this administration they're going to find in some connected society and leave behind. Therefore, I believe that this law must be passed and I hope that this solution, variants, I don't know what you said, C, letter C won't come.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35945	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply to the replica. The next one came from a respected counterpart, Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35946	Dear counterpart Bačić, you have through your debate and now we see through the replicas you have made a huge effort to make this other side, let us call it so, to convince the position to get involved in the debate about this law, which is absolutely unnecessary, without success. Since the very beginning of this debate, after calling on the prime minister to speak about this law, the opposition has made it clear that it is not interested in the law at all. The difference between the bankruptcy law that the government was talking about all along and its adoption, when we were the opposition and we were sitting together, is simply that the government then proposed the law. We have been through the amendments all the time, through a constructive discussion we have influenced his final appearance and thus ultimately supported him and he is as such brought. That's not the case here today. Taking responsibility means making decisions and proposing solutions. And at this point, the government of the Republic of Croatia, the prime minister, here is the minister of justice, there is the secretary of state, they did it right. They proposed the law, made a decision and gave it to us here for adoption. I haven't heard a single amendment today, not a single proposal on that bill that was proposed here. We hear about Todorovic, we hear about Agrokor. I am interested in only one thing at the moment, as I am convinced of both you and all of us here that will be with the employees of the company, with 70 thousand people, their families who each of them have their own name and family and who we must give them the chance not to happen to them without their incomes, to lose their salaries, to bring down that part of our Croatian economy. And at this point, the only concrete solution we have, the only real solution that the government has given us is this law, and I think we need to support it and give it exactly a chance if it comes to its application and we warmly hope that we won't be forced to use it to make it possible for this company, these... 12+3 months, to build that wall, to provide them with funds to supply suppliers, which will provide salaries for employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I don't see any reason why the opposition would be against it right now, but they will.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35947	I thank my distinguished colleague, Tomislav Klaric, for this extended replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35948	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Klaric, I'm signing everything you said, here's everything you said. I believe that what my colleague Matic had just replicated to me was asking me if I believed in this law. I believe they believe this is a good way. I believe they believe this is a good way. Among other things, there was a dilemma three or four days ago after the government whether or not we would discuss this law on Saturday. And in that weigh whether a Saturday or a regular session of the parliament starting on Wednesdays was decided to still go on Wednesdays. Why? Because we think it's a really good law and that in three, four days' time, it's going to be as long as it's possible for the MPs to take a good look at it, to read it, to get to know it, to see that this is the only way. I don't see it the second time, I'm not even much of an expert, so every time I fence myself from it, if this was the only time, to get worse, harder version. And I'm not going to say between two evils, but it seems to me that between what's good and something that hasn't proved to be good so far. No one can convince me, I don't know with debt, I don't know any respect for any exceptions in Croatia that some important extracurricular settlements have worked out. And there was that, I can't say it wasn't, there were companies that did it, but mostly they didn't. And I wouldn't want this company to be one of those on which we're going to prove that we didn't make it with an extra-curricular deal. That's why this law goes my way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35949	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35950	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, so I see that we have not accurately established that the government has not precisely established the goal of achieving this law because, except that the government has been involved, what it will do, where, which includes, there are many unknowns and it is about right that tomorrow, when it votes out, then we go to pay for one mass and we pray that all together God that this law will never be applied, that the problem should be solved without us. After all, Zdravko Pevec can file a constitutional suit because one concert failed, fell with his paw, took all his property, checked all of it together, so he can set up because he was treated in another way and he was a large number of employees and a large number of suppliers and everything else. Therefore, we have serious problems here, and I really think it would be better if the problem were solved at the level of the administration. Further legislation is exterior, to which extent it applies to Slovenia, BiH, Serbia. He crosses the borders of this country in his action. Is that possible or not a question again? The third question is, will Windia, Crash, Frank go to the bank with this law and get a loan for his business because they desperately need at least 20% of their claims to continue production normally. Who's gonna give them the money? Okay, here we said that the network gets some money, and I don't know who's gonna give money under this law. And I would end up with something, at the time of ancient China, Confucius, at the time of Confucius, it was the merchants who made money on other people's work, the lowest-ranked citizens and ancient China.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35951	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Silvan Hrelja, for the replica. Answer, esteemed colleague Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35952	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrelj, the government will not conduct the procedure, it won't. The procedure will be conducted by an extraordinary administration, and the extraordinary administration is not the government. The extraordinary administration is an extraordinary commissioner appointed by the court on a proposal from the government. But decisions continue to be made by the Sanhedrin Council and has an advisory body. So it's an extraordinary administration. We keep mixing and we want to say that the extraordinary commissioner is the person who manages it all together. He's only one of those who participates in this procedure, in this procedure, and let's not confuse it. The government here, after proposing more to him, is now in business and has a huge responsibility to carry out what they expect him to do in the front row, so if you want the owner, without telling the employees, I don't speak to suppliers. You're saying the law is ex-terrestrial. You're wrong. How could you be wrong? If by any chance the owner of the concert had sold everything to me on his behalf, I would now be performing in those countries that are not the Republic of Croatia. Now an extraordinary commissioner will appear on his behalf, and the basis of the Trade Society Act. Therefore, everything will remain under the law in that country only that the owner of that company's daughter is no longer in another country, but now all the powers of the owner of the competition are now in legal traffic, in all cases, the commissioner. And everything will remain there in that country according to their laws and sales and reporting and all that is necessary, but if this country or if this system, not the state, but the system decides to go into restructuring and how the owner wants no one else. And private property must be respected there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35953	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. And the last replica of this debate, dear colleague Stjepan Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35954	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bačić, I believe that you have studied this law, so I would ask you to answer how these laws protect suppliers and other creditors if the provision of Article 41(1) determines that since the opening of the extraordinary administration procedure, litigation of litigative, executive and other proceedings is not allowed, and the question arises how Agrokor will make new deals or maintain business where no one will want to enter into a business relationship with the same, because in the event of failure to comply with the obligations by Agrokor, the believer will not be able to settle himself by coerce, i.e. a court or out of court procedure of collection. In view of the situation and debts towards suppliers, they are attempting to initiate the forced collection process and break business relations because of the inability to collect, and you expect Agrokor to close new deals with the current rating and on condition, i.e. the legal prohibition of forced collection, i.e. the possibility of any charges in case of failure of revitalisation. I would ask you to answer that and I can only conclude that I am sorry that you did not pass such laws when many other companies were privatized, destroyed like MTC, Međimurje concrete, Modexa and other large companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35955	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Kovac, for the replica. Answer, esteemed colleague Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35956	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kovac, you're asking me how this law will protect suppliers? And did you wonder how they're protected now? Do you know how many are in the blockade? Do you know that? What? ... That's why we're passing the law so they can be unblocked. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] This is the purpose of enabling fresh money to be unblocked and going in this direction to secure money so that the company can pay its suppliers, so that they can pay their obligations and start operating normally. And that's the purpose of the law. I have nothing else to say to you. In fact, that's what it says in these provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35957	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Bačić. With this, we've exhausted the replicas from this exhibit. I hope that after these twenty constructive replicas and the answer that colleagues and colleagues will find themselves in these answers and in these questions, some will also give up their individual debates. We continue to debate on behalf of the club... Here you go, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35958	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Live Wall Club to point out suspicious coincidences related to Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. ... Why can't I do it for any reason? [[You can't hear it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35959	Are you done? Thank you. Please, colleagues and colleagues, don't get into any arguments. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. Thank you very much. It's 18:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.37 HOURS]] On behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives, Stanko was requested by a respected colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go. I'd like to ask you to allow an esteemed colleague, Pernar, to take a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35961	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of our club, I would like to point out that Minister Maric unfortunately does not do his job at all at the moment, and when he should have done it in our opinion he did not do it consciously. It's more details. Although he knew by his own recognition he was referred to the situation in Agrokor, surely more than the media because he was inside, he knew what was going on, he allowed himself to give on behalf of the HBOR credit to Agrokor, although he knew there would be a breakdown. However, the thing goes on, he naturally claims I didn't know anything, but there is another coincidence, we when we talk about long suppliers all the time talking about the September debt. Why do we mention the entire time of September last year, or those famous 16 billion that are already said to be 17 and perhaps more? Because Minister Maric amended another provision legally, except for amending the factoring law to avoid company factoring, which would determine who was the largest consumer of the factoring, which he did, in socialism, legal entities had to submit a final financial report last year on February 28th. The deadline for submission of the final financial report is 31 March for the previous year. This would mean that on 31 March we know the total operations of Agrokor for 2016. But what did Minister Maric do? He amended the Accounting Act in a way that the final financial report in Croatia must only be submitted to legal persons on 30 April. What kind of game, ladies and gentlemen? So we've been talking about the situation since September last year just because Minister Maric changed the Accounting Act and we'll only find out on April 30th what the final account of Agrokor was for the past year. Since he went to change the factoring law, and it is clear that Agrokor was actually credited through factoring and since he was changing the Accounting Act, so we still don't know Saldo Agrokorov from the end of last year and since he allowed him to issue a loan that he couldn't be issued because the financial situation was a disaster, there's no way to collect, we feel that Minister Maric should back off, which is more than just missing what he did, but that he was doing what he shouldn't have done, and at the end of this crisis he's not even doing anything at all, he just says as I'm being excused, and all of Croatia is discussing, he who's the finance minister here today is not. I would also like to say that this law lex Agrokor will ruin suppliers because suppliers, suppliers, have been charged through Agrokor's bond of factoring companies, and if this law goes into effect more this factoring house will no longer be charged by the force of Agrokor but will aggressively seek back from the money supplier. In other words, today Zvece's chocolate factory, among other things, went into a blockade. And what's going on? They're in a blockade, they can't get out of the blockade, and if the account of Agrokora, or those companies they've been dealing with, is there any way to protect them from any possible collection of how Zvecevo will settle himself? The exercise of Agrokor cannot be carried out either by them or by a factoring society to which Agrokor's debt has been sold. And this law saves up to a year's worth of Agrokor concerts, or up to 15 months' worth, but it ruins two thousand suppliers, as I mentioned in Zvecev's example. And in the end, what happens, even when the 15 months pass? We'll meet again in a situation where there will be 62 billion kunas of one-off debt on Agrokor and it will be a flood. So far, those who can manage that debt, when all loans are suddenly cancelled over 15 months, Agrokor will no longer have a chance to borrow, all commitments will suddenly collapse to payment and a total collapse will follow from which there is no more exit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35962	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, for the reason of the break. We're moving on to further discussions. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, a respected colleague, Professor Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35963	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Allow me in this brief address to state the position of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB in relation to this law. Respecting the fact that we are not experts in this matter or not at least to the extent that we can give lectures to others, we have tried to read all of this in the law and that the part that we fully understand is to make our views known in that part. However, first of all, I have to say that the situation in the Croatian economy is generally very turbulent in our opinion, not to say problematicly, and that now something has happened that experts could have expected and what experts say again to the foundations of the Croatian state and the Croatian economy. We used to listen here today mostly to who's to blame. I don't want to talk about who's guilty and I want to start by assuming that everyone who spoke here today has noble intentions, although it is to read from some of the statements that there have been more tendencies that are political or if you want political nature and that would be acceptable if I hadn't said these two sentences before, three, that it is about, that the shaken foundations of Croatian economic sovereignty are and that all this is going on threatens with unspeakable consequences. What happened in Agrokor can't claim to know what the reason is. Is it ignorance? Maybe that too. Is it a non-functional institution? I don't know. Maybe that's it. However, I am concerned at this point, or at the club we are thinking about whether it is a legislative framework, whether we are all responsible, or whether it is a concept mistake. When I say a conceptual mistake, is it possible now that this law or some other law, the consequences of all this are resolved but that given the state of the country and the legislation that is the way it is, it is repeated with another company, with another company. When we talk about a concept mistake, then I primarily think that since Aristotle's time in ancient Greece, philosophers have been dealing with the relationship of individuals and states, or markets and states, and that this has remained a central problem in many economies of the world and today especially in the western and we have an incredible situation that for certain economic concepts they have received people, some experts in the Nobel Prize for Economy for that year, so in 3.4 years, some others who had completely opposite attitudes. There's a question of what it's coming from. Is this coming out of unison thinking at one time, in one trend when we all accept that it's the only possible solution and then everyone acts the way it suits them? Today, I'm an expert in this area, Professor. Lovrinović, told, told the story, not only the story, but the possibility of preventing such situations in the future, on the example of the motor general who seemed pretty convincing to me. But that's the way to the time that comes behind us. Who comes after all this. The concern of the opposition for small entrepreneurs is, in my opinion, entirely justified and shared their concerns. However, in these objectives, it writes in one place, given that the state is obliged to ensure the economic stability and sustainability of public finances and to promote economic progress and the social well-being of citizens and the economic development of all areas, the above objectives are fully legitimate. In achieving a stable and sustainable economic system and public finances system, as well as ensuring sustainable economic work and now protection of entrepreneurs, in particular micro, small and medium-sized and craftsmen and agricultural producers as suppliers of goods and services. If that's what the government has declared in law as a goal, then I wonder how to do it. As it is wrong to believe nothing is wrong and to believe everything. But at this point I don't see any better variations than to support this law, that's our club's position with all the reserves we have in view of the overall situation, the overall mentality that leads us through understanding economic relations, the different attitudes and the primal urgency of the situation in which we are. And that's why we're gonna support this law. But what has opened up the additional problem today is the huge mistrust that is evident in this House, so we often wonder whose Parliament this is. Is this the Parliament of the majority who is currently in power or is the Parliament of all of us? And how much we, with these divisions in this House, are acting on the division of the public when it comes to this law. I'm just going to tell you a story about an Indonesian big bank that built a big vault outside the bank entrance. At one point, it started to rain, and a large number of people on the street came and stopped under that roof. That's when the Indonesians saw it, they started gathering around these banks, and the banks and their exposures because they thought the bank was in trouble. They went to raise their money. The bank really got in trouble. If we don't trust each other here that we have good intentions when there's no Orsat Miljanic here talking about his fears I accept that he, that he has real fears. That's why today's prime minister's line is going together to send a message that we're behind this primarily has a message of mutuality and trust. To a small people like us, there is no future for the few people in whom divisions are created. We will constantly be against each other and the people who look at us don't know who was talking, I think Bacic was saying a fellow power word is invisible, the power of words is such that it has a more destructive effect than even the law. For this reason, dear friends, I ask you whether you support this or not, let us try to keep the words that share first of all us. Let's try talking to each other, even if this is the position of the person who's talking to you, don't insult each other. When we insult each other, we insult ourselves. We can have different attitudes, and it's good to have them. If there's 100 people in one room and all 100 think the same thing, 99 is too high. But let's not be offended. Let us try to understand that we are a Parliament in the Croatian state and that our goals are the same. Let's scratch the best. I am convinced that at that moment we will be in a situation that someone from the opposition will accept explanations of position, and those from the position that they will eventually accept solutions from the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35964	I thank my esteemed colleague Professor Goran Dodig for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first person to call for a replica came forward by an esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35965	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to ask my esteemed colleague Dodig how he thinks this law will help suppliers if all the goods they have already delivered that Agrokor has not paid and all the ones he will deliver in the future until the entry into force of this new law will not be forced to be charged. We will have a situation that the debt to suppliers will only grow and even 15 months of Agrokor fine-tuning obligations, after 15 months we are again in a situation that these obligations cannot be settled. So, bankruptcy is inevitable. And what I said. You now have that debt coming a little bit at a time. In the situation that we're talking about in this law, we're going to have a situation where suddenly all the loans and all the debts to suppliers are going to go down to Agrokor. And my question for you is this. When those, say, 15 months pass, what then? Will you then say ah time for bankruptcy, no more sense to defend it or then you will make a new law lex Agrokor version 2.0 or 1.1 where you will say that if the government evaluates to extend that deadline by another 15 months. So I'm curious whether you're going to extend it indefinitely, or whether you think this is the top of the 15 months, the maximum of this kind of situation on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35966	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his replica. The answer to your esteemed colleague, Dodig, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35967	My colleague Pernar, if I knew the answer to those questions, they'd probably have hired me, not this Mr. Alvarez the third, or whatever his name is. So, the answer to those questions, I don't think anyone knows them. But I told you like it's wrong to believe in everything, so it's wrong and doubting everything. I hope that if you, you'll soon see if it's going in the wrong direction or the right direction. Why can't we change that? That could change. So here I am standing in those positions. I'm not saying it'll be good, but at this point I don't see a better solution. I don't see him. And if I'm going to assume everything's going to be bad in advance, then we better go home. I'm an optimist.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35968	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dodig, for his reply. The next call came through, dear colleague Miro Kovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35969	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have listened carefully to the presentation of my colleagues, Dodig, and I really agree with the fact that we must be serious at this moment in this Croatian Parliament. I really mind that awareness in the Croatian public, in the media, we admire Alvarez III, Suarez II, that's ridiculous. We are the ones in Croatia who have to solve our Croatian problems, so we must think. And not some wizard came and praised him for communicating well with the public, and we stayed as stupid and bad at communicating with the Croatian public, it only knows Alvarez III or Suarez II, that's funny. Of course, because the state must intervene and that we must be prepared to have a mechanism to protect business sustainability with such importance as can pose a systemic risk to the Croatian economy. Of course, how do the Germans do it? When problems with banks started, they are now available in three years, 800 billion euros for their banks. You know what their budget is? 300 billion euros at federal level means triple almost to protect their banks. Hamburg, Beeersdorf 13 years ago wants to join an American company in Beersdorf, what's Hamburg doing? He's going into possession. He becomes a shareholder of his company to prevent the takeover, that's consciousness. We are the ones who... Croatian problems. Now there's a chance Alvarez III and maybe Suarez II, but I'm not happy about it, I'm like a Croat because I'm embarrassed that we're in this situation. We're not hitting mud because of who's to blame. The Croatian political elites are guilty, that is, and our chance is our responsibility to change it through the mechanism of prevention and intervention, it is our responsibility,... our consciousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35970	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Kovac, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35971	I need a response here. I totally understand a fellow blacksmith when he says he's embarrassed. We should all be ashamed of the fact that regardless of the reference of the house that Alvarez III comes from, and I have no doubt about the knowledge and competences of this man, it would be very rude of me to express any doubts, but I also understand that we could handle it ourselves. But I asked myself a question, why did it happen? You know why it happened that I'm interpreting it, precisely because of this mistrust in myself. Because the fact is that we keep thinking that someone else is going to solve something for us and that someone else is going to do something better for us all the time. In this situation, even as unacceptable as it may seem to me, this move seems wise, and it seems to me that this move, as the Agrokor case will bring a review of the concept of this putting so much on one map, and the fact that we realize after Alvarez III, that we ourselves have to solve what we did wrong. But at this point, Miro, I think it's a psychologically good move because I have more and more confidence in others than myself, but it's going to come a time very soon that we're going to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35972	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dodig, for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35973	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Dodig, you mentioned conceptal errors earlier, I fully agree with you that they are conceptual errors but it is not only the error of the Agrokora concept, the error of the general Croatian state is in the mass of the segments we have solved. Why did Agrokor come to this problem? Well, I guess he had bigger demands than opportunity. Is it possible that in 2014, Agrokor, it is possible that it was done, bought Mercator for 540 million euros, did it not then see how the company stands, how much it has the opportunity to enter such a large project? Probably if the real experts were watching that, they wouldn't let Agrokor do it, and he'd probably be in a better position today. So I wonder where the security services are following the situation on the market that they haven't warned anyone or even the government to see what's going on. However, we report when it's all over, when the problem simply comes. I'm a businessman myself, so you can't invest something you don't have, and we know in particular, and we hear Agrokor was taking 10% credits. Normally, any normal person who has any understanding of the economy and the economic movement will realize that this is impossible and must fail, when other companies receive 0.1 or 1%. So please, when are we going to learn the rule once that some things we can't do what other people can do? I was in Zadar the other day, so people in our military base don't have a kitchen, and there's 300 of them. Well, I as a businessman would settle it for them in a month, they didn't solve it here in 10, 15, 20 years. Well, it's not just about Agrokor, it's about the whole relationship of seriousness to the Croatian state and to the Croatian people, that's the problem. We treat the Croatian people unseriously, and we treat the institutions in which we work unseriously. Whether it's an institution of state or even private something that we want to enjoy the luxury of, and this time should never have allowed us to set ourselves up. The Germans that are the richest in Europe are not a luxurious people but rather a decent, cultural and trying to keep them in every segment where they can, and we throw ourselves everywhere we go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35974	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35975	If you listened to me very carefully, I also supported this law on behalf of the club because this is how the state or government gets into this problem. Letting everyone, absolute freedom of the market to regulate all relationships anywhere, has not proved to be completely sufficient and completely correct. So there are times when the state has to say I stand behind my citizens, I stand behind projects that matter to the state. And that's why I think it's good to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35976	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dodig, for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35977	Mr. President. Comrade Dodig, you've talked a lot about your trust debate. Of course trust is important, you talked about who should solve problems. It is also known that if there is a problem that the same people who created this problem continue to work the same way and thinking in the same way will never solve this problem. There's a dilemma that keeps coming into my head, and here you are, right now, you're the one who encouraged me to ask you that. So we all know what stockholm syndrome is. The robbers ran into the bank and there they trapped people trying to secure themselves something that didn't belong to them. Don't you think this law gives us a Croatian version of the Stockholm syndrome where all employees, workers, farmers, suppliers will be hostages of robbers, bosses, his adversaries, Troikas Dalic, Plenkovic, Marić, who assures him by this law that he has done what he has done so far. What's the basis of Stockholm syndrome? So the prisoners, in this case the workers, are addicted to their boss, even creating an emotional relationship with him and he uses it by throwing them crumbs to survive but he doesn't care if he stays alive for the rest of his life. That's exactly what it's trying to do with this 12-month period through a law like this where we get something else in Croatia that no one in the world has had to make our citizens victims of Stockholm syndrome designed by the boss and his closest associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35978	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35979	I understand your fears but I don't think so. I believe the government will bring solutions and we do not see at this time, which will benefit all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that we're here to pass laws, to allow this law to happen and to see in advance the negative consequences of this law, I don't see them. It is, I told you, as it is wrong not to believe everything, we are possessed by such doubts and such mistrust that I understand you. But I want to get out of position, so it can go better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35980	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dodig, for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35981	Thank you very much. Comrade Dodig, you have, in your debate, almost, at least that's how I realized it, called for unity and full support for the prime minister and the government in the solution they propose and on this side excluded the possibility that someone really doesn't think the way the Prime Minister thinks this problem can be solved and we, in opposition or opposition, think that there are other solutions and today we have made it very clear. As soon as we offer other things we offer changes to existing regulations that will allow to protect more workers and small and medium-sized enterprises and we think that this can be done in a different way. I don't like the ultimate attitude, not just of you, but of the prime minister today. You've seen each other's faces today, quite nervously where he asked us to and called the opposition to criticise politics,... Demagogue and basically he's carrying that responsibility and they expect support from everyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There has to be an elemental trust. When a man cheats on you once, when he speaks for example as Minister Maric, a month ago that everything is okay you simply can't trust him, you can't give him Bianca's trust again. So there are many things that our citizens see and that they are convinced that they do not understand. Here, try talking to people and you will see 90% of people do not trust this situation or Zdravko Marić, nor Andrej Plenkovic or the administration of Agrokor that has been so far. And that's the problem. Then why are you asking us to give that trust, Bianca, when they haven't convinced us of it themselves? What I'm interested in, and the thing that bothers me the most is that people They get paid and the suppliers get their money. [[Intruder Jandroković: colleague Maras, thank you.]] I apologize Mr. Jandrokovic, you have a slightly different style than your colleague Brkic Millian, so until we learn after the debate, we will probably be correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35982	Well, here's the deal. From now on, it's a little stricter rules. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35983	My colleague Maras, I do not call absolutely on unity, nor did I in any way honor you and honor you for your opinions and attitudes, but objectively I think it is objective to talk about Minister Maric at this point and therefore to question the law is not, it does not seem justified to me. To put Minister Maric's trust beyond this which may be related to this, that's another matter. We are passing a law here that will apply to something other than Minister Marić. On the government's functioning, on anything. So the law is one thing and your remarks on Minister Marić are right but not in the context of this. That's the only thing I don't think is good. I wouldn't do that, but you have the right to do what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35984	Thank you. And a replica of the last, esteemed Greek fellow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In this important peaceful atmosphere than it was a few hours ago, we can look back on some of the key things that seem to me to mean, and they're not mentioned enough today. To say who's blood, this, that, to go into history long. It's good, history always teaches us something but it's much more important at this point how to save people, workers who work there, how to save suppliers, and that's the key thesis that comes up today. Now that you're entering the structure of the problem, then you can see in fact that on the religious side there are banks that my colleague Misic mentioned earlier that approved the same Agreocor loans of 7.8. 10%. So last year's interest debt was 2 and a half billion kuna, which is 10% of the total debt of Agrokor, 10%. Therefore, if it were some normal interest, even a little more than in Austria, Slovenia or I don't know our neighborhood, there would still be a billion to two billion kunas left to go to suppliers. And that's where we need to look for a solution. Why am I saying that? So the people who are going to run this story below, in the time that is ahead of us without pressure on banks in terms of credit reprogrammes and new interest on the same ones, there is no salvation for Agrokor. That should be clear to everyone. Therefore, it is as often as in many other situations here, and even in the context of the bank cause problems, and unfortunately the banks are the most significant part of the solution and we have to keep that in mind. Therefore, with all the other problems mentioned here today, I hold that crucial because banks are over 50% of the total debt with large suppliers they are over 2/3 of the Religious Council or I don't know that wider body that will be formed and they will decide the fate of Agrokor. That's what you should keep in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35986	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35987	Comrade Greek, I don't know if you really replicated or expressed your opinion. I'm glad we created an atmosphere like this so we could talk. Henry Ford said in time that if people knew how the financial system works, they'd have a revolution tomorrow, you know. The issue of banks is an absolute question that needs to be opened. However, this government is really not a little guilty because of the situation it is in. And to refuse in the context of this law any trust to the government seems unacceptable to me. And if we had to open up the issue of banks, financial flows and everything that happens in that part of Croatia, that's absolutely true. You say that I can't be surprised either, Kaufland and Lidl finance a German bank with 1% interest, and Todorovic takes interest up to 10%. Well, there's no way he's good enough to survive that. It's just a matter of him, or it's a matter of one systemic mistake, that's all. But I'm saying, it's not this government's fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35988	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a new debate, it is the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia and distinguished colleague Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Where are now those economists, economic analysts who have convinced us over the past years that everything in this country needs to be privatised as just before said and respected Dr. Dodig, who said that the market is the only real judge, the ideal system in which the economy works. And today just one private company has, it has given the biggest pains than almost all public companies in Croatia combined. I'd also like to see the Deputy Prime Minister representing exactly that attitude. Everyone knew everything, nobody did anything. And that's why, Professor Dodig, I appreciate your opinion. The words on the one hand are a melem, on the other side of the saber that cuts, but I'm going to have to say some things that won't be liked, but also some things that the public has never heard. Who will secure a liquidity loan in the next ten days, and then pay for Easter and keep the workers protected? It's a key question and it's a question of interventionism. I have been saying for 15 years that this country is going to destroy this monetary-credit system, the interest in the interest of interest, and I am glad to hear today that there is more and more support in this House for this thinking, and I need to open that question. Expert team of parties Change Croatia, made up of top lawyers and economists for days follow this case Agrokor, new circumstances, we are working out scenarios. I have some suggestions for a solution, but I'm not sure it can, that it has the courage to have a good time. Because this situation requires state decisions, not textbook solutions that don't exist. According to the Act on the procedure of the Emergency Administration, the Ministry of Economy shall appoint an extraordinary Commissioner, as set out in Article 10 and the Authority in Article 14. Right? This draft law on extraordinary administration, while at the same time the extraordinary commissioner reports on his work by the ministry, not the Parliament. And you see, all of this is the result of extraordinary circumstances, and the results of the Parliament's commissioners and supervisory body, the Assembly must not know anything. So why? What are we discussing? So we won't have feedback, and we're asked to have legitimacy to support this law. So, I'm making an argument. The second in the procedure for the launch of an extraordinary administration, which are articles 19 to 23, has no technically developed so-called. the handover of those duties between the debtors, that's Agrokor and the Commissioner we're talking about. And this seems to be the most important detail in which the debtor can always seek protection with the Constitutional Court because the way in which the management rights are acquired and dismissed is not described here. And as the devil knows, it's in the details. The council should not give any consent until it has the right picture of things. We want the truth about Agrokor. I repeat, we want the truth about Agrokor. We don't need a review that's going to be doing a report for three months that we know everything, so that top management in Agrokor in 24 hours can at the request of the government indicate that key contours are known. Political opportunism and volunteerism in the application of the law in the case of Agrokor does not speak any better than the Whites I will now describe, which is not described. I remind you that in 2011, the former HANFA Administration made a decision on the mandatory bid to take over the Belje that Agrokor should have acted on. But as you know in the case, this spottically involved the Constitutional Court immediately which ordered the Administrative Court to make a decision. And in 2012, as the new management at HANFA changed now, the Administrative Court ordered HANFA to return the case for re-determination. And what happened? After a major media coup on the old administration and its then director, Dr. Antu Samodol, the new administrative council imagine the conclusion suspends the process of determining the obligation of Agrokor and concludes that there was no obligation to take over. Now you see that I actually did and I didn't say anything. But what is it? How was that done, colleagues and colleagues? Based on the testimony of the two witnesses from the Croatian Privatisation Fund who witnessed to God that the sales of the Republic of Croatia and Agrokor worked together, I repeat that the Republic of Croatia and Agrokor acted together, and in this case there was no obligation to take over. In other words, the Republic of Croatia sold Belje Agrokor and stayed with him partner with a few percent, imagine. Then Agrokor had to pay on the basis of a public offering of about 800 million kuna for the takeover of Belje. The Constitutional Court wrote in writing that it would compromise such an amount, a strategic company such as Agrokor. Gentlemen, today when he owes 30 billion it's not a strategic problem for this country and this Agrokor. And that's why this man was exiled by Dr. Ante Samodol because he was protecting the order, the HANAF, and he was protecting the system, that's what haunts people, that's the truth. What else is it about when we talk about Belle? Imagine that Agrokor then had to pay 800 million kuna, wouldn't have had the money and wouldn't dare go shopping for Mercator. If it hadn't been for Mercator's purchase, there wouldn't have been this problem and we wouldn't be sitting here today maybe half the night discussing it, you see. So, I repeat, that was then done which would not have been Agrokor in that case, and neither would we have anything to discuss. I point to a number of questions and facts that the DORH would have to account for. And let me just say that in this study of the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and Agrokor on the matter of Belje, these two witnesses who testified and said that on this issue, the matter of Belje that both the Republic of Croatia and Agrokor work together is that one of the witnesses in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and on behalf of the state was Dr. Andrija Hebrang. So when I skip this issue of the Whites, so I don't talk for a long time, the question arises whether today the Whites and the Republics are still common, let's say the Joint Participants owned by Belje. No one has shown themselves to this day, neither has the Zagreb Stock Exchange been reported, and therefore investors have been led astray because they have not been presented with the right information. So if Agrokor and the Republic of Croatia are no longer in the joint action, why hasn't it been published? So I ask the DORH to examine all participants in making such decisions and determine the damage caused by the Republic of Croatia. Next thing you know, finally when it comes to the factoring law I was talking about last year, now it's time to tell the real truth. You remember that in the history of the Croatian state, no law has stalled as much in application as the factoring law. His application took two and a half years. I remind you that the SDP government passed the factoring law in July 2014 with a year-long adjustment deadline, and then, by regulation, the same SDP government extended it until 31.3.2016. In addition, the HDZ government has implemented the same law by 1.1.2017. we all know why. I don't know if you know why, now I'm going to tell you because, in this particular factoring law, there was a provision that only those bonds that came out of a commodity money relationship or after the actual delivery of goods and services could be escrowed, which would tell me who have cover. Thus, for two and a half years, the law was stalled because it was clearly not known to exist. And when the bond has no coverage in the commodity money means actual shipments of goods and into the servant, then it is nothing more than an incursion into the monetary system of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Party Change Croatia as bitter and as difficult as it is to be true, we will not recover as a state and people until we know the truth because only when we learn the truth can we seek the right solutions on this basis, we can trust people, institutions because on these examples, you see these two examples, see all the decay of the system that has been so far, there are incestuous connections, so it is not... Therefore, the party Change Croatia is looking for the establishment of an investigative committee to answer this issue of institutions that are therefore linked to this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From these cases I explained to the monetary system. Imagine the CNB yesterday stating that everyone knew everything but no one did anything. So please, when an institution says something like that, what can an ordinary citizen do? Why didn't the CNB shut up and stop Agrokor's borrowings? Why did he let the bonds be broadcast without cover? And one more thing to remind you of. In these two days, something else is going on, first of all, in the custody accounts of Podravska Banka, there is a transfer of shares from one owner to another owner, someone mentioned here today. What's this about, gentlemen? So it's about someone obviously giving loans or participating, delivering goods and looking for stocks in maybe Belja, Vupika, etc., and now that they can't pay that same company he's pulling shares and is becoming, therefore, increasing the amount, percentage of shares and ownership in certain companies in the Agrokor system. I ask on behalf of the party We change Croatia that HANFA urgently informs whether these are related persons, whether it is a cumulation of shares, if that percentage has passed a certain measure to publish a public takeover offer. Here in this country, there's really one thing I'd say dispersal. If we're chosen here to change things then let's make these changes. It's not enough that we're just raving anger here even though we can't speak without emotion. Unfortunately, that's right. However, we must find the right solutions here. What is the right solution, solutions are not spoken of. The Commissioner, so the man we're talking about today, he's actually a consultant, he'll only be a commissioner if he's appointed by the court on a proposal from the government, but you know what? It cannot affect the management of companies that are part of Agrokora. So we have a problem again. So what happens if the little suppliers disagree with this plan? They can't be ordered, they can ask for bankruptcy. Therefore, there are many problems, and if this solution does not occur, the first one will be the family farms of which about 70,000 will potentially run out of money. The activation of bonds that can't pay off the Agrokor system goes to suppliers and we have simple paralysis of the system. There is a solution. It has been applied by other countries since 2008, in 2009. It has to be included, so this isn't the solution. Instead of this law, only 3.4 new articles in the Banking Act should have been made to speed it up, to give that bank or creditor now a liquidity loan significant to give him the right of the championship precisely in the law, to charge and to introduce a moratorium for three months that no one should, means to have claims and not to have. These are famous things in the world. So we don't have to come up with hot water. However, we do not recognize in this country competence, we act like little children, this stranger comes to the village as if someone, in a small village someone from Zagreb, wants everyone to see what it looks like, etc. It's like when we were learning about what stocks and trading are on the stock exchanges. Gentlemen, this is a serious problem, but there are solutions. I have no doubt that this law will be passed because most of it exists, we will not support it for exactly the reason why it favors one company. So I've made arguments why we won't support him, and I won't support him, not because I don't like this party or that party, but because I think there's a better solution, and for the right solution, we're at our disposal if he has the courage and the political will to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35990	Thank you, too. We have six replicas. The first is a replica of a distinguished colleague of Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35991	Your Honor. Professor Lovrinović, so I have one question for you, can you compare the way Arokor has settled his obligations, i.e. by borrowing on all sides. Or Agrokor returned the loans in a way that he was taking new loans, that debt on the debt, interest on the one hand. On the other hand, the state, or Agrokor, was late paying suppliers. So the state is doing the same thing. The state also means the old loans do not return but rather take new, same interest on interest, debt on debt and also on suppliers, e.g. The drugs are late for payment. Is there in essence any difference between the way Minister Maric managed Agrokor as executive director and the way in which we know where... Agrokor and the way Minister Maric currently manages state finances? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that an identical model? So loans and bonds on the one hand debt and debt on the other hand, withdrawal with settlement of demand for suppliers, etc.? That's what I want to know, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35992	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35993	Here's Agent Pernar, very short. If someone is in charge of 10% as Agrokor was in debt, they can't really repay the loans properly, he only has one option left, which is to drain his suppliers. Because if he were to say 0% and that month, two, three, maybe six months now I'm speaking hypothetically, so he had to go somewhere free of charge with 0% credit, which is from the suppliers to get air selling their goods in order to get 10% credit. However, the race was lost in advance. But these suppliers while waiting for two, three months or more, they had to borrow themselves from banks at very high interest rates. And I repeat here, and that's what you sometimes say, that you can't survive in this country any legal entities with a system like this, a founding system, a financial system that you simply knew long ago in the economy. If your interest rate is higher than your GDP growth rate, then you can't, there's no way or the growth rate will get businesses. It's a lost battle and such debts cannot be paid beyond some limit. So here we have a system problem. This is why I was saying that we should hold a plenary session of the Parliament that we must change the deformed monetary and credit system in Croatia because there is no bread here. By yesterday, Agrokor thought he would survive this system, but he also fell to his knees. Next, there will be another state, including the state itself. I don't mean to be disastrous, but I remind you that I've been talking about this for 15 years and we've come to this. Dear gentlemen, it's about time we sobered up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35994	Thank you. Replica number two, esteemed colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35995	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Lovrinović, you are in your debate almost so identically speaking in terms of the solution of what you have been saying here all day and SDP's Advocacy Club that we can find a solution and that it exists and that it doesn't need to be long sought out or invented hot water. And that's what we want, and the HDZ government obviously doesn't want it. She wants state interventionism to manage this debt, put the director inside and eventually play those who are the weakest on the market. And I have to say here right now, and people are still looking at us in the transmission that I'm not satisfied with either the relationship or the seriousness that the prime minister has set himself up under this law. In these moments, the prime minister in the Croatian government is waiting for Alvarez III. So he's not talking here to the representatives of the people, with the people who pass the law, he's not listening to the arguments, he's waiting for Alvarez III. This is the latest information from the Croatian government. And I'm asking another question. Who's running the company now? Today we have seen certain changes in the leading posts in Agrokor. If Alvarez III landed yesterday night, so it's not possible that he's already met so much with the situation and people that he's already made some changes today. Is it possible that Prime Minister Plenkovic is already practicing while we here in the Croatian Parliament have not even passed this law and is agreeing with Alvarez III certain changes in Agrokor, whether he manages the company, whether it shows how the state intervenes or does not interest me. And that's why I'm calling to have Prime Minister Plenkovic return to us, to ask him these questions, not to speak to Alvarez III now. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35996	Thank you, too. I'm just asking that we stick to the weather. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35997	Well, here's a distinguished colleague, Maras, who actually commented more, there weren't any special replicas. Well, there are some similarities in our proposals, because we represent a return to bankruptcy law and its improvement in two, three, key things, and that's common. And I think it works that way everywhere. When America was saving, the U.S. government, General Motors, wasn't making up a new law, but activated Article 11. The bankruptcy law, which just says no one is charged by debtors for three months, gives one peace to come up with a bankruptcy plan, or a restructuring programme. And then after that, there's the restructuring. Selling perhaps some of the parts of the property, individual companies in fact capitalization, conversion, debt demand, etc. It means all known restructuring techniques. That'll follow right here. But under what control, in which way we do not know. That's why I'm talking about this law. I'd prefer what you could have done, so I have to say I'm sorry, if you'd made the right decision and forced yourselves, so Agrokor to launch a public offering for Belje, that it was done as I explained today we wouldn't be in this situation. But let's look for a solution. The solution is not this law, but where is the money? Who will give the money to save Agrokor gentlemen? We have that solution. I'm not taking it out today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35998	Thank you. Third replica, distinguished fellow Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u35999	Thank you, Vice President. Professor Lovrinović, come on, please explain to me how it is possible that Agrokor has hacked into the monetary system of the Republic of Croatia? What does it look like and why hasn't the National Bank intervened on that case? Is that possible, and I'm just curious about what it looked like when it was broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36000	Thank you, fellow Misic. Well, that looks like it. There may be a school question around, but this is a serious problem. It's estimated that there are between six and ten billion kunas, I'd like to get official data, I'm talking about estimates. What does it look like, exactly? She's long since been expelled from use. The country where people are happy to receive bonds means that the judiciary is functioning and that the country is in a good situation, where people are reluctant to receive or reject the bonds, means that the country is a mess. And what happens most often? Most often legal entities may betray, broadcast bonds that do not have coverage. What does the cover note mean? If I'm buying, making cars, so I need 400 pairs of tires to install and sell cars, and I don't have money on the gyro, I'm gonna deliver the bill to the tire supplier for three months, and I'm bound to pay 90th day with the money, with the gyro bill. The note is a transport instrument, and it is not a payment instrument, it is an insurance instrument and a transport instrument. And you look at these days and today that some respected lawyers, even academics, claim that the exchange is a payment instrument and that it can be broadcast without cover, please. Well, that's scandalous. So, if you've aired the bill and sold these tires like I said, you owe that money from selling the tires to whoever delivered it for 90 days. And if there wasn't a tire and a real relationship of the transaction, and he issued a note, then that note is uncovered. That's why it's an incursion into the monetary system that's a couple of excelence responsibilities of the CNB that's never been responsible for anything in this country in the last 15, 20 years, and that's why we're gentlemen in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36001	Thank you very much. Next replica, distinguished colleague Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36002	... Vice President of the Parliament. So I can agree with you fellow Lovrinovic that Agrokor is one... or quasi bank, it's a quasi bank and that a classic... or supplier happened that the one who first ran out was saving himself from his claims. But do you know that, say, the exposure of Croatian pension funds, so our funds that I believe here most people have in the second pillar, just as far as Ledo is concerned, is 26%, 26% are exposed, how much is the loss of pensions and how unfortunately our blackest scenarios are realized. And now that this law is even acceptable, which isn't for us in the SDP, I'm going to ask you to comment on something that you may not be in your presentation, be careful with this, an extraordinary commissioner may have deputies, not even how many. Who's calling them? On a proposal from the government. What are the conditions for an extraordinary commissioner or for deputies? Is there somewhere in the bill that they say, what would be normal to me, they can't be employees of the ministry, they can't be former state officials, they can't be connected to any dependent societies, so that's not what this law says. So let's see further, the composition of the religious council, determines the court on the suggestion of an extraordinary commissioner, where the number of members must be odd. Neither how many, nor the criteria of choice are prescribed, nor what is worst is prescribed to protect small suppliers. So let's just supplement your proposal, so if it's a standstill or freezing contract, then let's freeze and obligations of small suppliers to the IRS, then there's also a state instrument to be active in the religious council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36003	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36004	Dear colleague Doncic. There are elements that even on the issue of bonds in this case might even be called a quasi bank because the exchange rate, especially without cover, plays one very important function of money, which is a transport function, not a payment function, because the bond must ultimately be paid in cash. Thus, she practically took on such a role. And if you and I print a photocopy of the bills in a basement, they'll shut us down, maybe a thousand kunas or ten thousand kunas. Here if someone's broadcast billions, obviously it's not his problem anymore, it's actually something else. Why, I repeat a few excellences, a question of the responsibility of the CNB but we see that it is a state in the state and how many more disasters such as this have to be in addition to 330 thousand blocked, besides being executed, in addition to this indifference, besides now these interest rates to ask a final question and say let's change that deformed and monetary credit system. And when you talk about the competences of the people who are going to be in these bodies, you would repeat what I said, if the state, government and all those who support it, give authority to what to do and what not to make the handovers are not qualified people, all the participants in this process can eventually ask, in my opinion, I'm not a lawyer, but it's logical to sue the state because they're simply being brought into an unequal position. And when you talk about small suppliers, they all had to pay upfront VAT on the delivered goods to the Agrokor system. So look, please, and VAT and payment delays, so no one can survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36005	Thank you very much. Fifth replica, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36006	Representative Lovrinović, of you are crediblely representing your thesis and of course you have the right to defend, however, and you hit two very important topics when Agrokor began to fail, of course it came to ownership as it came, of course that secret services and other institutions did not control what must not happen, that one man is holding the entire economic system. But when you mentioned Mercator, it was 26.6. In 2014, then Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic said, a good thing for Croatia from Belgium. I can also quote a statement, and then the destruction of Agrokor began, as you said, I can quote Mr Milanovic's statement, and I see that his ministers, i.e. Mr. Todorovic's current subjugations, which allowed the kickings to buy Mercator in this way, say so. I think it's a good thing for Croatia and the expansion of Croatian production, we will all benefit from it, said Prime Minister Milanovic about the sale of Merkatora Agrokor, the government reported on its website in 2014. I love people who are credible and who speak as you say. The CNB also said that as a layman, the red light always lit not those loans that were in interest 10% higher than in others. And now the question is, what does that governor do more, who he served as a layman, I ask you? And why his statement today. Todoric, his master, is now trodden, when he kneels. What are these institutions doing? And it's time for them to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36007	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36008	... Hey, buddy Bull, let's start in the back like this, making jokes about the governor and whether the red light was obviously for some green ones, so do whatever you want and do for the other red ones. [[Specially enabled.]] But here's an additional reason to speed up as a MOST this adoption of the Law amending the CNB law. So if we had this before, let's speed it up really to bring it in. And as for this Mercator purchase, you know what? Every political elite, the furniture likes to get high when a company, especially buys a company abroad. You know he also sees it as his own success, the success of the country. And in that sense, if it's all right, then it's okay. However, if you are in debt and if you do not know the true state of affairs, then it turns out to be bad. But look at something else nobody tells. Whom does he most demand, who owes the most, asks Agrokor, as far as the foreign debt is concerned? It's two Russian banks. How will they now give a new loan, for example? for liquidity to save a billion and a half dollars, the euro of both banks here. They are not primarily mortgages, the payment means the property Agrokor has because domestic banks, some suppliers have signed in and that's the trouble. So why isn't it simply said, OK, you Russian banks or other, give me 2.3 billion liquidity loans. So what? So get into the first order of charge because it'll fit everyone. If he knows, if we're saying that capital has no nation, no borders, so let's make other offers. But here everyone hides behind something. Well, gentlemen, we need to speak openly here, the workers expect solutions from us, suppliers, not that we're secretly playing who's going to take something from whom...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36009	Thank you. Replica No. "Sixth Honored colleague of the Goddess Macar."
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36010	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, my colleague Lovrinović, I agree with you that we have a bankruptcy law that applies to all the businessmen in the problems and which should have been complemented by several articles and not by a new law. However, now that we have this bill, it is normal for us to discuss it. And you looked back saying that you have a far more high-quality proposal on how to solve the question of the believer. And that's what I'm particularly interested in. In the case of creditors, actually suppliers of those craftsmen and small O.P.G.s, that is, all O.P.G.s. Fortunately, they should not pay VAT immediately after the invoice but still pay it when they charge the bill but they have agreed payment deadlines of 180 days for the delivery of Agrokor, i.e. Konzum. That deadline is not respected either, but it's far, far more. In this situation where they now have to finance the seed, when they have to invest, that's how this part is going to go, and that's not paying at all. I don't just know how he'll survive because even when he pays off the incentives if there's any obligation to the state simply a paying agency in agriculture simply sends over and that OPG guy, our farmer gets nothing because he has to settle all his obligations neatly. Now that this situation is still going and I'm not even interested in what your opinion is, how are they going to survive at all, do you have any concrete solutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36011	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36012	Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. You've really touched that most sensitive part, the segment in this Agrocora crisis, they're small suppliers. You're right, I think that to traffic from some 3.35 million a year you don't have to pay by invoiced realization. But what with that over 3.5 million, there are a lot of them, so these are huge amounts and contributions are paid everything else and you said yourself if you don't pay a few months that it's totally exhausting. Now you can see the total failure of VAT collection concepts by invoiced rather than realised means delivery, not realisation. So now you can see it. Everyone credits, practically the state, and in this case Agrokor. Wouldn't it be fair now, in fact, that's why we're pushing for it, so let's change Croatia to pay VAT for the paid realisation. And on the other hand, it's easy for us to philosophize right now, but we need to get rid of these little suppliers how the state needs to protect them. Other mechanisms will have to be activated, no private banks or anyone else will worry about it. It's going to have to be one, so it's a state-designed state within the Ministry that might accept the bonds that these suppliers have because they're going to pay them back to settle maybe their own taxes. I'm now speaking aproximately although certain proposals for a solution for the whole system we have, but as I said today is not about how to solve it, it's just about this law. Here's a thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36013	Thank you. We're going to the next club of representatives, it's the SDSS club and distinguished colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36014	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister. We all know that between one of the system companies in the Republic of Croatia, there is a umbilical cord between Agrokora and the state. And as the birth of the state is related to Agrokor, so is the birth of Agrokor tied to the state. And no one can pretend here that it's not a matter of state and we know it. And whatever the state does, there's no good solution in this case. What's only good is that the state is on this, the state is its institutions, so the government and the Parliament are primarily the judiciary, the judiciary in general looking at awareness because this message is actually to all of us about how the state works in its economic and financial system, which is what has been heard several times during the debate today including the last replicas and the last debate. In other words, the state, by chance, decided to say this is a private company, most of the creditors are private investors, suppliers are private persons, the state will take what it needs to take, these are outstanding obligations to the state and the rest is a matter of the market and the matter of course regulatory mechanisms of the state itself. She could have done that. And among us there is an advocate of such a solution. What consequences would be difficult to predict, but they would not be good. On the other hand, the state could take on more initiative and greater responsibility, could take full responsibility for the situation in Agrokor, could take it for one kuna and do what it thought best for the interests of workers, for the interests of suppliers and go into negotiations with the believers. She hasn't decided on that either. She found this solution where we heard there are a lot of technical objections, which depend on the real possibility of implementation based on such a legal solution. What are the possible risks I will only focus on, primarily on what the risks to the state with this type of role in the mixer in one process. So taking responsibility as a mixer in one process with this law and the dangers are as follows. First with this law state actually forms so-called. system companies, and thereby seriously looking at it, can violate the principle of equality in the competition and equality in financial, economic business. So, a fundamental constitutional, one of the fundamental constitutional values, which is the principle of equality. And that's what some representatives, professors of constitutional law, meant when they said the law could be challenged before the Constitutional Court. Of course, there are those who will say that the Constitution knows another principle, which is the principle of proportionality, that in some cases the state can take certain steps if these steps reduce the damage to its citizens, its companies and stability within the state itself, and that is correct. Only now, of course, is the question of whether adequate balance will be reached between these two principles. Believers will probably say no. Why? Well, it's because this law primarily takes the side of debtors. The state will say the credentials have their own mechanisms, their instruments that have already been activated. The state is here to establish some kind of balance. And that's why we're passing a law like this. Now, what if the whole idea didn't work out and the state got involved? What if the credentials or suppliers right in the country and their role recognize someone who has limited them in the realisation of their rights and in front of domestic and international courts initiating proceedings, which they can. In this case, the state will enter a conscious area, the government will enter a conscious risk area. At first I said, there's no happy solution, it's just a question of what the risk is. The government has estimated that here is probably the lowest risk, but the risk of respected colleagues and colleagues is present and serious, very serious. And that's why it's no wonder if someone's prime minister seemed nervous, made decisions like this, not to stand on his side, I've seen many prime ministers in similar or other situations, but this is an attempt to either happen next to the open sea to try to unload the cargo and, in principle, whoever comes first, who takes more or more to bring the ship into port and then try to control what will happen to the cargo and the ship. One of the biggest problems of respected colleagues and colleagues, one of the biggest strangers is actually what we don't even know, we're constituencies and MPs here, and there's a partial responsibility and government to the extent that the government knows what we don't know, and that's what Agrokor's company really owes us. We know that 16 billion kuna is a demand to the suppliers by the suppliers, and how much is it to other creditors, to launder banks, to funds, how much is it? 35, 48, we don't know that. Someone will say, of course, we can't even know until we get in and make the necessary screening, but it's another additional risk for the adoption of this law and its success. Now, could this have stopped? Yes, it is. But under what assumption? Assuming both states and others in the country don't work the way Agrokor works. Assuming that regulatory mechanisms in the country were such as to avoid monopolism and monopoly positions, which did not happen, not only in this area but also in a number of other areas. We all know that in Croatia, especially the former minister and former minister of the other small enterprise, small and medium-sized enterprises, 95% of the companies in Croatia belong to small and medium-sized enterprises, including Agrokor and it is made up of small and medium-sized enterprises. What the other small and medium-sized companies will say that no one will treat systemically, and here we will treat Agrokora's concert in such a way, even though it is actually a concert of small and medium-sized companies. But, of course, this is the theme of how it was formed and how a huge concert was formed with a role in the economy and in a society that became enormous. So, I remember the 2015 debate when it was a matter of protecting savings, it was then a left-wing government that passed a law on how to protect against the negative effects of interest credit policies outside the country and in the country. The schedule of those who voiced against the need to do so was reversed, so colleagues on the right were against it, colleagues on the left advocated it. Now it's the other way around. Of course, the same goes for the public. The public then supported those who wanted to protect the savings, and against those who wanted to protect the concert. It's today's condition. For what? Not because they are against the preservation of jobs, not in order to preserve what needs to be preserved in the country, which is a possible capital that would open and preserve a minimum space for restoration or continuation of business. It's because they see a kind of injustice in which the state participates. If it has produced injustice over time and if that injustice has led to a breakdown as it has in this case, people believe that another solution should be found. Unfortunately, there is no easy solution in this case. The government has decided to take a solution that has a series of risks, contains or possibly a series of risks, but it couldn't stay on the side, enters the full takeover of this company even less, and it's headed this way and we're still going to deal with this topic. And let's be aware that the opportunity for us to realize on this is how the role of the state is different from that of the companies living from the state. They were created as state-owned companies in the transformation of state-owned assets and became some kind of para-state companies. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36015	Thank you. We move to replicas, we have six. The first person to answer for the line is Honorable colleague Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36016	Thank you, Your Honor, I remember when we were in this House, we voted on removing immunity from our colleague, Sauchi, today he is, unfortunately, not here. And what's the matter? Because of 500 thousand kuna, that man ended up on a pillar of shame, was demonized and Satanized through all the media. I remember when he was walking down the Upper City with that bag, he was being followed by all the cameras and ended up in Remetinco for 500 thousand kuna of alleged damage he did. It was a burden on him. Today, we have a situation that one other person, Ivica Todorovic, who is not even a parliamentary representative, has not even gone to the polls to trick suppliers for 16 billion kunas through bonds without cover. So the man was giving these bonds of 16 billion, and the suppliers were taking them, they know that they won't be able to charge themselves, and he's laughing at the castle, laughing at Kulmer's castles and watching this debate and thinking of a rotten grandmother's hand to pass her day and laughing at us how stupid we are. We're struggling here because of the porridge he made. So I'd like to ask you fellow Pupovac, why, in the same way that they took Saucha to custody, why, in the same way, Mr. Ivica Todorovic, who cheated on suppliers for 16 billion kuna, made a fraud in economic business because he was issuing bonds without a cover that I can't charge, why don't the police lead him too? Is it perhaps because the DORH protects him, because all state institutions are in his service and because he is actually the real master of this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36017	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36018	Dear colleague Pernar, in the case of our colleague, Sauche, we acted hastily, using the institute to abolish the immunity of the MPs. I'm talking about us, I'm not gonna talk about what the state's attorney's done, but we acted rashly. In the case of Agrokor and his owner and management president until yesterday, there are many who would have hit like a dead donkey today and I don't belong among you. Until yesterday, they dared neither to write nor to say a single word, and those small media that were possibly, whose journalists were potentially questioning and calling, accusing, and I don't know what they were doing. So in this case as well as in the case of fellow Sauche, there are institutions that need to do so. Because if the institutions had done their job in case of unpaid obligations to suppliers, we wouldn't have a condition that we have at least to the suppliers today. If the regulatory institutions in the state had done their job in borrowing from banks, funds, then we certainly wouldn't be discussing how we're discussing today. So I'd like to tell you all, this isn't just a debate about Todorovic, this is a debate about us and how our country works. In America, capitalists have power and can manipulate state institutions but there are other institutes in that country that can correct it. Unfortunately for us, we come to this to discuss without having the true power to do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36019	Thank you. Another replica of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36020	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pupovac, you said that the state should take Agrokor in some variant for 1 kuna and you asked the question of what the real responsibility of Agrokor is. The responsibility of Agrokor is such that he still had more debts in 2015 than his assets. So we could actually take on Agrokor only if Ivica Todoric paid us. Eventually, that would make sense. I'll explain how. Ivica Todorovic, in order to obtain a loan from the Russian bank, transferred most of his business to the Adria Group Holding company in the Netherlands and then, through the investment, first in Croatia, tax evasion, and the second falsely portrayed the balance sheet. So back in 2015, this company was, therefore, a completely junk in a modern economic dictionary, and now it's even worse. And it is really a question of how it is possible that Ivica Todoric brought the company into such a state along with his team. Let's not forget that his chief advisor is Zeljko Rohatinski. It is his chief adviser, Croatia's most successful banker and current finance minister. If he had acquired a company without a single kuna in his pocket, he didn't have to pay a single kuna that you've now offered. And if he has a huge cash business every day, if he has a Jamnica paid for by a couple of million kuna concessions to earn a billion and a half kuna a year as it is possible that with such company structure he is, so he currently has more responsibility than he is worth alone, the whole of Agrokor. And you really have to ask who's crazy enough to take over. Who's crazy enough to take on debts and not have any use for it at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36021	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36022	Dear comrade Bunjac, to be clear, I am not the one who advocates that model. I'm just saying that there are those who have advocated such a model to buy that company out for swear. As far as I'm concerned, I'd rather keep that kuna and give these to the stone door that begs when we enter, when we go to the Parliament, or when we leave the Parliament. There are so many opportunities for me as far as the economy is concerned, that my feelings of solidarity as well. As far as the other questions you've asked, that's what I call it, that's the question about us. Who's controlling our country? This Parliament, the regulatory agencies or other actors? You said other actors, I say yes, that's right. We here in the Parliament serve to be spit on by the people and to be spit on by the media as well as by the parties to which we belong. You don't have the kind of position to spit on you today, usually spit on those who are older or who belong to specific groups like mine. But in general, media production of a picture of parliamentaryism and the responsibility of MPs goes to this House to delegate itself, and others have tried to take away his power. And when we say we could vote here, we need to know what we're voting on and we need to know what we're talking about. If we don't know what the debt is, if we don't know what the risks the government takes on behalf of the country in this matter, then we don't know the necessary things. The government probably doesn't know them all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36023	Thank you, fellow Pupovac. The third replica of the esteemed colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36024	Thank you. In your presentation, you said one of the sentences that stuck to my ear, which is what if this law fails. And that's the real question that I've been asking him two, three times today. I didn't get an answer for him. First, we're in big trouble if that law is ever applied. This law, in my humble opinion, of an uninvited economical lack of knowledge, is simply pure logic. So, if you're short 15 billion kunas, you're always missing those 15 billion kunas all the time. Second. If you come into conflict with banks, an open conflict, if the banks don't accept the commissioner as a solution, then you have a closed financial injection, you're practically locked up. So I think this law is a great adventure, because we don't know how much Agrokor really owes right now. We don't know what the consequences are that can come out of the application of this law. And we may experience a situation in principle that, as a source, sucks everything around us. These six and a half billion euros are money that Croatia is not even close to right now, and we will assume with this practical responsibility to ourselves for all these debts. How are we going to calm it down? From where? Well, in the end, not only will Agrokor's workers remain unemployed, not just companies that are part of Agrokor's concert, we'll all be out of jobs. There might be an election somewhere for the Irish Parliament so we can sign up there. This isn't any thoughtful plan, this is just a plan to save Private Ryan. But I'm afraid Private Ryan is already dead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36025	Thank you. Next, not the reply to the replica. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36026	Dear fellow Vidovic is an adventure, but I'm afraid there is no fourth. What's the only question is, could they have avoided the traps of a legal dispute when it came to this law? The legal dispute between certain companies, the legal dispute between individual creditors, but that was the people who were more qualified to talk about it. But if you and I were in this place, whatever we were to do, it would be an adventure with a better solution than it is in the provisions of this law he himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36027	Thank you. Next, Tomislav Klaric fourth in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36028	Dear fellow Pupovac, I volunteered for the replica precisely because you touched something that I am deeply convinced is essentially politics that real politics, not that that I and our people are constantly experiencing, and from these constituencies, from public media events that are pure pulsism. You mentioned in your speech how you felt that today you felt the prime minister when he explained this law, the decision was difficult and politics was making decisions. The decision may be like this or something, but when a man makes it, he has to stand behind it. I am convinced that the Prime Minister, the Government and his associates are behind this decision and that they have not made it rashly, and therefore I will support this law. It's not the best solution probably, there's no ideal solution to this situation we've found ourselves in, but the decision has to be made because it's going to suffer everyone, that's one thing. When we make decisions for any of us, and you've been talking about it here, I've been signing taxpayers' bills for 12 years where millions of money is being paid, I'm standing behind every signature, maybe in some things I've made a mistake, making decisions with my associates every day, building, working not with my own money, but with our fellow citizens' money, making decisions, standing behind those decisions. And just like you said with concrete suggestions, let's make decisions that we're going to stand for. The government has made its proposal because it must be given because it is chosen and therefore has taken responsibility on itself and I believe that it is people who are deeply aware of what they are proposing. Here today I haven't heard too many concrete suggestions, I haven't heard too much support in that part, whether Todoric is like this, if anyone's been recalibrating him, if anyone's been doing anything, I don't care at this point. I'm interested at this point in how to keep that part of our economy, how to make sure that the worker who has a name and a last name gets his salary again and secures his existence, and it's hundreds of thousands of people. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36029	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36030	Dear colleague, I'll say I agree with you. Politics is in the good part of your job making decisions, and making decisions is one of the most difficult activities and activities each of us can have. It's an easy thing to do when you have an instruction to make a decision, but it's not all done and it's not for all the instructions. This is the case. We have a book to treat. There are books, but cases like this are such that they try a lot of things. And for that reason as much as we from the SDSS Club look with concern not only at what's going on in Agrokor, as we have seen earlier, given the way the company has been developing and the way it has been financially strengthened, we will not act politically in this matter and we will support the government's decision to go into what counterpart Vidovic called an adventure. Because standing at the mall watching things happen on the high seas on a boat that, as I figuratively said, creditors try to take each and every one of their own, is not the best job, especially in circumstances like ours. What is necessary is that we are aware that the interface carries with it takes serious responsibility and great risks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36031	Thank you very much. Replica number five, distinguished colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36032	Thank you very much. Mr. Pupovac, sometimes a decision shouldn't be supported unless it's good. What if she is right, Professor Jasnica Garasic, who found 11 of the Zagreb Faculty of Law experts in constitutional law, who found 11 reasons why this law was not constitutional. Who's she gonna be responsible for? Will you then seek the responsibility of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, the people who suggested it, perhaps Mr. Sprlje, I must now be a little bit and disappointed to realize that we have stayed on the gentleman, I am sorry I don't know him, probably the Secretary of State from some ministry, but we are discussing the most important law that has happened probably in the last few years in the Republic of Croatia the biggest problem, we have no other side here, we don't have the executive authority in this way presented. They're talking to Alvarez over on the other side of Mark's square. The message is very clear to the prime minister and it is also a message to the Croatian public that the Croatian public and the people whom these citizens have elected here in the Croatian Parliament are experiencing. This is a technical matter obviously for Plenović, you'll raise your hands, and I'll do whatever I want. And that is why we should not vote for this law because it shows no seriousness and respect for this House and on the other hand, I am convinced that this law will fall to the assessment of constitutionality. And that is why we should not, since then, support the proposals if they are the only ones that are proposed, if they are bad, we should not support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36033	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36034	As for me and the club I belong to when it comes to evaluations on what needs to be supported, which is not to be supported, then in our political practice there is a line that is said to be outside the Parliament, below this there is no possibility of supporting anything, and you, as minister in your government, could experience which we were also part of the majority. This is what our HDZ colleagues also know with whom we have not only today but have previously done a responsible part of the majority in the Assembly. But there's a zone or there's an area where decisions can be partly good, partly bad. I can carry less risk and more risk. They can be viewed with more certainty as positive and less certainty as positive. This is one of those solutions. All of us who prepared for this debate read a lot of things, so we also read the comments of Prof. Garesic, who absolutely deserves attention in a number of places. So I wouldn't quote it, I had general formulas, but I was also thinking about what she's talking about. So in places where we are exposed with this solution to possible legal processes as in... But the government has decided to enter the process and if it ends this job, how much of a successful risk this legal dispute will make sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if not, another story.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36035	Thank you. And the sixth replica of the esteemed colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Pupovac, doubts about the constitutionality and unconstitutional nature of this law and the determination of the Government to apply it and to send it to the Assembly, as you have seen, stem from certain articles of our Constitution and speak clearly about having called for Article 2(4), paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states that the Croatian Parliament or people are directly, independently in accordance with the Constitution and the law, deciding on the arrangement of economic, legal, political, relations in the Republic of Croatia. So they went further to Article 16, Article 16 also makes it clear that any restriction on freedom or rights must be a proportionate nature of the need for a restriction in each case. These are the things that are very important and that are excellent for the economy and economy of the Republic of Croatia, so they called for Article 49(3), which says that the state encourages economic progress, the social well-being of citizens and is concerned about the economic development of all its regions. Finally, they called for Article 50(2), which states that entrepreneurial freedoms and ownership rights can be severely restricted by law in order to protect the interests and safety of the Republic of Croatia, nature, human environment and human health. Here are the things the government has called upon from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that all speak of these very moments that are present in the Republic of Croatia today. So I don't think we should have any doubts and that this law that you will hope to support will be the one that will save this economic and economic crisis that is announced through Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36037	Thank you, too. And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36038	Dear counterpart Djakic, I am pleased that we have come to quote these provisions of the Constitution because most of the country's 25 years have not quoted them. We are satisfied that we have symbolic, rhetorical, celebratory sovereignty but to discuss how the state is practicing the sovereignty that comes out of its people we are just now starting to do so. And I'm glad you're doing it. And that makes us constitutional patriots, and you and I. Unfortunately for many things too late, unfortunately for many things with a weakened state but better ever than never. This shouldn't be expected much, because this is a fire measure, not a systematic measure, as many companies as we declare systemic, amongst us. But better and so than not to develop in any way awareness of what is our obligation as representatives, which is to devote ourselves to the fundamental constitutional values and to what we need to take from the Constitution as a basis for our actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36039	Thank you. With this we exhausted the replicas and move on to the next Club of Representatives, which is MOST Independent Lists and distinguished colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36040	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the ministry, we have before us a proposal for a law on the procedure of the extraordinary management of companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. Today, after 26 years of Croatian economy, we are actually here today and the entire public is witnessing the results of the wrong conduct of the economic policies of the Republic of Croatia as well as the poorly targeted economy. In fact, the economy in the Republic of Croatia did not focus on developing countries to small and medium-sized enterprises, but rather on encouraging large ones, and I would say the protection of large market players. This is why today we are in a position to meet 10 companies within the Republic of Croatia under this law, so 10 systemically important companies that have combined 34% of GDP, and together carry 11.5% of total employees. It's... And who's with which laser? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Intruder Jandrokovic: I ask you to calm down.]] By whom? Can I go on now? So we are now in a situation where we have 10 systemically important companies that have achieved a total income of 34% of GDP as well as 11.5% of total employees. [[Intruder Jandroković: May.]] 10 systemically important companies whose financial difficulties, i.e. negative business, have a simple unfavourable impact on the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia and are equally unforgivable and prepare countries to react in the event of a negative business to go to one of these system companies. I would only remind you that we had an example in the neighbouring country of Italy when in 2004, it also launched intervention on the private company that carried 2% of GDP, and we today have a case that a company most frequently mentioned these days, it is Agrokor carries far more than 2%. And as I said, all 10 made a total income of 34% of GDP. I don't know if you're familiar with the case in Italy, the owner of that company ended up in jail, and for many years, it's just this problem that's being solved. We have been in Croatia for 26 years, namely the witnesses to blockades, inspections, interest and all possible legal reactions and/or punishments to various crimes that small entrepreneurs or craftsmen have faced, to which small entrepreneurs or craftsmen have come by their own mistake or ignorance of what we never really are, nor will we find out. Because these are people who will not beg for help but will consciously make their mistake... Mr. Maras, please! I know the concentration in this hour isn't exactly at its peak, but hold on. You were talking! [[Intruder Jandrokovic: But really, please, it is not correct but 8 hours have passed to concentrate anyway, to allow everyone to speak exactly as we have enabled you.]] Can I? [[/Intruder Jandroković: A colleague of Maras I ask you to behave yourself. This really isn't right.]] So I'm asking if I can? ... Yes, you are. [[You can't hear it.]] Thank you. So, for 26 years, we have witnessed blockades, inspections, interest and all possible legal reactions and/or punishments to various calls for violations that small entrepreneurs or craftsmen have encountered by their mistake or ignorance, which we have never really and will not know because they are people who will not pray for help but will knowingly pay their error expensively and sometimes with their entire company, workplace or simply credit. On the other hand, here we have seen the last days, because it is often talked about in another parallel world of all kinds of improvisation, debt and even fake financial reports that have gone without punishment, without losing their jobs, and even with approved loans on conto-fals reports. These aren't little things for a small country like this. These are major problems, and these are exactly the problems stemming from the wrong economic policies that, if you ask me, should be punished. I think that we should seriously consider introducing penalties for the conduct of the wrong economic policy in which entrepreneurship was knowingly created, and at the very heart of the young, large market players were created. Today in 2017, instead of being some other country, I recently participated in a conference of EU Member States. The conference discussed an economic problem they are facing, which is to find a way for their free market and street artists to just hire and put into legal form to earn and pay taxes. So these are the problems that other countries face today in 2017. While we, on the other hand, are in a situation of possible collapse and economic recovery that we didn't even have in 1991. Namely, we are looking for a solution to how to react if one of the ten systemically important companies comes into financial trouble. We're thinking hundreds of thousands of employees and their suppliers. People who have done their job fairly or delivered their fair-produced goods are responsible for the same to be and paid and are not responsible for the situation in which they can be found in the case of financial difficulties of systemically important companies. In such situations, it is precisely the state that has allowed such companies to be created for years right up to that level that their financial difficulties affect the entire economy and lead to collapse and react and save employees and suppliers but not owners. However, I believe that the positive business that, despite the numerous benefits, subsidized lending and the EU funds have grown negatively needed to explore and find the causes in detail. It should also be sanctioned according to the results. For all of these reasons, the economic direction of the Republic of Croatia has come to the point that we need to pass a special law that will protect all creditors, suppliers, and jobs in the event of financial difficulties to go to one of the ten companies within the Republic of Croatia. And by this law, the state reacts, or intervenes in such cases but does not take over the property of the company, but introduces an extraordinary administration headed by the Commissioner. Why the special law? The existing legal framework defined by the bankruptcy law and the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement is indicated by its legal nature, dynamics and duration of insufficient and ineffective and therefore not applicable in the event of exceptional economic circumstances in the event that companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia alone and together with their dependent or related societies come into difficulties in business, which affect the overall economic, social or financial stability in the Republic of Croatia, or prove insufficiently effective for the management of risks that can arise from the stability of the Croatian economy in the event of deep financial difficulties in companies which, including related and dependent societies, have systemic significance for the Republic of Croatia. In view of the fact that this law can only be applied when there is a certain likelihood that in the Republic of Croatia there may be serious, economic and social disturbances of this law which should be seen in the context of the present dangers, due to financial difficulties of system essential societies. The state is obliged to ensure economic stability and sustainability of public finances as well as to encourage economic progress. The State is obliged to adopt measures and rules prescribed by this law which will contribute to the achievement of a clearly defined legitimate objective and form part of the overall public policy measures of the Republic of Croatia. What I intend to do in my presentation, which is to go through all the articles of this law, but in this hour, I think it's more unnecessary since we've been through it several times today, but I want to do something else that I haven't seen anyone do, and that's what I want to call the opposition that was loudest with their proposals today, and I haven't noticed the opportunity for someone to give them the opportunity to make their proposals how to fix the existing bankruptcy law, so here I call on them to replicate one by one today so that through each replica they can make one proposal, so that we can take this time to discuss these proposals that you have to improve the existing bankruptcy law that you say is better than this special law. And the other thing I have in my hand is our answers to all 11 of the Professor's remarks, and I don't mind reading if you want it or if I leave it to you, however you like. Shall I read it to you? You got it. Okay. Thus, the observation of Professor Jasnica Garesic's remarks. ... Garesic how incorrectly set the goal itself and the purpose of the bill is based on the wrong starting point. [[/The speaker reads too fast, he doesn't understand.]] In fact, as the aim of any court procedure that wishes to address the issue of a threatening or already existing incompetence to pay, the teacher sees the settlement of the credentials. However, in this procedure, the aim is not to settle the credentials, the aim of this law to maintain business, or to prevent the sudden collapse of the company's activity, which is of so great importance that this collapse would cause serious market disturbances and pull many other entrepreneurs, but also natural persons or citizens. Therefore, this law and its objectives should not be linked to the objectives which apply to a classical entrepreneur who threatens incompetence to pay or is already unable to pay. It is true that the state should not save a company that cannot properly operate on the market, but here the state does not save the company in difficulty, but saves the whole market. Second remark. The professor's observation that the state interferes with private legal relations between debtors and creditors and that it has a crucial impact because the creditors have no influence on the choice of an extraordinary commissioner is not respected, does not respect the meaning of this law. The meaning of this law is not like a bankruptcy evenly calmed by the believers and given to the believers to decide their own claims. Unlike bankruptcy here, it is a procedure to freeze all activities that are not related to regular business where regular business does not need to be interpreted. In addition, in this procedure it is also possible for creditors to decide on their claims through the conclusion of a settlement, and only if it fails to do so will the problem be solved in a regular bankruptcy procedure. The choice of an extraordinary commissioner must be operational and rapid, and there must be an opportunity to choose for this the best possible expert which would not be possible in the classical concept of bankruptcy and pre-profit proceedings, as bankruptcy managers are selected from existing lists. This is precisely the choice of an extraordinary commissioner allowing the engagement of the best experts who do not necessarily have to be from the Republic of Croatia, which freedom in choice is difficult to imagine in the option that the court is exclusively free to choose an extraordinary commissioner. The advisory body has no decisive influence, it delivers opinions on the decisions and actions of the extraordinary commissioner to seek out the ministry and or the court. It is, therefore, a advisory body that may have an impact on the design of individual positions but without any obligation. The impact of this body may and should be based solely on the strength of the reasoned arguments. The recognition of the legal effect of this procedure in other countries should not be crucial, or it will be minimal if it is at all. In fact, it is explicitly prescribed that, in the meaning of this law, only those companies based in the Republic of Croatia are linked to this law. Note number three. The professor’s point of view that the creditors have a very weakened and in fact unprotected position because they do not exercise control over the work of an extraordinary commissioner because they do not influence his appointment, nor can they ask that he be resolved would be an argument in the event that the aim of the procedure would be to evenly settle the credentials. Since the emphasis of this procedure is not on the settlement of the credentials, then it is not necessary to insist that creditors have the possibility to appoint and resolve an extraordinary commissioner. An extraordinary commissioner has the authority and has the responsibility to take those actions that the law allows him and his primary task is not to represent the believers. The draft law does not explicitly provide that an extraordinary commissioner must be provided as well as a lawyer for the damage he would have done. He has that option available but it does not seem very likely given the frequency of these procedures. It is true that this proposal does not provide for a congregation of creditors as a special body of procedure. This is because, in this procedure, the emphasis is not on the settlement of the creditors but on the continuation of the business and settlement of the creditors through the regular business of the debtor or the settlement. Moreover, given that the draft law provides for a different way of selecting an extraordinary Commissioner to meet, meetings of all creditors are not necessary except because of the need to vote on a settlement. However, if the court considers this necessary, it may carry out all the necessary evidence and invite all the believers to the hearing. It's an incorrect religious council has little authority. In addition to the right to inform the debtor and his group, and to participate in the assembly and preparation of the settlements, the Committee agrees on the taking over of the new debt on behalf of and on behalf of the debtors, and approves the payment of the outstanding claims made prior to the adoption of the opening decision, which is, in fact, the most important task of the extraordinary Commissioner. It is also incorrect that there is a strong likelihood that the same person will be members of the religious council and of the provisional religious council. Members of the interim religious council shall be appointed by the Court on a proposal from the Extraordinary Commissioner. Members of the religious council shall be appointed by the believers themselves and only if one of the groups of creditors does not appoint a member of the religious council of such a member will the court be appointed on a proposal from the extraordinary commissioner. Voting rules do not make it possible to dominate creditors with great demand. Moreover, the main rule is that the majority of creditors within each required group should vote for a settlement. Only if the vote against the groups would not succeed in favour of the conclusion of the settlement shall the subordinate rule under which it will be considered that the settlement is concluded if the total number of requests of the creditors who voted for the settlement is at least two-thirds of the total demand. A secondary rule is necessary because without it a settlement could fail even when a relatively small group of creditors did not vote a settlement. The application by Professor Garesic of the basic principle of insolvency law, according to which the legal position of debtors in the insolvency procedure should be the same and the fact that the extraordinary commissioner, with the agreement of the religious council, can pay off the necessary claims that occurred prior to the opening of the extraordinary administration procedure, did not apply this law. As previously stated, the purpose of this law is not to make parallel bankruptcy law or bankruptcy proceedings similar to that of the law. It is a procedure which should not be referred to the principle of bankruptcy. In a particular case, it is unthinkable that it could be expected to preserve the activity of the debtor without allowing the paying of suppliers of which these continuations of business, or which would be the meaning of this law, which would be the meaning of this law if all those creditors were not allowed to settle for which it is apparent. Are we done? [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you, it is time, unfortunately time is up.]] The rest is with me, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36041	Thank you very much. We have 7 plus one, 8 replicas. The first is the honorary colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36042	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to look back on my colleague's exposure to the next thought, which is this. As the boss, A.K.A. Ivica Todorovic pulled legal 725 million kunas from Agrokor. By Agrokor's societies, they are all essentially connected and dependent on each other. And now what's going on? One of these companies made losses, the other made profits. The logic of the competition is that the companies that make the profits cover the losses of the companies that create the deficit. But what did the boss do? The owner of the losses, i.e. those of the loss-making companies, covered them with the responsibilities and the profits they were earning, so these profit-making parts of the concerts channeled it vertically up and each year the profits were paid even though Agrokor was essentially in losses. And that's the scariest subject in this whole story. So Ivica Todorovic pulled in 5 years 725 million kuna profits. With that gain he cleaned his castle of mortgages and what's going on? It means how he explained Tony Soprano on his show, i.e. In the Sopranos series, he explained this way that his business model is such that money goes up without saying what goes vertically down. And he actually ruined both suppliers and all the other believers and workers who now don't know whether they're alive or dead, what happens to them, whether they get paid. And I'm saying, instead of being that. What's the problem is no one's questioning what he's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36043	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36044	Comrade Pernar, why didn't you file criminal charges if you know that Ivica Todorovic has illegally withdrawn funds from his company Well, now you say it's illegal. [[Pernar: It is the legal way and it is the greatest.../]] How did he rob it? [[Intruder Pernar: Legally robbed...]] If it's legal, then he didn't rob it. So the point of this whole story is, I know very well the ownership structure of both companies and holding companies, that is, the branch of the company that's in the Netherlands because I've been trying to get into the whole case so I can even know what we're talking about. The point is that there are competent institutions to deal with this. What is our mission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to find a solution for all these suppliers and all employees who are being fired. That's what our mission is. And this other thing has to be solved, but we can't handle it. So I told you the case in Italy where the owner ended up in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36045	Okay. Second replica, dear colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36046	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ninčević, you are in your replica, I suppose they did this and wrote by the legal experts of MOST these answers to Mrs. Professor, so what you are now, because if they are then I guess you should take that as a fact. So there's no question at all. I don't think so, of course, but what I'm thinking is what I'd like you to tell me is basically what you want at the Most. So your president said the other day he wanted the state to take responsibility for Agrokor and today he said he wouldn't submit to the amendments so the law would pass. Your president is the other day, and the president of the Parliament who has not been here all day today has said that, that he has reported as a citizen on the basis of newspaper inscriptions, it is an innovation, new in the political spectrum, I think in the world I have not seen it anywhere that on the basis of information from the media, which is later denied by the president of a parliament, submits a criminal application against the administration but the one who worked with that administration and now sits in the Croatian government and says there is no reason to change it. The Croatian public is confused with the messages from MOST, it often looks in a way that we like each other, what to say and there are no concrete things and suggestions. So, give it here to the Croatian public and not to your colleagues Bulju, tell the Croatian public and not to your colleagues what you want, because people are not aware of it. And one more thing I'd like to say here, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President. I'd like you to call one of the ministers or we'll be looking for a break on behalf of the club because with all due respect to the Minister of Economy's assistant, we don't think this is right. Here someone from the ministerial level should suggest whether the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Minister or Minister should be present in the assembly while we discuss this. If that doesn't happen, we'll be looking for a break and we'll discuss it here until someone gets here, if it's due tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36047	Thank you very much. We've already taken certain actions to get one of the government's authorised representatives, but you can always look for a break and work until early morning. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36048	My colleague Maras, therefore, I think it is quite clear that the objective of the MOST and this government is to find a solution to how to resuscitate possible, i.e. how to prevent possible economic collapse in the case of financial difficulties of any of the ten system companies, and as far as the case is concerned, since I see that you and Agrokora have made it clear that we want to find a solution for all employees who are being fired as well as the settlement of suppliers, and that you are reading and believing all kinds of newspaper signs. Well, if I believed the papers, I'd be thinking for sure now if you really were the Minister of the Century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36049	Thank you very much. Now it's the third in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36050	It's okay, kid. It's a joke. It's never enough. So, I'd just like to ask you a question because I'm not commenting on MOST because I'm in the corrosive, so I totally opted out of the MOST comment. So I'm just wondering why you didn't start by telling me who those ten companies were? You've just mentioned 10 companies. Can you please tell me which ten other companies are still entering this law? Yes, you, you. I didn't hear it right. You can count it for me. No, no, but is that your problem now? Yeah, I can ask a question. I didn't hear. I know I may be out of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm only taking five seconds if you can count it, please. ... Well, let's hear about those ten companies. [[You can't hear Ninčević-Lesandric.]] I didn't hear it right. What are they? [[Invader Ninčević-Lesandric: So 10 system companies.]] But what are they? Names please. ... But I'm sorry, but which ten companies do I care about? ... [[You can't hear Ninčević-Lesandric.]] Please, I can't formulate the question because I haven't heard what companies are? [[You can't hear Ninčević-Lesandric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36051	Hey, buddy Donkey, let me help you. You ask the question, then the colleague will be able to answer the replicas. Okay? Okay. Here's the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36052	So, 10 companies that are of systemic importance to the Republic of Croatia are who have more than 5,000 employees, and given the financial available reports, I think you can look at what companies they are if you're interested in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36053	The fourth is the distinguished colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36054	Thank you very much. My fellow Ninčević-Lesandric, I wonder if you think listening to you now is your constituent in Sinj a small entrepreneur figured out what good this law will do you? I don't think so. In fact, it was realized once again that this is a law that does not protect jobs, that this is a law that does not protect small producers, which is not protected by small suppliers, that it is a law that protects the boss, large managers and large capital. And that is why, in the SDP, we in our proposal, which we say that the urgent amendments to the bankruptcy law do exactly what this law does not do – job security, the urgent rescue of the food industry and maintenance of the tourist season, and workers seem more protected than it seems in this way. You were talking about trust. Well, that's the problem. Is it really worth the proverb that the people have the power they deserve? Unfortunately, the citizens of Croatia do not have such power at the moment. In that government, you're participating, and I'm curious as to how you're explaining that we have a government that actually has a set of lobbyists lobbying for the INA and MOL, like the finance minister that actually this government is just a passing station in which to protect the interests of Agrokor. We have a minister that you supported by a plagiarizer who actually protects a set of plagiarists in the government. And we have at the end of our prime minister, where this is a one-way station like that reality show where the intern plays and waits for his seat on the European Commission. Do Croatian citizens really deserve such a government where you are also participating?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36055	I'll answer. Of all your attempts at political points at what I really think is important, and these are jobs and suppliers, and if you have read this law in detail at least once, then you have seen that this is the law that is trying to prevent this worst, or darkest scenario from happening. And to ask whether these citizens deserve to be in this situation today. We have a beautiful state, we have so much potential, but unfortunately we have had governments like this before this that have done so much damage to this country that I am simply standing by to think urgently about imposing penalties for the implementation of wrong economic policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36056	Okay. Fifth replica, dear colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36057	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ninčević, you read well, but unfortunately I must conclude that you are a political analphabeta. In fact, you're saying you need to introduce criminal responsibility for a failed economic policy, and at the same time you don't realize that you're part of that policy. And you, in fact, if we were to translate your thought correctly, you actually want to prosecute yourself, you cannot take down the responsibility that you are part of that policy, you support Mr. Todorovic, not the Living Wall, MOST. You support the collection of tolls, electricity, water, you celebrate the NATO entry that asks us to force young people to serve the military deadline to become cannon meat in Ukraine tomorrow or elsewhere. The NATO that's asking us to double the weapons funds, and we don't have the money, and the question is, why do we need that weapon? You support Minister Maric, who left the desolation in Agrokor and who predicted that Croatia is in charge of 172 billion kuna over the next three years. You can't say you don't have anything to do with it. If there's a crime like you say exists, you from MOST are accomplices, you can't amnesty from it. The only way you could have turned your back on HDZ was if you still got there. If you could do it last year and you had a valid reason, do it now because this law has nothing to do with economic logic. This law is purely political. He protects politicians who have brought Croatia into the state it is, Croatia not just one company. Please wake up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36058	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36059	I certainly don't support Mr. Todorovic, and I'm sure it doesn't support the entire club MOST. And we all know that the president of the Most has filed criminal charges against Mr. Todorovic, so that's another proof if you didn't happen to notice him that we don't support what you call him boss. And the other thing is, I said you should punish the wrong policies that have been going on for the past 26 years. I do not view this law as a wrong policy because I am an economist, I have studied it well, and I am aware of what its advantages and disadvantages are and how much it can help suppliers or a stable economy of the Republic of Croatia right now. It is understandable to me that you are not an economist and that you find it difficult to understand this, but at least look at some other cases of other countries that have implemented similar specific laws when they have had financial difficulties with their system important companies on their market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36060	Thank you very much. The next replica, distinguished counterpart Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36061	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues. I'm an economist just like you, and I'm going to try to ask you some very few questions because in fact, your debate, although I disagree with it, but I think it was good because you were just talking about the law you didn't politicize, you went to the whole explanation, and now I'd like to ask you a question. So you said that this law protects small and medium-sized believers and that they will be involved in a decision on demand through the possibility of a settlement. Now, one is law, one is theory, the other is practice. Now, what's going to happen, unfortunately, in practice? Now I'm wondering if you think it or not to answer me if you won't, that's not what the law says. So, when we build a wall around Agrokor, which was spoken several times this morning by the prime minister, and in one way you said, or when this law applies, it means that the existing situation is frozen and only newly created debts are serviced. So the company can continue to operate the only one who can give the company funds to keep it running, that they can get new goods, that they can start doing their business and still be banks, so only the bank has so much money to shoot them now in Agrokor that Agrokor can continue to work. Now the newly created debts that the new banks are making into payment priorities, with these banks, they will continue to take goods from some suppliers. Now watch what it looks like in practice. With the little suppliers, that government commissioner will call them and say, "Look, if you want to work with us, you have to write off the 70% of the previous debt, otherwise we won't be working, they won't take the goods from you." Then they will unfortunately agree because we have this practice over the past years, and 15 years in Croatia that Agrokor has been pushing small firms and they will unfortunately have to agree if they want to work and there will lose much of their claims while the big ones will settle down. And on the other hand, we have a part of the little ones that can't take it, who don't have any more capacity at all now that Here's just one sentence, Vice President, please, that no longer have the capacity to continue working with Agrokora further because they are already exhausted, let alone wait another 15 months to reach their funds. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] And that's why this law doesn't protect those little ones, and that's why he's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36062	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36063	I'm just studying this law and I think it's he who's guarding these small ones for the reason that through the settlement, he's giving them the opportunity to convert debt into capital, and the rest of it that doesn't exist in the company because we're assuming the debt will be more capitalized. What? ... What makes you think that if there are funds of subsidized loans that can be dealt with. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I believe that you are wrong and that this is exactly the only way out of everything that we see today, if this law is activated, that is, if it comes to the activation of the law, which is that suppliers, or creditors, are calming down, and that the business of the company continues, and that employees are not being fired. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And at least that's not a favor, not a big one, not a Todorovic, not a private person, that's what I was going to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36064	Thank you. The seventh replica, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36065	My colleague Ninčević, your statement on the law turned into a number of discussions, i.e. replicas, and we see many here who are in Parliament alone, now MPs have their own clubs solely because of what MOST has protected national interests and we see that here they are now trying to make some expressions that have no bearing on who they are and what they are, impute us and Todorovic, and that they have robbed Croatian society and so far's policies imposed on our shoulders, on us on our backs. But I'm asking you one question, it's about systematic companies, so there are 10 of them in Croatia. We have a significant national company that is hostilely taken from the Croatian state. We also had a verdict, unfortunately the Constitutional Court killed, that's the INA. INA's in big trouble, we all know that. Can this law be applied at this point on INA? Here's you from the expert aspect because we think here and we know what the relationship is and the refineries, can this law be applied to this very important company, i.e. Company that is strategically important for Croatia on INA to Croatian Government, i.e. The state takes over the management of the company due to the INA problem, which caused MOL with the Croatian policies implemented. Here's a quick question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36066	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36067	I'm not sure if we understand each other but I will repeat this law and situation when, therefore, the situation when this law responds to system companies that are in financial difficulties, which are companies that have over 5,000 employees and a debt of over 7.5 billion kuna and these are companies that are therefore in the Republic of Croatia. So this law applies to all 10,...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36068	And the last replica is the esteemed fellow Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36069	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Ninčević, it is clear from your presentations, at least to me, and if you have read as one colleague has noticed, I am pleased that you have read part of the exhibition and I would like some of the other colleagues to also read less from their heads and... read some constructive initiatives that would possibly support in the Assembly but there are no colleagues, so I guess they'll hear another time. So MOST Independent Lists supports the adoption of this law because we believe that, as you said, we do not protect ourselves from a particular entrepreneur, but rather protect the Croatian economic system. And that's where I would agree today with the president of the SDP who said that every lost day costs us 100 jobs, not in numbers, but in the sense that he's waiting for us, that it costs us a certain number of jobs, the collapse of the economic system, so I'm surprised now by my colleagues from the SDP when I hear their replicas that they won't support this law, that they're saying that we need to include new provisions in the bankruptcy law, or it's not as important to them as much as content but form. I think they're looking for a way to actually reason not to vote for this law. As far as we are concerned, I think our attitude towards him is very clear, that our attitude towards Mr. Todorovic is also clear by the move of the President of the Most and the President of the Croatian Parliament who is not here today because of the disease and I will not be here tomorrow either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36070	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36071	First of this reading, so I read 11 remarks of the law that I received literally 5 minutes before the presentation, and I felt it was good to read something that everyone was invited to all day and I had it in my hand. And secondly, I would just turn the story around that the opposition is in power and that they are faced with this situation in order to carry out themselves and I am convinced that we would also study other laws from neighbouring countries and models that similar situations have been resolved beyond our country's borders and that we would quickly and quickly gather a team of experts and realize that we have two options and that it is to let it come to a collapse and another option is to seek a solution to how we will save small suppliers and leave jobs and, in doing so, to get the owner out of the ownership structure for 365 days, and that the competent institutions for which we have already initiated the procedure solve that part of the influence of therefore the negative influence of the owners on the business of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36072	Thank you. This is what we're done with the replicas and we're moving on to the Club of Representatives of HNS and HSU, the esteemed colleague Goran Beus-Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36073	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Someone has already mentioned today that this is an extremely big crisis, perhaps even the largest in terms of the functioning of the entire system because the whole system is actually resting on the economy from the Homeland War to today. I don't know if that's true, but the fact is, we wouldn't even be discussing this law if it hadn't burned to the nail. What we cannot accept as an opposition is an attempt to share responsibility for this situation with us. Generally speaking, there seems to be no government that could have said in the last 15 years that it has not looked kindly to certain processes that have naturally taken place in the sphere of private but possibly in the sphere of public in a large group such as Agrokor. Moreover, several governments have been sitting or still sitting ministers who worked in Agrokor. She was always a winged woman that Agrokor has his own people in every Croatian government. We had a situation that even the former governor of the CNB after leaving the post had entered into a business relationship and it was important for him to have a very important business relationship with Agrokora. And as the mastodon grew up, some of them turned their heads because they hoped that a big player such as the one who became a regional player would actually be the bearer of economic development, and in fact they were turning their heads from a lot of other things that could be called mixing and unfair competition, killing small entrepreneurs. It all happened in the shadow of the great Agrokor. Let's just remember that a network of small kiosks has disappeared in Croatia. The time it took for private helicopters in Milan to buy expensive purses and do shopping and act like princes has passed, those times have passed. But it seems to me that the price of all this will be very high. And whatever we write in this law, we won't be able to prevent the greater damage, it's already done, and it was bleached even last year that something is going on that is extraordinary and that needs to be responded to. I can't believe that the CNB on the one hand, the Ministry of Finance on the other hand, and the IRS on the third hand had no information that the concert had begun to borrow from its own suppliers. It's not hundreds of thousands, it's hundreds of millions of kunas. And when a concert of such a type as Agrokor began to beg its suppliers for the loan of money and when he publicly announced that he had not accepted a union loan to everyone it was clear why, because of very strict conditions because the creditors no longer wanted to grant funds under more favourable or ordinary conditions because they understood the risk. Everyone knew everything but the Croatian government. And as I said today, if we are already treating Moodys, then we are witnessing from month to month that the agency has been warning everyone, and that means the Croatian government that something very bad is happening because on January 2nd, it crashed the credit rating from B2 to B3. 24.2. which was the deadline for taking the gravity of the situation, the credit rating was declared absolutely negatively perspective. We were supposed to wait for 29.3rd, and that's past, it seems to me Wednesday that the rating agencies bring Agrokor down into the mud and say that it's no longer a useful rating but that it's a CAA1 with a negative perspective. And only two days after that, the Croatian government sets out a proposal for this law. And instead of meeting us just the same day after, so here we are on Wednesday, and the law will not be passed today, and probably not tomorrow, because the government has to show itself about the amendments that have been filed under this law. In the meantime, the opposition, not a month ago, to the full voice of shouting, be responsible, monitor the process, engage as March masters of economic development in Croatia, not in a way that destroys the existing ownership structure, to bring down the foundations of the legal system by some extraordinary measures that will destroy the principles on which they rest among others and the principles on which this law is written, but rather as a mediator. Be right at the table all the most important stakeholders, so also bankers and suppliers and control the situation. As far as I know, Prime Minister Plenkovic has not met with any key stakeholders in this story personally until today. It's this relationship that's actually ignoring. This morning we had a chance to see his extremely arrogant attack on every criticism from the opposition, the persuasive way he talked about it calling us not to take over his part of the responsibility is something that is not quite even this situation and not this problem. First of all, if dialogue is sought, then dialogue must be established within the ruling coalition. One coalition partner's head can't talk for a month and the leader can't talk for the other. There has already been a discrepancy and that there is no unique approach, salting and some ideas that directly threatened the possibility of a constructive solution to this crisis. And until today, so on. It's been lost for a month, and we need to know and admit it. We may not be able to return it, but we are also warning that a similar thing can happen to other companies that are extremely important to us, which are Petrochemia, this is Borovo where they cannot pay their wages, that is Djuro Djakovic. How many times do we have to do it again, and we can say it today, today is April 5th. We mentioned these companies here five times today. How long will we wait for someone to remember and these are companies owned by the Republic of Croatia that there are problems that these companies can lead to the end. And that people also work there and that these factories also produce very important things for us, as companies in the Agrokora system do. In this case, unfortunately, those people's sayings are mirrored that a jar or a jug goes to the water until it breaks. Finance Minister Zdravko Maric in early January, and then in late January, he claimed that the government was familiar with everything and that he was concerned about it, of course, not singleing out Agrokor especially because he then said that relativeizing sentence as well as other companies in the Republic of Croatia, and this is April. From January to April, the government has failed to come up with a way to constructively set up and help solve this problem. Of course there's a risk when you're making decisions, but it's the government that has to make decisions, worse than that is an inaction and the government has really done something wrong here, hasn't done anything for months, noe-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e. Unfortunately, she couldn't, and she won't, and now it's completely clear. If the government had been more involved in this, and had started the process of calming fear a month ago, providing certain political guarantees and creating a framework in which talks between the administration, on the other hand, suppliers and third parties would have been much, much better today. What we certainly want to achieve at this time when it is already clear that the ruling will vote this law, and in many ways it is based on nothing but common sense, it is a state interventional pair of excellence, it is anti-liberal from the beginning to the end, it interferes in the free market's most harsh way possible, but when the HNS and HSU Club have already come up with several amendments which will try to make some of the solutions covered by this legislation conditionally correct. As far as the solution in Article 12 is concerned, where it is said that an extraordinary commissioner cannot, without the agreement of a religious council, dispose of assets worth more than 3.5 million kuna, we also propose to restrict his right of disposal in all transactions of more than 10 million kuna without knowledge and approval of not only the religious council but also of the advisory body. We will also propose that the advisory body of the explicit be structured in a way that has two representatives of banks, one representative of small suppliers, one representative of larger suppliers and, of course, one representative of workers. We also think that this solution in Article 21, where it is mentioned who has the right to request the opening of the procedure, is completely illogical because the list includes members of the board or board of directors of the shareholder society at the end of the already existing solution that says that legal agents can do so. What does that mean now? From where the discretionary right of a board member or board member where there is a legal representative to, say, ask the government for something like this at all, it's a completely excess solution. Also, if we really want to protect small suppliers like the mouthful of many today, then we suggest that priority claims should also be included in all those who regularly were suppliers of goods before the procedure was launched. Because we now have a situation that in this crisis there are suppliers who in the best possible faith not only for the future their own but that Agrokor can survive first of all Konzum, deliver goods and full shelves and thus ensure cashflow, thus ensuring that there is no payment at all tomorrow. They're small producers, they're suppliers of those goods that have shorter durations, they're the ones that produce primarily food and it needs to be recognised and it needs to be approved. So if we really think we're going to protect small suppliers with this law, then we have to come up with a few solutions like these. Otherwise they'll all fail, they're all somewhere to introduce technology or... The construction of the plant was delayed and now the water is up to their throats. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]] Therefore, the HNS Club has released the amendment in the process and we ask the ruling to agree in this respect to this correction of conditions and that this law is relaxed in one more applicable form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36074	Thank you very much. We have six replicas. The first is a replica of a respected colleague, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36075	Thank you very much. Comrade Beus Richembergh, I absolutely agree with your debate from the beginning that bad suggestions and bad ideas should not be supported and no responsibility should be shared. And on the other hand, I don't think this law is even possible in that way to fix it. If the lawyers involved have found... the reason they think they're going to fall for the constitutional procedure. If everyone in Croatia but just everyone, big, come on, not everyone, probably HDZ representatives not but the vast majority of people in Croatia sees that this is directed exclusively in one direction, to protect a narrow circle of people and to decide to put there tomorrow by state interventionism a person who will manage the Croatian economy in front of politics and not the court. Because when we talk about solutions from the world, when we talk about solutions from the world, when we talk about an American case and an example of that court there determines and the plan needs all the believers to accept. That's not the case in this law. It's impossible to fix. This will lead to even more chaos, you can get the money to decide, you can't get the money. We have seen how autonomous HDZ knows in the past to decide who will be blessed and who will be left without anything. I don't want it in Croatia. And all citizens, I believe they don't want it in Croatia. The MOST colleagues keep the fig in their pocket and basically hold the HDZ stand. I guess that's what everybody sees. In this case, they're holding the HDZ stand. And tomorrow, when people don't have salaries, they'll be more responsible than HDZ because they could stop it and they didn't. And not these folk reports by Petrov, who probably today, this is why she caught the temperature that she didn't have to discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36076	Thank you, colleague Maras. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36077	Comrade Maras, I could generally agree with you, but on one condition that the Constitutional Court acts quickly and efficiently with us. Unfortunately, it's quite clear, this law will be passed. It will certainly start to be used next week. In this situation, there's not much time to wait, there's a lot of time to save what's to be saved. And if so, and if we know that the practice of this law will certainly take some time and then just as long as the Constitutional Court challenges it, then that time in which the most important decisions will be made should be directed in a more normal and functional way. This is pure pragmatism, but we can't act like nothing's happening or that it's none of our business because me and no one else here but neither the employees nor the believers of Agrokora have any of it if we just point our finger at the ruling one alone. It's a fact, they're responsible but it won't solve any problems right now, and we don't have to skip it, but we should try to act proactively. Since we got where we are. And we have come into a situation after 20 and a few years to finally say the emperor is naked and that that golden calf that many worshipped is not gold. But also that those media who had been silent for years were silent from their own financial pragmatism because they were aware that only this golden chick could get that golden egg and the golden coke was giving.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36078	Thank you. The second replica is a esteemed colleague of Pernar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36079	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to point to one part, or segment of the whole story, which unfortunately has not been discussed, and that's next. The shares of Agrokora will in their nature become worthless because the debt of the concert is greater than the value of its assets and eventually, will come to, let's say under the quotes of the reset or theirs, let's paintly say... And the question arises what happens then to the shares of all these funds, pension funds that have invested in these. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll read just one piece of news. Most of Ledo's shares signed up for retirement. Ledo announced today that with 100% success, the issue of new shares was carried out. In the capital increase process, all 93,000 750 new shares offered at the price of 8 thousand kuna were entered and paid, totalling 750 million kuna. 70% of all the shares were purchased by pension funds. At present, the price of Ledo has dropped from 8 to 4000, 200 kuna. So she cut herself in half. And it will come to the fact that the simple assets of pension funds, i.e. future pensions of our citizens, will be dramatically less in the context of the amount they needed from that voluntary pension insurance. And as it is said “news before it happens” that is, before something happens, I am now warning all the citizens who are preparing for them with pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36080	Dear fellow Richembergh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36081	My colleague Pernar, I daren't answer your line at all because unlike you who wrote very recognized books on finance, I don't know anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36082	And there it is, and it's a replica. Dear fellow Horvath, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36083	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Beus, don't ask for a share of responsibility, it was a sentence you said from this constituency speech and the answer to that line of yours is very simple, given how you reacted on Friday and yours until yesterday's coalition partner. The fact is, there's no division and no responsibility. You turned your back and simply escaped your responsibility. There was a responsibility left on the rulers, and we accepted it. And the fact is, you claim there is no unique approach. If there was a unique approach at this point then the position and opposition would have sat together at the table yesterday or the day before yesterday if this wasn't a crystallized model crystallized it and today's debate wouldn't even exist, but at this time at home we'd be drinking a cold glass of wine and watching TV. But colleague Beus your sentence all knew except the Government returned me in 2014 and 2015 when the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia for two years was in the trash of these same agencies without concrete proposals, without imagination, without finding a solution. Now look at what you said yourself. On 2 January, the first intervention, on 24 February, the second intervention and co-worker Dalic with his intervention and with his team from 24 February to make a proposal by today on 5 April, consults the proposal with trade law experts, with constitutional law experts. Today he is here ahead of us has passed the government procedure in many months. Do you know how many months it's been? One, two, three. [[Intruder Jandroković: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36084	Thank you, fellow Horvato. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36085	Comrade Horvat, if I come to you a month ago and tell you that our joint house has been wronged, that something needs to be done, and you take your hand off, and then after a month you come and say that the roof collapsed and you ask me to fix it together, then there's nothing else I can tell you but that you ignored it for a month. What surprises me is, I really don't know why you think so about Deputy Prime Minister Dalic. You really think she's been writing this law since February 24th? She's much more successful and more capable, and she didn't need more than three days just needed three versions. If it had started on February 24th, they would have told me about this on March 5th, not April 5th.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36086	So the replica was reported by Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36087	Thank you very much. You've made your proposal. You had a constructive proposal, and I accept that. During your discussion, however, you mentioned that in the last month, it has been mentioned that Noevski is in the past month, i.e. that a month had been lost and that the Noahish was actually acting, that there was a head in the sand. As you've been commenting for many years, you've been a parliamentary representative and what you think about where the whole story of the fall of the boss is actually going, and I agree with you that they've all tattooed him on the shoulder, and now everyone's credentials, it's simply known where his place should be and his property what he did to the Croatian people with the help of Croatian political elites. However, you were a parliamentary representative and in the term of 2014 more precisely here I will quote to you a statement by Zoran Milanovic at the time when Mercator bought it and is thought to have reinvested at that time and that it began to be the end of a concert that destroyed numerous suppliers, producers and before its end. So I'll quote you a statement and then the government, i.e. 2014 exactly 14.6.2014. So Milanovic then said of Mercator's purchase: "I think it's a good thing for Croatia and the spread of Croatian production, we will all benefit from it." The prime minister said about the sale of Mercator Agrokor. Is it really possible for the state institutions, the state security services to allow one Todorovic to do so without any control so that 500m euros are then charged with buying Mercator and therefore going beyond the borders. Today, too, we are in a situation where the Croatian economy's entire economy has been destroyed, i.e. Ready to collapse Just a quick question of what do you think was then in the sand like the head of all who were then in Parliament and government? [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Thank you. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36088	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36089	You know that old joke when Pop drowned, so when they protested that those who were present didn't save him, they defended themselves and said that we didn't, we told him, "Give him your hand." And he says you shouldn't have told him Pope, give him your hand. He didn't learn to give, he learned to take. It's very similar to you. As the thing went uphill, everyone watched and loved the car going up, so our little flock and the badness that was edging perhaps with some sense of superiority because here we are buying a large Slovenian firm and large Croatian patriots shut their mouths because these are the real Croatian husbands who are able to transfer our economic interest across the border. Everything would be beautiful and wonderful. Of course there was coverage, that there was a capital-value standoff, in the ability of the system to repay it. But she's got an illustration of bigger eyes than her mouth. And that's what happened here. So whoever was driven by greed, and the greed we know is one of the great sins did not end well in the end. Whether Mercator's acquisition was a trigger or not, I don't know it, but I remember that Kutline famous that it must always turn its pedals on the bike, because if you stop, you're falling.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36090	Thank you very much. The next replica is representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36091	... You said that the government had been late for a month and that there was time and knowledge, determination, responsibility to go to the rescue of Agrokor earlier because, as one journalist said, the collapse of Agrokora is the biggest Croatian defeat since Croatia's independence exists, because it is the very fact that the fate of Agrokor, and thus the Croatian economy will make a good decision by foreign banks, speaks enough. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] However, there is a member in that government who is not only three or four months, such as the rest of the government, but has been in it for 16 months. So I'm interested in my colleague Beus whether you think that such a man who is a question of whether he represented the interests of Croatia at all in this government, protected Croatian finances or protected and hid data in Agrokor may still be in that government or whether the Croatian government needs some Alvarez III to restructure the Croatian government so that we don't continue to be grumbled with these problems, or unfortunately it seems to be true that the historical saying, who made the difference, pitied. Agrokora was closed by that circle that began in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36092	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36093	I really want to believe that Mr. Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance who is in the government of the Republic of Croatia, but let us not forget the official duty of the HDZ mandate at a time between the two governments came from Agrokor, so I want to believe that he knew nothing about the dubiosis in Agrokor. But it wouldn't be good for him if my belief were fulfilled because it would actually testify if it wasn't for a good job there, so it would open up suspicion that he wasn't working here either, and then it would lead him to a lot of trouble, and I'd probably have to agree to this variant of yours, which is to answer the question positively, or to respond positively to your call to leave that government. But let me just say one more thing that testifies how ugly things have been done from all sides. As you know, Mercator entered the Republic of Croatia, so he bought freedom from the Great Gore, and its entire sales network. And when Agrokor finally bought Mercator, then our Competition Protection Agency said we had to lower the concentration, so in Velika Gorica, we lost all the neighborhood stores only five consummated. That's what this acquisition looked like when it comes to our particular interests in our neighborhood in our city. It didn't end well. But believe me, Agrokor paid like a goodwill every store that he later closed and that's nakarada because you're buying something that you have to give up later.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36094	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation by Agent Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36095	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Beus, I also disagree with your opinion that this was an attempt to share responsibility with the opposition because I think it was about wanting to take place as always in these 20 years when important events took place for the country since its arrival in the EU, NATO and others and now that the state economy has been practically threatened I think it was an attempt to make this a non-party and politicizing thing that is very important to the state. So you can't do this I don't think it was an attempt to share any responsibility, the opposition also has its own responsibility and important state issues cannot be politicised and partyed. I think it was that attempt, you have the right to interpret it normally the way you see it and how you think it's best for you. I just don't think the situation is such that it would be good to get some points or think you'd get some points on this. I also think that the government, you said 24.2. that it started 5.3. would be over, that it was lost for a month, and I think that this bill is also the result of the work of an expert team of people who can't be done in three days or five days. means that the government has worked and made a proposal that we consider to be of quality, but here you will certainly make your proposals through the amendments. You also say that it is not good for this law to interfere with the principles of the market economy which would certainly not be good and I would never support it, but you are proposing to me what I have now remembered, an even more rigorous mix through amendments to this law. How is that just mixing up? We are in a situation now if the partners agree, there will be no interference at all. So if we had 15 days ago, the law wouldn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36096	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36097	So, fellow Sanader, that there was enough desire to reach an agreement between the position and the opposition, then Prime Minister Plenkovic would have called on the heads of the opposition parties a month ago for talks, not Friday after the cabinet's meeting. So that's the first thing. I see it only unfortunately as an attempt to inform out of good faith the opposition which was written in the bill of law that passed through the government. That's not enough. The opposition's task is that everything that comes from the government flips over, searches, clogs a hundred times, not to enjoy the fact that there's a lot of missouts in there, but to miss out on your IDs. For according to the old man that man and cargo know more than man ought to keep all eyes on each other and opposition. And you know that the dioptria on the opposition okulars is much more severe than with bureaucrats in the government itself. You tried that yourself, you were an opposition, so you saw something well that the government didn't see. In that sense, every day pray to God for your opposition to be as severe as possible, more concentrated and more focused on what the ruling team does because then you will make fewer mistakes. If we called on the government a month ago to react immediately then it was also an invitation to sit with the heads of opposition parties and see what strategic goals are common in this whole story. And then let's make a deal if it's already such a big problem to say in advance that we're going to support quality policy. Every Friday, you can see when we vote on laws how many laws are passed even unanimously. People who watch this think that we never, ever agree on anything, and that's not true, you know that very well. Of the hundreds of laws passed in the Croatian Parliament, at least 85 are passed with a majority of over 85%. And that, that would be the same question, but if we'd responded in time, and not what we call ourselves, and you're deafening yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36098	Thank you. Here we are to the last club. On behalf of the Party's Labour and Solidarity Representatives Club, Croatia's intergenerational solidarity, Reformists and Independent Representatives, Rezimir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36099	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State and Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to be very brief. The concentration is already dropping, we've heard countless times even repetitions in debates and replicas. I just want to point out the following. As far as we know about the real situation in Agrokor, I'm not so sure. I listened carefully to both my colleague Pernar and my colleague Lovrinović. I mean, I trust that information, I trust them but it's a question of what to do. What my colleague Beus said, I totally agree with that. 15 and more than 15 years, and more than 15 years I was a part and a living witness. Everything you called the boss here today in some debates has been applauded. Many civil servants came from the Agrokor system and many civil servants ended up in the Agrokor system. And it was one string. But could this have stopped? We can talk about a month, two days, three days, but the problem is that it lasts for years, which we created a monopoliest, we created a monopoliest precisely on that detail that is very sensitive, which is small agricultural economies, agricultural producers, food producers. That's where we created the problem. Who's to blame? I think our system is entirely to blame, a system of regulatory mechanisms that created a monopoly from the People's Bank to others. And they can't, they can't avoid that responsibility. And now we've reached the fire range. To the kind of fire we have to do something about. Inaction would actually be the biggest anti-constitutional action, inaction. And now there are two possibilities. As scripts, Prime Minister Plenkovic spoke of them this morning. The screenplay A, the believers, the debtor, the master, let them solve it, and they have brought the counselors. They're working it out. So if they solve the law, it won't go into effect, but I just don't believe it. If the owner brings in advisers, they will not protect neither national interest nor protect small suppliers nor domestic creditors, they will protect the boss's interest and that is a fact. So it seems to me that only variant B, which is the adoption of this law that as a domestic sword, we know we're talking about Agrokor regardless of 10 system companies, we're talking about Agrokor, he's current today, but he can be host to the sword for others, we're talking about Agrokor in a way that the state has to interfere with the protection of small suppliers because I don't trust the boss's advisors. I don't think so. He'll protect the boss, protect the boss. And it has just announced this law and led to the reaction of Agrokor, or the boss, to include external associates, external advisers as soon as possible. So I'm up for variant B, let's get the law and go to all the risks. I believe, at the very least, that the government has given good thought to the risks that can arise from this, that it has also given good thought to the question of the constitutional character of this law. But let's let the Constitutional Court evaluate, shall we? Make a joke, two lawyers, three legal opinions. So I can trust one person and I can trust another that I'm not a lawyer. We therefore allow the Constitutional Court to make a decision in the event of a constitutional action and the Government must be aware that it also takes huge risks. But we as a Parliament must be aware that, in future and in further discussions, we are seeking the responsibility of the regulator, we are seeking the responsibility of the National Bank, and we are seeking the responsibility of the State's attorney. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36100	Thank you. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36101	Mr. Varda says they're looking for the responsibility of the regulatory authorities. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. HANFA was to monitor the factoring of companies, however, legislator, or Minister Maric, who had the parliamentary majority together with Mr Vardo avoided the sign of amendments to the factoring law that HANFA oversees the factoring of companies, to know how exposed they are to the boss, i.e. Ivica Todorovic. And so here she is in this case is not a failure of HANFA, HANFA would have monitored if she had been in position. But the law was deliberately made so that it went under the grain. Here's another example. What I keep saying. The Accounting Act has only been amended to submit financial reports on 30.4. And for that reason, we are constantly dealing with a 16 billion kuna long supplier from September last year instead of having current data for 31.12 last year, etc. etc. You say the regulator should be held accountable. Here is Minister Marić, today he is not here, and he was headed by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and is still headed by the owner of an enormous loan of nearly 280 million kuna, knowing what the situation is there. So whoever is to resign is Minister Maric, and these regulators are all in government service. The problem is that the government is covering them in crime, the problem is that the government is creating a space for crime and these regulators are only operating in the defined frameworks, and you, Mr. Varda, are supporting this government that ultimately allowed this catastrophic situation to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36102	Thank you. The next replica is representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36103	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vard, you said we created a monopoliest precisely on the small ones, and these are farmers and that's right, you said it well, and that's what I said today during the day that basically in the last 16 years thousands of jobs have been missing in companies that have been shut down right in these smallest farmers and small ones. Because Agrokor didn't pay his dues in time, people couldn't live anymore, they basically fell apart and then Agrokor took them over and put them in his concert and later people started working for him. And it was tolerated by the state because Agrokor was great, etc. Now that's exactly what I said later. This law when creating a wall around Agrokor, as the prime minister said this morning, freezes the existing situation and only new obligations are recognised, will still be those small ones that still exist, who are still working with Agrokor, because the commissioner who is to be told by the government if you want to continue working with Agrokor, will write off 70% of the debt. And if they want to work with them at all, they will be forced to do so, or spoken out. And the other thing, one part of them won't be able to do that because they're already out of power and I can't give new goods now, let alone wait 15 months to get their own money. And just taught the experiences of the last 16 years when the big guy starts pressing some kid and that kid's forced, because there's just no other way out, but he can only distribute his goods through Agrokor is in danger in the future. And that's why this law sucks. Because this law has just allowed the policy to continue for the past 16 years, and this is the pressure of large ones over small ones and racketeering that they have to work by the rules of large ones. And he'll only take care of the interests of banks that can only give so much money that Agrokor continues to work at all. Here I'd really like you to comment on that with me, and that's why this law is no good from my perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36104	Thank you. Comrade Vard, please choose your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36105	I'm just the other way around. I said why those little ones and I think I'm staying with them. I was just talking about this variant B not variant A. I'm afraid of variant A precisely because of the small ones, because the foreign consultant, so the consultant of the owner of the concert, will protect the interests of the owner and the extraordinary commissioner proposed by the government and appointed by the court, so the Croatian government will take care of the small one. That's my point of view, my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36106	Thank you. Next replica representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36107	Thank you very much, Mr. Varda. In your debate, you said two lawyers, three opinions, and what if the Constitutional Court annuls the law and we do a certain period under that law, and I am convinced that the club of representatives and representatives set out in the Croatian Assembly will shorten the deadline. Because there are potentially great damages that can happen. Who's gonna pay for that? Here are the citizens watching us today and I can assure you that someone will press a constitutional suit, that this law will most likely have shortcomings, that certain activities will happen on the basis of it, and that someone will then file a claim for compensation for damages. And why would our citizens, our fellow citizens, pay for it? For what? Is that a question? So tell me how you can raise your hand to calm souls if you're not absolutely sure that the law is in line with our Constitution, as these experts are not certain about it. Well, they didn't all conspired against the government, did they? Oh, no? And people at law school and judges all explain it and say it. But Mr. Plenkovic and his colleagues from MOST want a paw on Agrokor, they want to do certain things for themselves obviously. And on the other hand, I think that Croatian citizens should not and should not pay for the damages that will result from this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36108	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36109	Dear colleague Maras. In the debate I said with all the risks the government is willing to take, I personally think and hold that this bill is in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36110	Thank you. Next replica representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36111	Thank you very much. Comrade Vard, you have also responded well, and the fact is that today we have both power and opposition here, the fact is that the opposition to our discussions is practically all day long to bury a living man, still a living man, let's transfer it to the company, and pretend that this company is really dead and that this is not helping anything. They predict it either it's over or a short life is around for a few more days and it's over. And we argue differently, and we think that, let's also call it the bill of this law and what is currently happening to some kind of therapy, that if the A therapy that is under way, and now we've been listening to Mr. Alvarez who is expressing hope that this will end up in a good direction regardless of all the difficulties and all that he's found, that we're practically in a way and we're hanging out here so that something might be at some point and we're looking for who's been giving the wrong pills to this patient for the past 20 years in terms of when we're talking about Agrokor as a company that has problems. And what do you get out of it now? Today, there are several stories about the Law on Pre-departure Deals, no matter who at the time when it was passed knew the scope and all that would come from that law as a result of the provisions of that law. No one, except for the minister who wrote this and tried to solve the problem of indifference and all those problems he encountered, and it is still in progress today and it will last and it will continue. And we say now here's one backup therapy unless the case A succeeds. They say we don't need either, this is over and they offer nothing, they really didn't offer anything except that they're angry, unsatisfactory, nobody asked them anything. So no one ever asked us anything, this prime minister at least came to the Parliament, at least called and said something. Prime Minister Milanovic never asked us anything [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Not a single problem of this country. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36112	Thank you. Comrade Ward, would you like a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36113	My colleague Boric would agree with you in many ways, but let me give you another opinion. If I were the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic wouldn't be talking to that number III today, I wouldn't. I'd like to invite Mr. Todorovic to the government. Agrokor is silent, Todorovic is silent, please welcome Mr. Todorovic on behalf of Agrokor and in his personal name as owner, explain to the people, explain to these small farmers, the OPGs, explain to his debtors what is happening to Agrokor. That's the problem. He's not even in the talent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36114	Thank you. Another replica, Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36115	Thank you very much. You were talking about the current situation in Agrokor as well as the whole day that we're all discussing, but as you comment on your relationship with the boss, you've often mentioned the boss? This whole period in the last 20 years, i.e. The beating of all the political elites we see today exclusively from all sides attack him, so he was heard more than that silence was simply tormented while he was creating his empire, while he was destroying small OPGs, farmers, economics. Now suddenly those who ruled the state were ministers, took pictures, painted themselves, their government praised the successes of Mercator's purchase, now suddenly calling people who entered politics i.e. precisely because of their incompetence they came here to Parliament. How do you comment on this relationship to the boss a year, a year and a half ago, two years ago, praises to him from all sides and today this relationship between certain and even ministers, high-ranking, very high-quality, perhaps the best of the 1990s, very often appear to the boss who beat up the Croatian economy, just with the help of their own, in Dalmatia the subsistence is said, they were loudly silent, they approved, they were directors even in HBOR's administrations in the number of these supervisory bodies? How do you comment on this relationship of those who have brought the Croatian economy into this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36116	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36117	My friend Bulj, just for a little while. We're just people. We're all bloody under the skin, we're just human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36118	Thank you. We're moving on to the first individual debate representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36119	Thank you very much. Although it's late, my concentration is at the highest possible level and I'm as fresh as we started 15 minutes ago. And I want to warn you that this law, as I said at first, is written exclusively for one company, which is now confirmed. We see the enthusiasm of individual representatives such as Mr. Boric, who says here is watching on the screen in front of the assembly what Mr. Alvarez III says. So that's the Croatian representative who's watching what he's going to do and how he says the man who's hired to do one business restructuring the company and who on that same speaker, I read it right now on the portals, says the law is good, but it needs to be done a little more operationally. It sends a message from the gentleman who came to Agrokor to do certain things and to send a message that it's the law for one company. I come to honor Mr. Alvarez and Prime Minister Plenkovic's "United" thing, Mr. Plenkovic and Mr. Alvarez sent together a message to the Croatian public today that this law was written exclusively for one company and that they did this together HDZ and MOST in its direction. "United", it's a song by Mr Alvarez. What I want to tell the Croatian public here that SDP will not allow Agrokor to become a case in a way that solves the problems of the narrow circle of people and that Croatian citizens, employees of Agrokor, suppliers, small companies, small and medium-sized enterprises are left without their own money. That's what we can't allow. It is very clear to send a message from here to Mr Plenkovic that we will show that HDZ is interesting and I am glad that the prime minister has come to hear this because here we deserve this debate to take place in this way, that Mr Plenkovic hears this that he is interestingly connected to Agrokora and that this connection, as I initially said, is made with umbilical cord. If the Croatian Prime Minister received one, I would even say the highest... in a private company, that the states together presses, speak to the Croatian public, buy in Agrokor, watch out for the first time in Konzum, it is for the first time that in the Croatian government someone called for one company to buy as if in other companies that are also Croatian citizens do not work and do not sell Croatian products. And I don't want Agrokor to fail, I don't want our people to lose their jobs, that our companies,... I apologize if it bothers you, it was a song by Mr. Plenkovic Alvarez "United", which today is also visually seen in the Croatian Government and that is essentially a show that this law was made for one company. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What I am saying is that we will not give up on the investigative committee or answer questions, Mr Plenkovic, why the factoring law has been extended in the past government by Minister Zdravko Maric. We will not give up on the question why the HBOR officials, unlike other banks, have not identified the risks that have occurred. And I wish Minister Dalic had answered today if the HBOR money had been paid, which was approved two months ago. These are Croatian taxpayers' money which is very likely and the question is when this law will be adopted will come at the expense and all these are questions that Croatian citizens deserve to hear. And today we're listening to an invitation to support something that few people in this country believe in. We can protect the company in a number of ways, we can protect it within the framework of an existing bankruptcy law with certain changes, we can do many things we unfortunately haven't done. But we've decided on state interventionism, we've decided to protect the narrow circle of people, we've decided that today Mr. Alvarez says to the question of who's running the company that he's not running the company that he's brought here to keep one task and to perform one task but there's still legitimate and legal company leadership. I don't know why you didn't invite Mr. Todorovic to talk, why Alvarez and not Todorovic? So Todorovic still owns and manages the company. Today certain changes have been made in companies within Agrokor. These are questions that interest Croatian citizens. And we need to be aware that people are looking at this and expecting these answers and that nothing will be stored under the carpet and that we must not allow it as an opposition no matter how angry and expected support that we cannot get. Because he can't get it, because we don't want to share responsibility with you and with the one that created the problem. Because I'm sure there was a little more responsibility to detect the problem before, that there was no interesting connection between the HDZ and Agrokora so that the problem would be detected before, that fewer people would be threatened and that they would now have fewer problems. And I'm sorry that our people are watching right now and shaking to see if they're getting paid. And I'm sorry our suppliers have blocked accounts today, but it's not the opposition's fault. And you can't say, especially not you from the MOST holding the HDZ stand, you can't say they're all responsible. The problem arose when HDZ had responsibility, the problem culminated when HDZ and MOST had responsibilities. And that's why the SDP can't share that responsibility, nor can it want to share it with HDZ and the Most. What we promise the Croatian public is that we will give them all the answers. 15, 16 MPs in the Croatian Parliament can launch an investigative commission if you have given unanimous support to the Immunological Institute Investigation Commission. I'm sure you'll give your support on this, too. And then there won't be any secrets, and then the finance minister won't be able to avoid the answers because we'll call him and ask him, because we'll call and ask how did this law happen, who wrote him? Why is Alvarez saying there's more work to be done? So if the law wasn't written for Agrokor, which is why Alvarez is saying today that he still needs to be done with the Croatian prime minister. Look out he's like the alparians standing next to each other there. Well, that's what I'm saying here for Prime Minister Plenkovic. It's not a simple way to work. A message of seriousness is being sent in a hundred different ways, not in such a way as to invite people to shop from the Government's pay phone. It's the first time I've seen it happen anywhere else. I didn't see that case anywhere. So at the end of this debate, at the end of this day, my very simple message to Croatian citizens, you know what anyone stands for, you know who's behind who, you know who created the problem, you know when the problem culminated, you know where he worked and what motives he's been working with, and what motives he's made for this job, and you make your own conclusions. And don't call and tell the impressions that someone will call for demagogy and that story ends, because that story, believe me, is just beginning. And here I declare war I'm publishing war on interesting lobbies that led to this. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] to end Agrokor there is a war of political integration [[Invader Opačić: A colleague of Maras has a lot of replicas on your display.]] And big capital. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36120	Thank you. I'm asking you nicely to hold on to your time or we won't do it like this until morning. So five replicas, six is on your exhibit. First MP, representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36121	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to say that in the media it's often, and especially from our prime minister, they use expressions like Plan A and Plan B. Plan A is standstill, and plan B is like this administration that the state is installing. But what's the trick? The most obvious scenario is ultimately plan C, which is bankruptcy. So, regardless of either plan A or plan B eventually Agrokor will go bankrupt. Whether to go bankrupt in 60 days or 15 months it is now just a matter of time race, because debts and obligations are such that they are simply not able to be serviced. And I don't understand why he's talking to the Prime Minister together with Mr. Alvarez, he's calling on citizens to buy in Konzum to save Agrokor. Well, that's bullshit. Well, we can all shop in Konzum, there's no Agror's salvation. It's the kind of numbers that hurt your head. That financial structure the boss made, so no one can untangle it. It's all due to everyone in that concert, it's all mortgaged. He was in debt wherever he could, and even without any collateral, means these men with bonds, etc. This isn't really a job for the Parliament. We shouldn't be discussing Agrokor today. In the DORH, we should discuss Agrokor and the prime minister should bring Mr. Cvitan to the government and tell Mr. Cvitan what you've done, what you've done so far, who the suspects, what amount has evaporated, destroyed, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36122	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36123	Thank you very much. I wouldn't agree with the good part of your replica. I think they're in the context of a concert and a high-quality company that is unfortunately burdened with certain business activities. No one can tell me that Jamnica is not a good company. By now, I may be called here to advertise certain brands, but if the company makes 150, 200 million kuna a year, if it has a concession on the national wealth that Croatia has and what the future is I would say, so I think Croatia will position among the wealthier countries over the next 20 years because of the source of water we have. That company has value. And what I want to tell people here is that these companies will not fail, that property can change, that things can be restructured, but they will continue to work. So let's not be burdened by one man, one owner and one situation. What I want here is a country that will have equal access to everyone. That's the problem here. It's not there. So when we talk, the prime minister is a lawyer, I give him the championship and the advantage of knowing things better than I do, but I've been reading and reviewing some of the world's legislation. An American case that has such examples of freezing when there is a crisis in the company does not give the government the right to have an initiative, but the court and creditors are the law. The Prime Minister cannot propose a Commissioner who will then decide which entrepreneur is in favour, which is not in advantage, etc. Who here can convince us of the impartiality of this man who will come to Agrokor for Commissioner tomorrow?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36124	The next replica is representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36125	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Maras, I asked a question on the Committee on Economy this morning and some colleagues from the ruling majority here today, and I didn't get an answer. Now I would also like to ask you, and this is that this law is contrary to what they say by ruling to protect just all the believers of the least, which is that by raising the wall around Agrokor, it cements the existing state and essentially new and only admits the newly created debts, and to all suppliers who want to continue to work, it is this government commissioner who has discretionary right to decide who they will pay and negotiate, through the negotiation of them includes further, that there is a possibility of reciting a small firm, in a way write me 70% of the debt if you want to continue with me or write me 70% of the debt if you want to continue to get those funds. And many of them are at a loss of strength and can't wait another 15 months for them to even get their money back, and many of them will fall through a month, two, three, let alone continue to work. Mostly I'd like to hear a comment about it from you. The other thing, you said that this law was written for one company, but I will now repeat here what I said this morning on the Committee on Economy, this law has been written to the extent of the boss himself because basically raising the wall around Agrokor and blocking all proceedings against Agrokor gives 15 months to the boss to pack bags and go to Mexico. And why Mexico, I didn't say it anyway, here I don't know if there's a Consumo in Mexico, you can check it out on wwwconsumo.com.mx and now I don't know if it's the boss who opened up his shop there so it's just gonna be transferred there or someone plagiarized us or someone stole the boss's brand. You see, it's all the same, it even has a triangle, they have a K plus they have K plus products, they collect points. And now I'm interested in what's here because the government should run for intellectual property theft if it's not the boss. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] If he's the boss, then we should all be worried together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36126	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36127	Thank you very much. Mr. Djujic, theoretically according to this law that is not in accordance with me in the Constitution, it is possible not only to be frozen in the past but in the future to determine who you will pay and who you will not pay. So the commissioner to be appointed by Prime Minister Plenkovic, and it says in the paper that already knows who the person is, is Mr Ramljak, allegedly, someone to deny me, from the Borislav Škegra Fund, an associate, he will be able to decide autonomously in the future to whom he will pay the invoice, whom he will not. He'll be able to, Mr. Bully Jamnica, not pay the concession for the State, and the state won't be able to do anything. Here's what you stand for for natural resources, you talk a lot about wind, water, Cetina, here's how you support the law where in the future the company covered by this law will be able to pay a concession on our natural wealth, and the state won't be able to charge anything, nor to start an administrative procedure to take away the concession, nothing. So these are the things that are covered by this law and that again, I say I'm not a lawyer, but I trust law professors who say it's unconstitutional. Well, I guess not everyone conspired against the HDZ government and the MOST, and now they write and explain it, I don't know what their motives would be except for professional ones. But go ahead, force it, and we'll see how it ends.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36128	Thank you. Next replica representative Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36129	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here said Mr. Maras that he was fresh and fit, and we're here fit, so then we can rationally continue to dialogue on this case. You need to stay sober in all this. Of course this law is written because of the problems in Agrokor it's clear, but it won't just be with Agrokor. As the banking union was adopted at EU level, not only because of Greece, that because of the debt crisis and because of Greece but now it is a mechanism that will work afterwards. So let's be rational. Yes, because of Agrokor, but not just because of Agrokor, and certainly not because of Mr. Todorovic. If someone else were in charge of Agrokora, if someone else owned it, we would adopt it or suggest it, regardless of who was in charge of Agrokora. In this case, it's Mr. Todoric. But the first plan is for us in Croatian politics, so for you in SDP, it is at least my impression, the Croatian labour force, means employees and small and medium-sized enterprises. suppliers. It's in our focus. And we want to solve this in a way that we have a mechanism of prevention and intervention in the long term. I said just before in the replica that some other people worked in some other countries when they were more than their national budget, for example. For 10 years now in Germany, it has been available to rescue systemically important companies in this bank case. So let's be rational, you're not into this law, I understand it, the opposition must have its own position, but let's be rational and realize that we don't do Mr. Todorovic, we deal with people who work, employees and we deal with suppliers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36130	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36131	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovac, you're a very, very good diplomat, that I don't praise you too much right now, but here your arguments are very thin, and I'll explain why. You were an ambassador, an ambassador to Germany, and imagine the situation that Mrs Angela Merkel went out for the Croatian Parliament's pay phone and explained that the law was not passed, for example, because of Daimler, but because of the German forests or the city's utility in Munich. I think try to understand that level of argument. Today, the prime minister explained to us here that this law will cover a potential crisis in the Croatian forests. So how would the professional and political public in Bundestag welcome that? Well, I believe we'd be much rougher in grades than the opposition in the Croatian Parliament. What kind of god can Croatian forests be covered by this law? What kind of reason is that? Zagreb Electric Tram i.e. Holding, so what will the state send to the municipal company in Zagreb? Well, what kind of message is that? I can't understand that. What is the intensity at all, and who even suggested such an argument to the prime minister? And that's why I'm telling you it's not about 10 companies. It's about one or the most several companies, but this one was a trigger. No Croatian forests, Croatian waters, ZETs and similar companies are intensities. And that's why I'm telling you this sounds unconvincing. This way in Germany where you were in the service of never a German prime minister could... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36132	We have another replica, Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36133	Representative Maras, you, as Minister of Entrepreneurship, as one of the best ministers, have made numerous proposals in your individual debate, from a layman's point of view you announced a war on large capital. Where's your headquarters? Maybe Touch or Peppermint? You said you were going to fight hard, so I'm sorry that you were the one who filled the bag of Todorovic as a member of the HBOR Supervisory Board, a long time as Minister of Entrepreneurship, one of the more successful. And respecting your opinion, calling for the protection of workers, for example, the workers of the Dalmatian factory just during your term each month received from Croatian waters 20 thousand kuna in bankruptcy at the expense of the Dalmatian maintenance company, however, nothing was maintained but a burden on the bankruptcy of the state, just so that workers could not receive their own claims of 9 million kuna. In my opinion, one comment from you I would like, because you were one of the better ministers and that was a statement on behalf of the Government in which you were Minister 14.6.4. when Agrokor bought Mercator then Zoran Milanovic and you were then the minister of one of the more successful said, here to quote: "I think that's a good thing for Croatia, the expansion of Croatian production, we will all benefit from that. Thank you, Mr. Todorovic." You know, you were a minister back then, I didn't hear you say this back then, you were filling a bag for Mr. Todorovic, uncontrollably and as a member of the supervisory board. I'm sorry it's like that because you're really one of the most successful ministers. And to negotiate only and negotiate and call to the Most and we listened to you every day in a way without any suggestion that the whole debate was not constructive, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36134	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36135	Well, you've heard a lot of things, but it's nothing new. Get in, get out, through one inside, through the other outside. And what am I supposed to do, I can't say it five times. But here's to you I'd love to if you'd like to repeat everything I said today at the coffee shop one more time. If you have time, don't rush home after the debate. So I didn't fill anyone's bag, it's your first guilty thesis. I'm aware that I'm going to listen to your sarcastic remarks for four more years because that's all you're saying, wind power plants and my success as a minister. So here's some citizens listening to Mira Bulja's debates, 90% of them down to the fact that I was a successful minister and that wind power is a crime. And whatever the subject is, regardless of what is being debated, you do the same thing and repeat it. Now let's test it in the future if it's going to happen again. I'm convinced, almost certainly, that in 90% of the cases it will be so. What's important about me is that I didn't fill anyone's pockets, that I don't mind that our products are sold for example in Slovenia, in Mercator stores, I don't see any harm in that, that I don't think that this has led to a crisis in Agrokor, that I don't think it's bad companies but it's obviously been bad. And apparently that model went to the mill until it broke, and it's obvious that this government didn't detect the problem at the time it was due to an interesting connection to Agrokora. Point. I don't have anything to say anymore and you guys keep saying the same thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36136	Your time is up. Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. On behalf of the promoter, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36137	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs Opačić, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here is the obvious debate on the subject of this law driven a great deal of interest not only to the public, but to all of you who, by late hours, have basically debated practically just the club presentations, we have many more for individual debates. So, to clarify some of these comments that I heard as I entered the assembly now, I came first and foremost to show respect for the Croatian Parliament and the MPs for this debate but also for the seriousness of the topic. So what seems relevant to me is that when you speak and you comment essentially on what you read on the portals and you weren't on the press, so you don't know, it would be really a little unusual for the Prime Minister to call, if he was just buying in a retail chain. That certainly wouldn't be said by any Prime Minister. But what I would do as Prime Minister and what probably any other Prime Minister would do in this situation, and that is to the public transparently send messages of stabilisation, consolidation and trust. The circumstances in which the largest company was found at this time are due to all of us who have certain public duties and the obligation to act responsibly in a way that stabilises the Croatian economy, to send dying messages to suppliers, to workers, employees, to all those who seek a solution that would allow both new liquidity and company restructuring. This is the key, and this is the goal, and it is good to learn firsthand what experts with the world’s renaissance who have had experience in such situations in other countries have as an idea of how they see a hodogram of activities and how they intend to help them achieve this goal. And what's good is that kind of message, that kind of information the government hears directly. What I enjoyed was what I said at the press conference that the fundamental ideas of the restructuring process are very consistent with what we have exhibited here today, which we have been talking about in the last few days, which we have analyzed and the way we would have done it would reduce the risks for the Croatian economy, for its quality functioning and for the consolidation of the company and for all those who lean on it. It's a message and it's important and I did it on purpose, consciously, transparently because I think it's necessary and necessary at this point. I claim that the solutions and principles of the law we have proposed are in line with best comparative practice, that this scenario B is the responsibility of the Croatian state in case it should be applied. And that all those stakeholders who are interested in the success of this process would want such a scenario to be led with a full guarantee that the state protects the general interest, protects the public interest, protects our taxpayers, protects our credit rating, works to continue with the reduction of public debt and therefore the legal framework is precise and can say very carefully addressed and written. Using this debate for political points is perfectly natural and normal and no one expects such an important subject to come up with such interpretations. What's important is that we rise up a little bit, look at what's here on things, what's the subject of our debate here, and what's the purpose of our action. And the aim of the government of the Republic of Croatia is a responsible view of the Croatian economy, a responsible view of everything we want to avoid at this time and may have its own negative consequences, and I repeat once again underline the line, send a message of confidence, send a message of stabilisation to everyone involved, and indirectly looking at the system, given all the entities associated with this company, we are practically all involved and that is what we know and that is what we want to solve at this point. I repeat this law has the character of solving problems. We will insist on that, we defend this today in the best interests of the Republic of Croatia, all of our people, in the interest of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36138	Thank you. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36139	Dear Prime Minister, I listened to your words you mentioned the word trust, so I am, but honestly, and from the heart of you, if you believe Minister Marić when he says he knew nothing about the overindebtedness of Agrokor, that he knew nothing about the cats with the bonds, who until a month ago said that everything would be fine, that there was no reason for the alarm, which changed the Accounting Act and the Factoring Act in a way that actually allowed him to cover up the real situation in Agror and the minister who gave the loan, the Christmas loan ahead of Christmas when we all thought about other things, about 280 million kuna to his employer yesterday, although he actually knew that he couldn't return. Because when we talk about trust, it's like you're bringing Mr. Todorovic here right now and he's trying to convince us something, and nobody trusts him anymore. Everyone's gonna say, well, you're a fraud, you're cheating on anyone you could, you've drawn money, you're living in a castle, and the workers are terrified of what they'll pay their bills tomorrow. The suppliers are terrified of the performance. Unfortunately, I think the citizens' trust in this business model, Ivica Todorovic, is gone. Also, I think a person in the government means a minister of finance who's cowardly not here today because you claim this isn't like a law for a single firm. If it's not the law for one company, then why isn't the Minister of Finance here? So it's obvious that he's wet, he's networked and he's not talking about any trust while he's your minister. And if you trust him, you still trust him, but the public is gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36140	Thank you. Next replica representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36141	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, here I would continue on what my colleague Pernar said, which is that in fact this law is political, it has no economic logic whatsoever. This bill simply wants to buy time for you to hide your government's fiasco, to hide the fact that the budget has fallen and that it will already begin next year 2018. Croatia is back in recession. I do not know the basis for which Minister Maric was calculated by the executive director of Agrokora who left behind the desolation according to Mr Alvarez did not make my budget with a rise of 3.2%. Do you really believe that Croatia's GDP will grow 3.2% this year after such a break-up? Independent economic analysts, not Branimir Bunjac, and Ivan Pernar warn you that by the end of the year GDP will be around zero. And it is time to really understand that it is necessary to seriously consider the reconstruction of the government, not just one minister, there are other ministers who deserve to be denied their trust and thus send a message to the Croatian public that you are seriously thinking about saving the economy and that you are seriously thinking about saving small people who are long ago on the verge of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36142	Thank you. Next replica representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36143	Thank you very much. Mr. President. I'm glad that you came here first and that you've lowered your tone and rhetoric a little because the anxiety you showed in the morning shows that you don't care either, and that you're under pressure, I can understand that. But regardless of that understanding, I still have to tell you that even though this can solve something right now, the problems that are going to come out of this are much bigger and that it's your responsibility. People who are now looking and wondering if they will get paid must be aware that you have taken responsibility not only for whether and how the situation will be resolved but tomorrow and operationally naming this executive or commissioner as we already call it, unfortunately you have supported Agrokor and it is nowhere, there is no such case anywhere in the world. And the burden you have, I don't know why you refuse to admit it, so the connection between your government and Agrocora is obvious, so everyone sees it. I don't know if you're aware that a minister in your government has come for a job reference in Agrokor as an expert. You weren't in the government then was Prime Minister Oreshkovic, but you took over that minister and you stand behind him and the man came with that reference, with the knowledge he acquired there, with the information he has there and is constantly related to the company in conflict of interest. And to you it can be funny, you can underestimate it, you can call it demagogy, but it's just like that. This is what the Croatian public sees and it would be easier for you to get rid of that burden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36144	Thank you. Next replica, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36145	Dear Prime Minister, you are calling for confidence, but the legal uncertainty which Croatian citizens view in these processes that take place in this case of Agrokora, before INA and many other companies that went into foreign hands or privatised, of course the citizens are looking at with uncertainty is the fact that, mainly in the judiciary, sanctions are applied in the economy and on the market towards the grandmothers of Dolac who sell onions, is being held in custody, and according to Todorovic, the law has not yet been implemented, but has been filled with pockets and in enormous quantities that essentially took over the entire economic blood stream with a few more companies. However, there is an interesting possibility here in this law, and it might be a good solution for other companies including INA. The fact is that INA has gone into foreign hands, we know in which way and how it has gone, that it is one strategic interest, so here's Article 21 of this law a member of the administration can run this process, and Croatia has a member of the board in INA, so whether what goes towards Agrokor can be used in INA is certainly in the problems we know that there are relations and balances in which... when we see both White Nights all together and Refinery, is there any possibility that we can immediately activate this case in the INA and thus protect our national interest? [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36146	Thank you. Next replica representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36147	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm glad to see you at the Croatian Parliament at this late hour. What I want to say, or I would like to hear from you, is the content of this law, the models contained in it, in some way, commented with those to which they will refer, I mean primarily on the suppliers' companies, so it's part of the processing industry that Mr. Bacic said today from that wall that will be created around Agrokor untouchable, and with this law they won't be able to get a credit in a business bank because it's not enough for them to get a business credit, and they desperately need 20, 30 percent of their claims to be charged, did you comment on it with them and whether the model is worked out in a way to see how it will work? ...really this is the same kind of precedent this law was not done in coordination or in the creation of the Ministry of Justice where all similar laws were made and I think they are more professional than the Ministry of Economy for making such laws because we will or will not, this is one model of quasi bankruptcy law. I wish this law to Croatia should not, that people who have entered the corporation solve all their problems with the owner because I think, and I have some experience with bankruptcy procedures, the committees of creditors think that what it says in the law is difficult to implement. I'm not going to say I'm not going to be an infidel, but I think it's very hurtful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36148	And another replica. Representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36149	Thank you, Madam Vice President. And I don't know if I should set up a replica at all since the Prime Minister doesn't answer to anyone. ... Oh, you're gonna end up, okay. I just want to say that I'm glad you came to show your confidence in the Croatian Parliament and I really appreciate it without any sarcasm. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I honestly didn't think you'd come back at this hour. I'm sorry you haven't been here all day. I know that the Prime Minister has important obligations, and here I don't know you had at 5 o'clock the presentation of HDZ candidates for large cities, which is very important for the current state of the economy in Croatia so I understand that you couldn't be here. I'm glad you're having a discussion with which you've now tried to lower your tension and I'm sorry that you haven't been here all day, and that's because if you've been here, maybe the debate would have gone in another direction. Because you can't get the impression of today's debate based on the last 5, 10 minutes you've been here, and I also believe that today you certainly haven't watched television and parliamentary debate all over the walk, what you've been doing since you left the Parliament, but we've been giving as an opposition a good part of the proposal and a good part of the concrete objections to this law, and your HDZ colleagues have had a diametrically opposite debate from you. While you call on us to rise a little above all else, to show responsibility, to lower the ball, to follow the stabilization trail. I don't know your club president, Mr. Bačić, has devoted 70% of his debate to the debate on pre-profit settlements and that our government of the SDPs has done nothing and we are incompetent and we know nothing and that you will not ask us any advice and suggestions. And then you come and say give the people a suggestion, let's get a consensus. A whole series of your MPs, Boris, Klaric, Boban, and Kovac were here all the time saying that we are for nothing and that nothing should be asked us and that we haven't done anything all these years and then you come and say, "Give the people help," we all go together. Now I don't know if you don't have the same attitude as HDZ or if you don't have control over your party. Here, I'd like you to just give me a brief answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36150	The Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, will now respond to all replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36151	Here I will try to be somewhat brief given the time and in two minutes respond to all these comments you have had. So, first of all, as far as Minister Maric is concerned, he has my trust, the man had a career and before he worked in Agrokor, if you don't know, you're a young man, he was also your Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance and Assistant Minister and he went with his career at the Economic Institute. And he came to Agrokor after he made his steps. As far as his activities are concerned, it is all correct, as far as the HBOR loans are concerned, the credit committee has passed, the funds have been given for the purpose, after the documentation has been seen and there is nothing disputed there, however. As for the overall argument of your colleague from the club whether the government needs a reconstruction, how much GDP it will be, look at everything they say, all the international agencies, credit rating agencies, indicators we're working on, GDP growth, public debt reduction, deficit reduction, the national reform programme we're building, all of these are elements that go in the right direction. The approach to this big question that we are talking about today is also a sign that these trends remain that way. I don't know what kind of experts you think you are, but certainly not those with whom the government is consulted. As for the tone of the debate, I don't mind having any tone. I can have the most diplomatic, the most lively, the most original, if I'm depressed, then we're a fly, if we're... Then we're nervous, whatever you want, whatever scenario you can get from me, but I choose when I use which scenario knowingly and intentionally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HDZ position is consolidated. The HDZ and parliamentary majority will support this law, we think it is good and it is appropriate. We work transparently and communicate with everyone including suppliers and creditors and companies and advisors and all possible chambers and those interested in achieving success in the general interest of all. And the general interest of all in this process is the Croatian state. And that's what the point of this law and our responsibility were, on that trail, arguments and debates. I apologize for these 23 seconds, but since there's been six discussions. I appreciate what you're going to be discussing, the work has been very much, I've been watching, part of it I'm not and I'm not taking the cabinet and other activities we do as much as we can day and night. Both today and very, very long time, and so it will be during the entire term of office of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36152	Thank you. Yeah, I let you have a little bit more time because there were six replicas, you saved us a lot of time, you didn't match every replica. The next individual debate is representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36153	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the government. Today we are discussing two Croatias, discussing old and new Croatia, about similar and inappropriate, about tycoon and about robbed, transformed profit and homeland. We are discussing a difficult past that has become too much of a burden and the possibility of a new beginning to build a future. Since the creation of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately we have two Croatians and the case Agrokor is the most obvious example of such, to prove such a claim. Because, as you well know, 99% of Croatian citizens, one law applies to them and several tycoons are subject to other laws. As far as they're concerned, as we can see, they're also writing special laws. Because craftsmen in Croatia who have only 10 kuna surpluses in the cash register, who only once filled a wrong plate, made the slightest mistake in construction procedures, will immediately come to the tax administration, stamp their assets, block their accounts, decommission them and push them into an unexposed situation from which they will not get out until the rest of their lives. We live in Croatia where 99% of citizens, therefore, cannot achieve the benefits of one person's realisation and thus directly violates the fundamental principle of justice and legality that has existed in the civilized world for 300 years. When Croatian citizens find themselves in trouble, do you know what our government is telling them? Sell the TV, sell the car, talk less on the phone, quit smoking, save on the directors, don't eat. Can such an attitude now be suggested that Mr. Todorovic sell his yacht, sell his island, sell his castle? Yeah, it may seem like I'm caricin', but that would be the most just solution. And here today they mentioned plan A, plan B, here we heard and plan C mentioned MP Pernar, and I will tell you plan D. Todoric once and for all should be removed from Agrokor. And so long as he is there, the solution to this problem cannot be expected, nor can the solution of the Croatian economy be expected as a whole. If anyone deserves to leave, and if anyone has to leave, then it's exactly the man who is a symbol of criminal privatisation and conversion, guessing, protection of institutions, political networking with the highest institutions of this country. If there was honesty in this government, if there were honesty in these institutions, the Todoric family would first be taken away from all those assets that they had not acquired by their own work, so according to the report in Forbes magazine, they own 3.8 billion kuna. It should be taken away from them, taken away if it is necessary and passports, banned from bringing out money from the country and first settled those most sensitive layers of the company of workers, suppliers, those who patch up the end. It's not an unusual idea. Something like that has already happened. Where? In Iceland. Check it out. The richest people in that country who brought the country into crisis, their banks and companies ended up in prison. No kuna, no euro from Iceland has been exported to secret accounts, to off-shore accounts, to companies in the Netherlands invented etc. That would be a fair solution, because you can't expect anything to change in Agrokor if the one who created the crisis is still there. When he leaves, when the property is taken away from him, then the second order, the middle order of the suppliers, needs them, justice and honesty should be given to them. And those who knowingly borrowed, who gave credits they knew in advance that they would never charge for them except with the help of politics and procedural violence, let them bear their share of the risk, let them learn their minds, and whatever happens to them eventually they will survive, and they will still have so much left over for not one life, but for a hundred lives. Lex Agrokor must not live because he is deeply unjust and solves nothing. He says something in Croatia will be better in 15 months. What better way to go if it's 45 billion kuna? In what way? What spell? What the government thinks of the magic trick for 15 months is to stabilize an exhaling company and no more measures can be saved, with more responsibility than total assets. What will you make up for Prime Minister Plenkovic in 15 months? Lex Agrokor two or Lex Croatia? Who will write this lex Croatia and will come to it if you continue this policy of commitment without asking Croatian citizens and without reaching some consensus in this House. So we're against Lex Agrokor. The living wall will vote against this law. He is unjust, he pleases one man. We ask that our work be done by the institutions above all the DORH, that Mr. Todorovic and all the other tycoons move away from the management of companies that have acquired from the people without a single kuna, who have taken away that opportunity to create themselves and their families a normal life and a normal future. It's only when it's done, that's when this society's gonna get better. It's time that after 27 years, all of us, and especially you who let that happen, say it's enough now, it's time for me to go some other way. Close this ugly site not only in the history of the Croatian economy, but in the history of the Croatian state. It's time to stop that. An extension of agony will only make it even more difficult for us to get out of what we are now in, and we know that we are in extremely deep trouble. I only remind once again of the words of the new manager of Agrokor, Mr. Alvarez, that he has never seen a worse company in his life than Agrokor. So do we need more proof to wake up, to think about it and really take this moment as an opportunity to make a positive step, one break with everything that has burdened our society over the past 27 years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36154	Thank you. Representative Ivan Pernar spoke for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36155	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, you said the debt of Agrokora is 45 billion kuna, which is unfortunately incorrect information, it's just bank debt. When the suppliers were added and their debt was 16 billion in September, it was probably 17 already, which means that Agrokora's debt is currently more than 60 billion kuna. The country's budget of around 120 billion, 125, means 61.62 billion. And what's going on? Even when this law is done in 15 months and 61, two billion minimum, and it's going to be up to 65 billion, it's going to collapse like an avalanche to that conglomerate. Another detail you said, it's Todorovic's fault. I would say he is not guilty either, he is not guilty or Kutle, he is not guilty either, these people are only byproduct of the state of consciousness of what government in the Croatian people, the state of consciousness that insists on the election of those political parties who support so-called. crime is the highest level of what has now happened that hides it, interferes with supervision of it, etc. So Croatian citizens as voters in this capacity are the most responsible for the state of play in the country. And as long as she continues to vote for that policy, there will be her victims. And those who believe today that they can repay loans, that they have a secure salary and who may have laughed at the people we've defended from the raids or those who were in the blockade, tomorrow they won't laugh because they'll realize that they're also on that sinking ship and that they'll be his victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36156	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36157	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Pernar. What else should the state do to help Ivica Todorovic after all that has helped him in the last 25 years? So how many subsidies have left the state budget, how many billions of kuna? So for Mr. Todorovic minimum wage was arranged, he determined how many people would have minimum wage in Croatia. The CNB course was subordinated to him, the tax was subordinated to him. The laws were subject to him, the judiciary helped him, the media helped him. So what further help does he need? The prime minister says we will help him, but how can the Croatian state enter Agrokor to have only rights without obligation? So now we're going to be guaranteeing that the debt that you've said is half of the Croatian budget? Are we going to save the company that operates in eight states? Are we gonna let these countries sue us just because we agreed to be managers in a failed company under the law that's going to be passed tomorrow? It just doesn't make any sense. The Croatian state, if it helped anyone, has helped Ivica Todorovic and indeed has no more reason to help him in any way. It's really time to say enough, but it seems that this government doesn't have the courage to do so because it is more concerned with the local elections that will take place in seven weeks and is more important to her as the American ambassador who comes to the government says. Well, here's Mr. Prime Minister, if you could explain to us what the American ambassador to the Croatian government was doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36158	Thank you. The next replica of Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36159	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, here's the first time I've agreed with you in five months we've known each other. I agree in this part where you said that Todorovic should be taken away from all property that is not acquired from work and I support it, not only in relation to Todorovic but every natural person who has acquired property that cannot be proven by work. The problem, however, is what is not the solution to this economy. So it's not our decision just to put Todorovic in jail. If we still have open conditions for tomorrow to be the second Todorovic, then the third, then the fourth, so we must simply change a series of laws, regulations and a complete economy by encouraging and protecting small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, not large ones. This is what is key to not having the next Todorovic happen to us again. So we have to change the whole economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36160	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36161	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ninčević. Here's our chance. Let's go save everybody. Why should we have to pass a law that saves one man? Let's go save everyone, let's go save the blocked, let's save the viaduct, let's save Zvečeva, let's save Borovo, let's save the turns, let's save the OPGs. Thousands of O.P.G.s are blocked, 20,000 turns are gone, so why don't we save them? So let's go. Why are we saving banks? Sberbank or some bank there was paying 10% interest, they knew it was a loan interest, they knew they were investing at risk in 2014. And why would they do that? To take over Slavonia and Baranja? That was the goal? With the help of one loan take over one entire state? Why should we now have regard for such interests? So why don't we take care of ourselves? We have options. It's not too late yet. And you're in that government. Say it clearly and loudly, no, this law does not solve anything, this law is just a psychological moment without real consequences, let's go solve problems at a wider level, let's finally introduce order into the Croatian economy, let's put order in the Croatian judiciary, let's put order in monetary policy, let's put order in Croatian society, let's act differently, more responsible. But to think that it could happen before those who caused this state go away, it just, you know, it's not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36162	Thank you. Next debate, MP Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36163	Thank you, Chairman. I remember before New Year's Eve there at the chair where Prime Minister Plenkovic was sitting, Minister Maric sat. And I remember when I told him, Mr. Maric, this budget of yours isn't sustainable, you're kidding us, the real budget deficit isn't 11 billion, but at least 35, 40 billion. So for the amount of 40 billion kuna, the state will have to be in debt this year. That's the amount we're missing, which we don't have. And I told him, Mr. Maric, I caught you with my fingers in a jam. Mr. Maric led the double accounting, you did not show the expenditure crediblely, but you made a budget and an account of income and expenditure as if you had made two books of business where you booked the expenses for loans in another book. And now what? Of course, he then assured that this model was the correct bookkeeping that, in fact, the government debt would, although growing vertically towards the worse that he was not the problem, but in the end it turned out to be a very, very problem. Why? Today, the public is still convinced of the sustainability of this model, but for how long? How long has it been, ladies and gentlemen? Excuse me, Agent Djakic and I have a laser in my eyes. I think it's a shame. Please, yes, I was brought out of this House because I was speaking against Karamark and this man with the laser lights in my eyes, is that normal chairman, excuse me?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36164	I haven't noticed, and I'm asking you to move on with your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36165	Thank you. This is terrifying where HDZ leads our country. The Croatian people, they assure you that they are leading you in the right direction, assure you that this is the right way. But is this the right way? What are the results of this policy? This is just a delay in bankruptcy and chaos comes after the election. So the prime minister has decided I'll cover up the problem on time. And the problem's about to explode. The prime minister is talking about how a system solution is sought, or how this is a system solution. However, this system solution will not save 330,000 blocked, nor will it prevent the privatisation of HEP, nor will it solve the problem of the illegal RBA cooperatives and these loans, nor will it solve the problem of the 50,000 OPGs that have disappeared, nor will they return jobs, nothing. So this isn't a system solution. The only system solution is what I've been talking about all along, it's the write-off of the foreign debt, the removal of the currency clause, that is, the decommissioning of all foreign currency loans and the one-time money emissions from the state, or one-time inflation whose goal would be to eat credits, to resolve this liquidity and to unblock citizens. People will say Mr. Pernar, it's a radical solution. Mr. Pernar that, it's as simple as they say, it's like it can't and can't be done. But I ask you what alternative, what is the alternative ladies and gentlemen? The alternative is the current state, the alternative is 340 thousand blocked, the alternative is that Agrokor sinks down and instead of sinking himself he will pull all suppliers with him. So are you aware of what it means that by applying this law, his, tomorrow, the HDZ gentlemen will vote him, not a single supplier, the suppliers' debts are 17 billion kuna, they will not be charged by Agrokor. At the same time, the factoring of companies and banks where these same suppliers were tasked with essentially operating over them will be possible. If you wanted to make a law that would save the economic circle, you should have saved it, then put it on stand still and Agrokor and its suppliers. But what, you're protecting, or planning to protect only Agrokor, and what about suppliers? Frank's account was blocked today, so they were able to unblock it. And Zvec has been blocked, and the workers haven't received their salary for two months. So, what about Zvech? You'll say, ha, you'll say that, Pernar, Zvečevo is not a systemically important company, is it? It's 75 to the owners and it doesn't matter 2,000 suppliers. What aren't they systemically important? Only because they don't have one boss. So the reason they'll all be able to fail is because they don't have one boss. And those from Agrokor had one boss. And they, of course, are going to be saved. Also the real cause of the decline in consumption, i.e. One of the reasons for this missed monetary policy I've been talking about all along is the executive law that killed purchasing power. So, if you take a 150-dollar debt to an executive, he can't spend that money. Says Mr. Alvarez buy in the Konzum. And what? And what do they buy people in Konzum? With bons. And one more thing. The greatest evidence of the terrible rabbit indifference in the country, the rabbit's dung, you know which one? Well, the fact that Todorovic made payments with bonuses. He used those K plus bonuses as a currency. It's the simplest, most obvious proof that there's something wrong with the financial system. And to sum up one more thought. When you look at the total revenues of the state on the one hand and the debts of the state on the one hand and on the other hand you look at the total revenues of Agrokor and the total debts of Agrokor, you will see that the state is in a much worse position as regards the debt situation and that the chance of the state to repay loans is nothing like the chance of Agrokor. As Agrokor runs out of property, so will the state. You're introducing a real estate tax like a real estate tax is going to solve anything. You tell us stories about economic growth, I don't know any European Croatia, this, that. What a European Croatia. People dig through garbage, they have said they don't have kunas in their pocket. It is Croatia as created by HDZ. And it's sad that the Prime Minister's gone now, that he got out of here, but he's fine. And I'm surprised by those voters who vote for that policy and support them. HDZ turned the CNB into the exchange office in '94. In such a model, external debt flows into the internal one. People say I don't care what the state has to do with debt, what the state is in debt slavery. So let all those citizens who say they don't care about government debt whether in a country that's unfree, which is in debt slavery, can they as citizens be free? Is the country in debt slavery ruled by citizens or by creditors? Now we have Alvarez as manager of Agrocora. So in Greece, what happened? They sent them a German, here they say he's the new manager. He's the new manager, he'll tell you what to do. He can block laws, make decisions, etc. I remember when it came to Prime Minister Oreshkovic that he would be to say the bankruptcy manager, but the key thing is next. In this financial system, students are taught how VAT is calculated, i.e. from a gross price. The gross price is multiplied by the VAT rate over a hundred plus that rate. And then they can calculate what VAT is from the total price. And they're gonna learn that, and the students are gonna know that. But one thing they won't know, one thing they won't learn in college is that money is created exclusively by taking credit and that money for paying off interest doesn't exist. So when the boss took out the loans, he got the principal credit, and the interest money was never created. And for that reason, loans are technically non-refundable. I invite citizens to read Larry Hannigan's book, the Australian, 1981, wrote the book "I Want a Country Plus 5%". In that book, he explained how banks rule the world through unpaid debt, how they control the media. I tried to localize that story and so I wrote the book "How Money Made". Both books can be downloaded online. People, read it, come to your senses and wake up because what's happening today to Agror tomorrow is going to happen to you. Only dear citizens keep one thing in mind, no special law will be written for you, the laws are already written for you, and that law is an order over money, a block of bills, an operation. It's a law that applies to you, it's a law that applies to Ms. Nevenka Licul from Rijeka, which, due to the 2,000 kuna debt for housing, has run out of flats. And the boss who loaded 60 billion kunas, he lives in a castle, he sucks out the money, and he doesn't give a shit about all this. Unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36166	Thank you. Next debate, MP Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36167	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we are talking a lot today about the situation in Agrokor. In fact, we don't even know what the situation is, because the latest data we actually have in public is 30.9.2016. So we don't have the data for half a year. It is now the third month of 2017 so that only guesses how much the debts actually are, how much of them are due to what's most important. However, there has been a lot of talk here today whether this is system law or yes or no. What did my colleagues say was not a system law, and we'll try to say in a few words why this isn't a system law? This is a law exclusively for Agrokor, but it's not a problem for Agrokor, it's not really a system firm that's connected to Agrokor. What's going on here? It happens here that standsteel will only be made between Agrokor and the banks. The question arises where is standsteel between suppliers and banks, between suppliers and state, between all of them in the chain? Because no one knows what a group of connected companies are in Agrokora. Believe me, no one knows. You know why he doesn't know? Neither does the Croatian National Bank. Because it's not just a group of related companies owned by you. A group of companies is seen in economic terms, how economically you are related to this company. If you make up 50 or 60 or 30 or 40% of the company's income and are dependent on it, you are a group of related companies where it is systemicly important. And why are we talking here and what are our suggestions? Well, anyway, except for what we said this couldn't be the only law. Certainly what must be done first is to agree with the governor of the Croatian National Bank to secure liquidity in the system. Today we are constantly talking about the indifference of Agrokor, we are talking about the problems of the supplier's liquidity. We don't know what's going on with the suppliers. We don't know how deep that goes, and that's why it's necessary to ensure that the CNB's kuna liquidity is in the system. It must not happen to us that numerous blockades lead to a blockage of the entire system. Number two, what matters is if we've been told here for 15 months that we're putting an emergency administration, the question is, or must go with a tax debt reprogramme to everyone. We can't just go to suppliers. What's going on now? The state blocked Agrokor with 200 million kuna, but suppliers owe Agrokor 16 billion kuna. The question is, how can suppliers pay VAT? Those who are up to three million kuna, if they are charged by cash, they do not have to pay for it, however, if they had to pay for the bill. But you know what the further problem is? how the state can then block those suppliers, and the main indifference in the system was carried out by Agrokor and it is according to tax laws a guarantee of pay for their VAT. So what we're proposing is that, with this law, you have to urgently pass the Tax Debt Reprogramme Act for all of them, so we can't just put for one supplier, would it be in this context of some form of support, rather than putting for all of Croatia, and you're giving them 15 months. If they find themselves in trouble how long this law lasts, give them 15 months so they can pay their tax obligations to the wars. Because look, if they're frozen that Agrokor won't pay them for 15 months, and on the other hand, the state has last said by law that Agrokor guarantees their tax, you've put these entrepreneurs in an unequal position. The state is then responsible for the non-payment chain and must not ultimately block it. It doesn't matter what the law requires, but on the other hand by law and Agrokor should be a guarantee... for all those suppliers. So that you wouldn't find yourself in this situation I suggest you pass the Tax Debt Reprogramme Act like we did in 2012 and make it easy for all suppliers if they find themselves in Frank's problem, the Dukats of all these companies because if they're blocked today they're not going to be able to pay their salaries tomorrow, they won't be able to pay the VAT, they won't be able to because they're blocked. And imagine who blocked them? Why are these going so far? They've been blocked by small banks and then you'll have a system... that will drop a few small banks necessarily. And that's why the small banks were first in the system, and that's why the CNB doesn't just have to look at big banks. You also have a lot of small banks that have been leaning on suppliers, and if you've been reading well who's blocked them, they've just been blocked by small banks. What's the systemic risk behind the small bank? I know that they are not systemically important for Croatia, but there is one chain that can also take them. I'm just asking what Hanfa's doing? My people have ten days of panic on the market, stock price is down 60%, everyone's watching. They had a legal obligation to stop the trading of shares of Agrokor, not to create speculations that appeared in public. So what happens now? That speculators buy Agrokor stock and bonds at 10, 20% value to resell tomorrow. The state and everyone planted their backs to solve this problem, the speculators will make money in the state. Why HANFA, which is the obligation of HANFA, was when he knew that this extraordinary situation was eaten and the government said that the emergency situation was a special law, why it did not stop trading shares. 60% fell shares of Leda, Jamnica and other companies. Why? That they're valued for, then those shares are sold. See how the value is destroyed and whose value is that? The supplier's value is dropping. By 60% of those who had the collateral Ledoux was worth 100, today it's worth 30, so it won't be covered. The question arises why trade has not been stopped and it has to be done if not today all these days until it is seen in which direction Agrokor will go. Is that how the company was insulted 60% in seven days, and no one reacts in seven days, and that is the regulatory obligation of the regulator to stop speculation and to drop the value of the company that the state is trying to save, and now it will earn the speculators. About the reprogrammes when we talked here, let's not just talk about the program... the style of Agrokor. What will the CNB do to reprogram the supplier's loan to the banks? They have their own obligations. Who can last 15 months so no one can pay him? And on the other hand, Crash, Vindy, Frank has to pay his interest and commitments to his banks every month. Where's the law? We're talking about Stansteel why there's no law here, then we'd be saying that this law is systemic, then it's system law, and then suppliers won't come here so furiously looking for their rights. Give suppliers a re-tax programme, not just for them, but for everyone, if this is an emergency, give them at least 15 months won't affect the state budget. You have a stable state budget now especially because summer is coming, you will return to that part of trust, now the most part of both taxes and VAT are collected, 15 months you will not feel anything, and you will get a lot. What happens in a few days, Petrochemy? The only main buyer, Agrokor. What solution do we have? And tomorrow Petrochemy won't be able to pay taxes. Agrokor doesn't take away how you handle it? You must pass the Tax Debt Reprogramme Act if Petrochemy is found automatically in it and let more in that part eat something in the Ministry if something didn't happen to someone. He's got the law, and we're all gonna support that law, and that's the system law that supports this law. And then they go side by side, not that someone in public is speculating whether someone got shot or didn't get shot. This is how these problems are dealt with systematically. So these are several legal solutions that we expect the government to be very soon as a package of these measures. Keep them in line, I hope none of that happened, but you have to have them ready. You must have them ready if no one knows how many groups of connected companies of Agrokora. Look, those who gave them money don't know that, not us. I'd be here once again a little bit enough is a matter of policy influence, I wouldn't be saying anything here. Look, who was giving money, how the system worked. Agrokor had a yearly payment of 2.5 billion kuna interest, 2.5 billion kuna on 25 billion kuna. You know how many states he's paying? 10 billion interest on 280 billion kuna. Watch the ratio, 2.5 billion to 25 billion and the country's entire 10 to 280, and the state can't handle the burden of interest. The state cannot withstand the burden of interest, not Agrokor with 2.5 billion kuna. So it's just a whole system. If a new one comes with a stand still, unless they give him a 3.4% interest, the whole system can't be kept by my people, because he's got to put all his profits on interest. He's got to put all his profits on interest. And also for suppliers, very short. Why did they go into the Agrokor system and finance it all the time? Just because they had better margins than they had in strangers, everybody knows that, and that's why they gave them away. However, the problem would be payment deadlines. The problem would be payment deadlines where foreigners simply paid you payment deadlines but they had our suppliers 0 earnings. And our suppliers couldn't grow, we can talk about one or the other, they couldn't grow on foreign trade chains, and that's what I last said, why our products aren't in foreign trade chains in Italy, Austria, Germany, etc., then our suppliers could grow. They grew through Agrokor, so they spread to Bosnia, Serbia and other countries, and thus they grew up to be Frank and Agrokor and Vindi and all of them, and therefore they participated in the entire chain, because they encouraged the Croatian economy in that part. I'd like to move to the side of the chain and the problem is to write off the debt, in which way and write off the claim, if they lose the distribution channel, I'm afraid it's going to be a difficult process to restructure, not the Agrokora of my people, the suppliers of which is 6 grand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36168	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to interrupt, but this is one of the few constructive discussions today that can help make this law better. We have three replicas on your exhibit, the first representative is Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36169	Dear Mr. Lalovec, you're the former finance minister, you've probably been sent yourself to many of the troubles around Agrokor. But I would like to point out this key problem that will happen if this law is passed. Namely, there are currently small banks, which you mentioned went with the supplier's blockade. Why aren't they big? The big ones aren't because they agreed to stand still, so the big ones were willing to stop the forced charges. If the state votes this law, if the large banks, if they take away their power over Agrokora, and the government will do so to them and they will not be able to be forced to charge Agrokor, it is 45 million, i.e. 45 billion kuna credits. Who are the banks going to go to? The banks will go to small suppliers. So for now, small banks are flogging the bonds to suppliers, the regressive ones, as they are. If this law is passed, there will be a flood of suppliers that will be covered by executive proposals by large banks. So the moment this law is passed and implemented, Agrokor is saved and all these suppliers are going to ruin. And this is something that the Croatian public, i.e. before the Croatian public, or those who support this close their eyes, will eventually be the solution again so that Agrokor will be torn apart and sold out. It is better now to sell the profit parts of Agrokor and to calm the suppliers than to extend the agony and destroy the suppliers to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36170	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36171	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, yes, there is certainly a small bank issue here. I know that the CNB is not so focused, but we have them and we need to develop them, and that way, the CNB should also provide them with additional liquidity. That's what I am, which would certainly expect the governor to talk not only about the big part but about what happened to the little one. But here is definitely this question, if we're going to solve it completely, this isn't the whole solution, that's what we've been trying to say all along. There's no complete solution with one law. There is no solution with Alvarez's men. What are we talking about? We've got a singer coming in here right now and we've got problems in the country. We've got problems in the state. So the question is, what you said to the Viaduct is, you ask other companies, Petrochemy, you ask the whole system. That's why we have to go with these measures. Liquidity has, the CNB finally what I said must finally be Croatian, to provide liquidity additional in this situation. This is a situation worse for me than we had in 2011 when the liquidity was so much, the indifference so much, it was already dead companies. These are companies that, in GDP, mean 2 to 3%. Watch your salary in Agrokor, no one's said that yet is about 2.5 billion kuna. Your total net salary in Croatia is around 77 billion kuna. That's 3.6%. Do you know how this will pull back and affect the GDP fall? Is that what anyone's thinking? You'll see what your third quarter looks like. Today we boast that we have good indicators. It's too important this situation, you see how suddenly, all of a sudden, it can all slip away. If 3.6% of people who influence net wages and the minister calculated how much tax reform means to him for GDP. Let him calculate how much he pays in Agrokor on the impact of 60% of consumption so you can see what that part is going to be, so you can see all suppliers, to see what happens to our suppliers who are exporters, who, through Agrokor, placed in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know why the Slovenians were against Agrokor? Well, of course they were because retail is the strategic industry of every nation, every nation is retail. Why are they fighting like that? Why do they fight so hard that they can simply push their domestic production through retail chains?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36172	Thank you very much. Next replica Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36173	Dear fellow Lalovac, I am not sorry that I came back here for this debate, because of this very quality debate of yours, and I'm just sorry that she wasn't here this morning, so maybe I'd like to discuss this whole law with each other. Maybe we wouldn't be hitting on some of the life-saving solutions of this law. Perhaps a lot of them would swallow some of the praises that today said on the subject of this law. So thank you for this contribution. So I had a certain suspicion that this could not be solved, this law cannot be solved by itself because my suppliers were left out. But now I kind of thank you for some clarifications. What I've been offered is your review on HANFA. Yes, but we need to understand one thing HANFA is a foreign body in the system, it is an institution that controls or respects the law in that financial part. But her responsibility for the state of the budget, for the state of state finances, is equal to zero. And they can sleep neatly. On the other hand, since I am engaged in pension funds, I am glad that they did not wait, so the mandatory pension funds did not wait for HANFA's recommendation whether to sell, not sell, when to sell those shares, but by their instinct and by following the market and following the events on the market much earlier they started selling shares from portfolios they had, from portfolios of companies associated with the concert, so Ledo, Jamnica, etc. So possible damage to pension funds, for the second pension column, mandatory pension funds are reduced to a minimum. So there are some quality people who should often consult and representatives of the Government when studied [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] events on the market. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36174	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36175	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, I've only asked one fundamental question. If the company, panic is on the market, no one would say one word to them if they had frozen, stopped trading while theirs, had powers to do so, until the situation calmed down. Let the company fall 60%, that panic so deepens 60% at the very beginning of the restructuring and standstill of this law you have 60% of the company that is less valuable. The state is planting its back, we're here to discuss it by midnight. But something 60% is now worth less on the market. They bought speculators who are now waiting for the state to plant their backs, to restructure it and sell it nicely. So in situations like this, that's why we talk all the time, in situations like this, very quickly and soberly, those who have experience should react. HANFA reacted several times when certain shares were traded, when it froze and said such situations were happening. We say what's the impact? So look at the numerous investment funds, pension funds, Leasing houses, the factors were certainly one of the leverage funding of Agrokor. But let's go back to the basics of this part. Today, he's being charged with one or the other. As many as in Agrokor's Croatian suppliers as they participate in Agrokor's retail chain. We let go of all kinds of stories like in Lidl, why don't they go to Lidl, why don't they go to other things. Why foreign chains work in Croatia, do transfer prices and losses. Everyone, today we're talking about the loss of Agrokor. Do you know how many taxes foreign trade chains have paid in Croatia? Profit tax? Go to the website of FINA and see how much foreign trade chains have paid in Croatia, what goods have they sold us? They sold us a zero that they themselves analyzed was much worse than in Germany and such other goods. You have to understand one thing. When it comes to retailing, this kind of thing is not a national chain that sucks and a number of others and Slovenians were. This is a national issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36176	Thank you. Next replica, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36177	... I'm sorry that you didn't get a chance to argue like this during the morning, and I really think that Mr. Hrelja would probably have the whole debate in another tone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what makes me even sadder is that Mr. Plenkovic did not pronounce such a text and that he did not point to problems in the way you pointed out in 10 minutes. He at 20, 25, 30 and Mrs. Dalic, who has now entered, did not point to these problems, unfortunately. And thirdly, it is that now you can actually see how disabled the government is that Mr. Zdravko Marić can in principle not participate in all these financial transactions, that is, in this attempt to save the drowned. Also, if there was more time for this law to go three months ago when it had to go, then we would have had time to discuss it and probably some of these proposals would have come to the ears of the ruling ones, so it might have seemed different today. This is how they proposed a law that is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36178	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36179	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here we are, in fact, not only were we talking about the legal opinion regarding this law we said that this law must have a set of laws, that it is very serious for us, that it will actually be seen here only later how to calm suppliers, how to reprogram these debts, which are all the instruments that the government can have and which would actually government act. And what we are, I'm saying that these 5, 6 measures are done by what we're proposing, and what we're proposing now, what they can do within seven days can bring it. In seven days, they can bring it, or they have to have it. Because if Petrochemy opens to them tomorrow, if any of these companies are opened to them tomorrow, we won't know my people. Then there's going to be a panic about whether or not someone's answering someone, how we communicate. Let's create all the possibilities because I think this is a very serious thing. Summer's coming, you'll see how VAT affects consumption, you'll see how it affects consumption. You're the worst when there's fear in entrepreneurship. Worst fear, fear of giving him the goods, if I'm going to charge for the goods. And what has been said here today must be given to the suppliers a break on these regression bonds. My people, why didn't they sign the standstill? Because they have to pay their own goods once more, so they're in that section and they have to be given a break for Stansteel. But on the other hand, the CNB must also connect the entire system to the banking system and stop that part and stop the company's downfall and not sell now. You know what, gentlemen, they'd all buy it today, there are customers, but at 20% of the value. And what can I tell you if someone sells 20% of the value, you know what that means, that 80% has to be written off if there's no money for everything. And that's why we had to stop the drop in value and calm down the situation, because without it, unfortunately, we won't be able to get away with it. That's why we need to find... in this section but it has to stop the company's downfall. And let's not even talk about some sale right now, is it normal to have them, but there are 10 to 15% of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36180	Thank you. Next debate, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we see on the case of Todorovic and Agrokor that some 25 years, i.e. Here are 20 years of Croatian country i.e. freedom, and 27 years from the draft that the Croatian economy is i.e. The Croatian state has lost most of its sovereignty. So when we speak often remember these glorious days of the Homeland War where there have been numerous victims we go to memorials, there are monuments, but surely these victims were not that here today, from this debate, would have visibly brought the economic situation to this level as it is today, the fact that the economic sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia does not exist at all, and that the inequality of the Constitution guaranteed by what was killed by Croatian defenders simply is no longer guaranteed. Here we observe the CNB in the case of Agrokor where I'm telling the Vice Governor where he says they've long been familiar with it, that they've been giving risk credit to Agrokor who were, that the banks were giving, that they were following it, that they have a system where they can track it where the long-red light lit, but so far there hasn't been any reaction. The policies that were being implemented also kept quiet about everything that was happening in Agrokor so he took over the entire economic system, one person risking all that sovereignty, putting it at risk in the Croatian economic system. Unfortunately, this equality does not exist, and Mrs Dalic is here, there are also former ministers who can tell if there is the same possibility for a farmer who has his OPG not charged and Todorovic does not exist. We are talking and mentioning Todorovic, he is now in a comfortable chair from his own court watching this, surely he has secured one ten of his next generations. Instead of doing what the system needs to do to make one of the laws that we should have passed, we hope that a law on the origin of the property will be passed where a good part of the supplier and the manufacturer could certainly be charged from that property from a number of corners, that we do not list further which have their own empires. We also have a secret service problem. What were the secret security services doing, protecting the economic system and the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia? No, they're not. Here's a great opportunity for me today to say that yesterday I was with Dalmatian workers, women are similar to Kamensko, there's a similar thing in Solin, Osijek, and Sibenik, and Zadar in all the environments, it was a giant with three thousand people, the most women who built the entire Cetino area. 300 women cannot reach nine million kunas of their claims, i.e. Your salary. For what? Because the state refused to give up its specific claims. Of course, and around Todorovic and others who should be of course where they belong, and their place is to take property and respond to policies and answer for what they have done, nothing has been done. So certain companies that had prosperity were simply brought today to the brink of blocking accounts. Why? Because the appearance of Alvarez III or what it is called today shows who we are, what we are and how we hold to our dignity, where these stories are now when we enter the EU that we will be protected, that we will be protected by the economic system, that politics will develop Croatian society, today unfortunately because of this system 2/3 of Croatia is abandoned, empty. We only have something still in Zagreb, and that's questionable. The key question here, what happens if we pass this law, what happens if we don't? Which will be, otherwise here's one or the other. All day we've been fighting the law is good, the law is bad. Well, gentlemen, everything is ruined. How do you get it back? Who will return 100 thousand men to Slavonia of farmers. Todoric and the other corners must sit on the bench to respond to their withdrawal of property, and for the economic system to fight, our villages must return until there is no production, until there is no livestock we have nothing to talk about. And about these laws written on paper, we can freely tear them apart because none of them were respected and not equal to that peasant in Slavonia and not according to Todorovic. Therefore, these stories passed by the law today, did not pass the law, Ivica Todorovic and the team that enabled him, robbed the Croatian state with the help of the CNB, all ministers, and we can discuss the laws until the institutions do their job, until the law is respected, it is not equal to everyone, equality to that peasant who manufactures and Ivica Todorovic until then we have no luck. People don't believe in the judiciary, people don't trust the DORH, people don't trust the SCOTT. Right. As an economic crime if in the market grandma sells something, some product of her own and what happened in the Croatian state that one man took over the entire economic system and literally brought us under the feet is an indicator of how policies were implemented and what policies were conducted on all issues. What do you expect? What do you expect when we have Parliament, when we have a government and a person comes to us from a hundred countries and acts like he's a king? Is this a message from those policies to a man who doesn't know where he's going with him now, to a young person who's going to third countries, only to be able to feed himself and we have the biggest resources? In order to get back, we have to obey the laws of all equals, so far it has not been done. In what way some institutions say, however, the CNB should first ask why it allowed, for the HBOR bank, all governments, all the policies that led to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36182	Thank you. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36183	Thank you, dear colleague. I urge you not to support such a solution that is not really a solution. In fact, even if 60 thousand workers of Agrokor, even those outside Croatia, if they all sold one kidney each, that would not be enough, it would be about a billion and 200 million euros. With that, maybe, we couldn't pay the Russians back with it. So these are simply such figures and any delay in the liquidation of this monster created by Todorovic simply leads to the continuation of agony and shifts the problem to suppliers. That's what this government is pretending to be stupid, pretending to be retarded, and pretending not to understand. That these suppliers that aren't in the ownership structure of the owner's de facto are courtrooms for those debts. They will be matched by these debts like tsunamis and the government has no solution for them. Then what are we going to do about some special law again? Probably not, they'll probably tell the prime minister then, and ha, they're not systemically important, let them fail. As for 2,000 suppliers who may be hiring together even more people than Todorovic, the government is not interested. The government doesn't care about the truth. The government is not interested in justice, the government is not interested in lasting solutions. If this government had permanent solutions, that this government's economic policy was right, we wouldn't be discussing this here at midnight today. But HDZ and SDP have brought us all together to discuss this here today. And what's worse, even when Agrokor's problem is who's actually going to be next, the goal is to destroy everyone and eventually sell out the whole country and say goodbye to Croatian peoples from these areas. There's this song, "To displace us so that there's less of us, they won't, as it says they weren't there, and then they'll tell everyone." That's what's going to happen to us, that's what happens to Croatian youth, that's what happens to the property that the Croatian people have. And this same MOST unfortunately voted together with HDZ to introduce real estate taxes and introduce such laws. So what does the average man have of it? We'll end up all on the street, and the people, that's what this policy supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36184	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36185	Mr. Pernar, MOST is to blame for everything. Come on, yeah, yeah, guilty of everything, yeah. You'd want it to be that way, to be guilty of everything but it can't be guilty of everything because it's a very short MOST in politics so if we have some guilt I'll take it no matter what I didn't vote for tax reform. But the fact that it's the only one and the biggest one, the key problem is legal uncertainty. It is a key problem that not all are equal and institutions are not doing their job. Especially when we look at the relationship to the smallest and these are manufacturers, i.e. The O.P.G.s. What was the country's relationship to the OPGs, not only in the case of lex Todorovic or any other law, but in the case of only EU funds to which the EU is called as some criteria, everything went to Todorovic in its pocket, instead of our peasants in Slavonia. So this government in a few months, three months, four months, there are countless sure mistakes, there are attempts like we all make every day. But here's the question of the system, the system doesn't work, the institutions don't work, the Constitutional Court doesn't work, war profit is like normal wealth in the Homeland War, and today they beat us and those who gave their lives, to whom we worship, and to whom we raise monuments, essentially their sacrifice is in vain. So the Constitution should be equal to the same, to all. So this equality, justice is not the same, and that's why in society people's mistrust with both institutions and in the economy and other branches. And that's why we don't develop as a society. They just don't have people believing in anything. right. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36186	Next replica, Agent Arsen Bauk. Thank you. Representative Franco Vidovic is next in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36187	Comrade Bulj, you have asked one question as to what will happen if we vote and do not pass this law. So all day long we've been looking for an answer to that question and the only person who's offered a somewhat exaggerated answer is my colleague, Lalovec, who came out five minutes ago. But what else I'm interested in. You've mentioned it a lot today, I've listened to you a few times, and I've listened to you very carefully, you've mentioned what our security services have done about Agrocora. And then it was connected to Mercator, Slovenia, to the purchase of Mercator. That's how I understood you, so you correct me in response if you don't. So, for God's sake, what should the SOA do in that case? So the company that operates on the market buys a Slovenian company. What were we supposed to protect Mercator from being taken over by Agrokor? Well, it's not Mercator, buying Mercator isn't the cause of the fall of Agrocora. The cause of the fall of Agrokora is something else entirely. It's a system that's worked for many years as it has worked and survived, and it's now seen in newspapers and by everything when a good part of it finally came out, not everything in sight. It's a system that's basically survived in that gray zone for many years, and that's how it spread. What was SOA supposed to do? What was anyone supposed to do with this country's institutions anyway? The only thing that could have been done was that three months ago, the government reacted, that they came with a bill like this, that you came along with them, and then we discussed the law in two readings, so maybe that law would have really been systematic. Maybe we'd vote differently then. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36188	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36189	A fellow security service is one of the essential factors in controlling economic conquest of territory, meaning sovereignty. Because services mainly in peace should also protect economic sovereignty not only territorial, but also economic. Today, the world does not conquer everything with a rifle, more capital and interest, and the services should, as well as within Croatia, know who holds the entire economic system in this case was one person who reinvested, and we see that there is the greatest influence of foreign banks. Therefore, the security services should provide this information to relevant institutions and, in my view, it is unclear that the National Security Council has not already been called up because this event around Agrokor is at risk and national security is very important. Because it certainly can cause certain earthquakes. So, I think the services play a big role in this, the tribals to have along with the government, along with the ministers, with this whole system because it's no longer winning everything by rifle, but by money and capital. This is visible in a number of countries that have become bananas, countries only... They don't have any more influence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if we continue like this, we are put into a situation that neither the Parliament nor the Government will be needed at all, but some clerk will be able to manage the Republic of Croatia. That's why security services are very important, and that's where they were used in a completely different direction, not what you told me maybe somewhere or I told you about you. Services have their jobs to protect the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia and economic and territorial and I don't know which others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36190	Thank you. We're moving on to the next individual debate, representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36191	I thank my colleagues and colleagues for their perseverance. I don't have the ambition to talk about this law as competently as Mr. Lalovac used to say, and I agree with the predecessors that it's a real shame that we didn't have a chance to hear about it before noon, maybe the later flow would have gone somewhat differently. I'll talk about another thing. I'm going to use these 10 minutes to get people who have built their entire working life and knowledge into creating the biggest combination of Belje to say a few sentences about it. So if it were normal time, if it were a normal situation today, someone would probably celebrate in Belje 320 years of the existence of that combination. It is also written in a book called “Three Centuries of Belja. ” It contains the creation, development of White through the eras, through systems, through politics, through wars, etc. And the fact is, with all that time, all that was growing, it was developing and it was always of strategic interest to all the countries through which the Whites existed. In the 1980s, Belje became one of the most significant, if not the most significant economic factor in our space. To point out here, there were 18 production plants and were constantly employed by about 8 and a half thousand workers, and in the season when she was processing tails, etc. It worked somewhere around 10,000 to 11,000 workers. He was, as experts said, one of the most organised technology units in the region. And what's most important, Belje built a system of cooperation that, with its significance and role, was the same as that of Belje, and that's why the Baranians often said that Baranja Belje, and Belje is Baranja. And then in 2004, there was sales of Belja, buying Agrokor at the price of one kuna per share, plus debts, and then it was the nominal value of the share of 100 kuna. So he bought it by 100 times the nominal value of that stock, bought it at that 18 working plants of productive, 20,000 hectares of oracies and 500 hectares of permanent plantations. Taking into account the incentive system, it is then concluded that, in the course of that year, Agrokor received more than 40 million kuna incentives for orans and some logic in a few years, for some five years, taxpayers from the budget paid the total debt of Belja and Agrokor practically got it in this way for the bad. And now after ten years in Belje of 18 working plants works seven. TOS, Equipment and Machine Factory, which has existed since Austria-Hungarian, has shut down the largest sugar in this area that produced industrial electricity as a by-product, the largest meat complex in the former meat industry has been shut down, the milling plant has been shut down, the livestock has been shut down, probably why we have chicken in Poland with salmonella. The largest fishing industry in the former country has also been shut down, and that's why we in Baranja when we cook beans then cook these famous fish with Hungarian fish because our fishing industry in Baranja was shut down six, seven years ago. So, summa summarum, today of 8.5 thousand workers in Belje for only 1570. That's why the Barans are leaving, and that's why the youngsters are going to waitress in Ireland because there's no way to get a job where they've been working in the van for hundreds of years. So much for the development policy of Agrokor. My finding may be a little cynical, that the Whites 300 years of existence survived all eras and politics and wars and states and all, but it seems that this Agrokor policy of Belje today will not survive. There's one more thing I'd like to mention, as some kind of behavioral indicator of such a concert. The municipality of Trpinja has seven villages and are mostly 90% of farmers whose existence depends on the country. The municipality of Trpinj had about 4 thousand acres of orac in its abbey, with the agricultural land available to most of the land, these oracles received Agrokor or Vupik as a component of Agrokor. The rest of the village remained at the disposal of 1400 hectares of the municipality to share it with the OPG policy. Then Agrokor's manager went into action and he won most of the people in the municipal council with various offers, and they suddenly changed the decision where the 1400 hectares of the rest were assigned to Vupika and Agrokor, respectively, with a promise to hire 160 people on a farm. Of course, 160 people were not employed, the village was absolutely lost, seven villages were left without a hectare of land. Today, a dispute is being held, reported to the DORH for such machinations or the bribery of councilmen, for six years it stands which is the matter or the application and the subject is complete standing in the DORH for six years. No one dares to touch that fact that the Municipality of Trpinja has lost a hectare of land. I could also mention here the relationship to the largest construction company in the East that employs over 500 workers and in a business arrangement with Agrokora has failed after ten years of existence and 500 workers have gone to the streets, lost their jobs. So much for the development policy of Agrokora in the East, so much for some perspectives in the East and so much for the fact that the East and how the East will experience this rescue that fellow Franco soldier Ryan said, they won't be able to experience applause for sure because the common man who's been living for generations from both the Belje Combinth and some of the other entities related to Agrokor, who are now inaccessible to them, will not understand what we're doing. As a club, we supported this initiative, that's what Professor Pupovac said, for one basic reason why we're representatives of a population that's mostly been fired in this period for the last 20 years, rarely who's been employed and we fully understand the fear of these people in Agror, fear of losing their jobs, fear of losing their existence and uncertainty tomorrow. And that is why we insist that the government does not deal with politics but in this case puts priority in protecting these workers in the protection of small and small suppliers. If that doesn't happen then this whole debate and all the work we've been doing doesn't make any sense, and we're going to be pretty hypocritical to our public. As far as the profession is concerned, by commenting on this law, we think that it is very careful to work with the interventionism of the state in private capital, and also to be careful to define state-interest entities in a way that they are exclusively subject to the processing of one law. All in all, we realize that the government needs to intervene here, we think it's a good thing, and we think that this legal text, which will certainly be adopted by most parliament tomorrow, will be subject to certain amendments and additions very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36192	Thank you very much. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36193	Mr. Horvat, you said an interesting thought, you said the Serbs were fired first. And yes, the Serbs were first on the list for the shooting, but no one told the Croats that they were working for 200 families soon, 200 tycoons would receive factories that had been created for decades for peanuts and would drive everyone into bankruptcy and liquidation. It means they'll ruin everything and eventually these Croats will get fired. And they yelled at us in the '90s "we have Croatia", our people shouted "Franjo, Franjo!" So what? What did he get out of it? The telecoms are Austrian, the banks are Italian and Austrian, Telecom is one German. What do we have next? We have Agrokor, who knows whose it will be. Maybe even Russian. We have a Dukat that's French, highways we can't drive because we don't have the money to drive them. Do you know who the homework is? Handzekovic's homework. That thief of ours is destroying us. And that's it. They sold out everything, destroyed everything that could be destroyed and sent people to war. And now that a man's watching what they did to the state, I would say, so it's not possible that the Croatian government did it. But not only is that possible, but it's possible that there are voters who will only say after all this that our own are being stolen, let them steal us still, just let it be our HDZ. And I wonder, Croatian peoples, did the Croatian voters eat your brains? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36194	Next replica representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36195	Dear colleague Horvat. I am one to believe in the few MPs who had the privilege of visiting all corners of Croatia and I can also testify in most of the words that you said because I personally have convinced myself and I have owned that book 300 years of Belje which is very, very impressive and very instructive, I would recommend that everyone look at it that they do not think that the technique started today, that such developed technologies from today are in use in agriculture, I could learn a lot through that book. What I would like to conclude, Todorovic was a rescue for Baranja because there was no other model to revitalise Belje. Come on, he offered a solution. Is that a good solution for Baranja? Baranja was running out of life, and I argue that in addition to the trauma that Baranja went through and Todorovic was doing a depopulation policy because he was doing agriculture according to the principles of open industrial production. It's isolated, there are super modern farms, but life in Baranja is gone. No family economy, no cooperation. And I'm going to quote the founder of Slow Food, a European Slow Food who once said at a conference, a country that loses or ignores family agriculture and craftsmanship has lost its identity. Baranja lost her identity, was guarded by a few restaurants and a few traditional craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36196	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36197	Dear colleague Hrelja, I am pleased that you have met these spatial problems, this space, is the fact that in every privatization, the one who buys and promises everything and then how time moves away, of course, that things happen quite differently. Thus, in the case of Todorovic, the acquisition of Agrokorova, the promises were great, the prosperity of Baranja will depend on investment and all that, it all came down to two farms built over the past 10 years and in the meantime the complete meat sector has been shut down, the meat industry of a thousand 200 workers has been shut down. That's where the people, so we're left in Baranja to load up the pigs and clean up the barn and the processing and finalization are done in Vrbovac. So that takes away the fact that you no longer have qualified butchers, that you no longer have a high school interest in these crafts and that pulls away many other things. Therefore, Baranja was always dependent on Belje, this time Baranja has no Belje, and so does the passing. That's how it goes, people move out, youth goes away, doesn't intend to come back because there's nowhere to go back. And the ones responsible for these kinds of policies, let them think about why one space people have always come to this time goes away. It's the first time in so long.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36198	Thank you. The next debate is representative Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36199	Thank you, Vice President. So despite this late hour, I have a personal capacity to talk about this legislative proposal and what's been going on in the last days in the Republic of Croatia. So we must be honest and admit to ourselves and to all those who see us that this legal proposal is actually made only for this case and only for Mr. Todorovic. What bothers me most as a parliamentary representative are the facts on which this legislative proposal is explained and based that it does not want to be understood significantly from the irrelevant. So the problem of Agrokor and a mastodon like this, which falls into financial difficulties, is not caused by one man's grammar but by the failure of the system. Today in the assembly, we have not heard at all about how lessons should be learned from the failure of the systems that led to this situation rather than from the consequences, i.e. we are looking for a solution allegedly to save employees to get salaries and allegedly to save suppliers. And for what, apparently? So Agrokor i.e. Konzum and all related companies operate in the area of the former entire Yugoslavia in Serbia, Slovenia, Macedonia and Bosnia. And you, when you're saving one company like that, then you're actually saving workers in a foreign country. It's clear that we need to save our jobs, but then we need to figure it out. On the other hand, when it comes to saving suppliers, then one illusion is once again created and the delusion that this law will save any supplier. On the contrary, all suppliers come into a debt slavery that they cannot come out of the fact that nearly 16 billion kunas were credited to Agrokor without the state authorities doing anything even though the bills were not paid within the prescribed deadlines, or 60 and 90 days. Why our suppliers here mention Franck, Kras and not mention Podravka, which is the backbone of the economy in the Koprivnica-križevci County, must be concerned. Because, say, Podravka's exposure to nearly a billion kunas waiting for her money from Konzum, she couldn't collect it, and she was selling her claims to companies that now that this law, if you adopt it, had no reason to go into effect, had no reason to wait, but would make her own regressive claims, so according to Podravka. Whether Podravka after the Spice affair, which is also directed in a political thriller, can survive this situation or can't show time. I am sure and concerned about employees of Podravka who have earned their bread, who have delivered their products to Konzum, and you want to pass a law according to which the Konzum does not have to pay them, and they will have to pay their obligations to the state because you have not passed these secondary laws that Mr. Lalovac spoke of. And I was just scared when I was going to impose this thesis on whether it would be understandable at all. I see that Mr. Lalovac's exposure makes it very clear that it is obvious and that this law does not save jobs, nor suppliers, but save capital. When the prime minister spoke during the day that it was about saving the economy, then it should have been concrete. It's not a commercial chain that someone will buy tomorrow, even for 10% of the value, but it's what agricultural production needs to be kept. We have over 20% of agricultural production related to Agrokor itself and there is our problem. But agricultural production is also mentioned so many times by small OPG food producers that no one cares about again and will be exposed either to the mercy or to the mercy of a religious council in which you do not forget the banks will have the authority and the state that has the laws so that they will act, block and destroy their own production. Why do I say that today I had an obligation and a duty to speak because when I was 19 years old, I was at war for this Croatia. I never mentioned it here. A lot of people here are called to those days, but when I saw this Mr. Cruz and his Santa Barbara crew walking around Croatia and giving statements to our media together with the prime minister, I didn't fight for it. And that's the saddest thing for you, here's my colleague Bully talking about her. It's when they hurt your sense of why people died and warred to allow your legal system to fail for 25 years, that Agrokor be your source of personnel for government and retirement, or storage for those of the manpower, and that you don't have any today, we've had so many laughs. I don't know sometimes people laugh at funerals. There was more seriousness on this man's face I'm going to call him Mr. Cruz and his crew than on many of the people responsible here who should be leading this country. I do not believe that this law will pass anything but legal disorder, because after an initial move that will be withdrawn if the law is adopted only then all those procedures that were to be conducted by bankruptcy proceedings will be intertwined. And one reason I'm going to appeal to all the representatives of both HDZ and SDP and those who thought, they didn't mean it. You can't pass laws like this until you've left the owner's entire property at his private disposal. You, or we make fools out of all the people who pay taxes fairly, who work in this country, do, which are the pillar, so the sustainability of this system, saying that someone doesn't have to do it, but at the same time you won't ask him, or temporarily freeze his property until you see what's going to be done. In this situation, both the Government and the Parliament should make decisive and state decisions, but there is obviously no change in the matrix in decision-making. And what my colleague Pernar says to you, it's always the same thing. He's actually talking about rocking the Titanic, and we're not going to roll it over, but we're going to go to an ice dream for sure. So, due to the possible collapse of the key industry in Koprivnica-Kristevina County, I cannot accept this legislative proposal. Among other things, Minister Maric comes from the company. If the state enters any arrangement related to this law related to Agrokora, I believe that Minister Maric must step down at the same time, and his statements that he did not know about the situation in Agrokor and Konzum are scandalous for a minister. And I'll just remind him that it's on the trail of 30 e-mails I've sent him, to make a decision on the imbalance of the budget of the Koprivnica-križevci County, for which it takes him almost 4 months, and where political games go again, by bending the laws even though as finance minister he should first and by letter apply every law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36200	Thank you. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36201	You said Mr. Lackovic, says Minister Maric didn't know. It's like you say from Djurjevac you don't know that you have camels there and sandstone, that's at the level of such a statement. So if he was there he had to know, if he didn't know, then he's incompetent, that's what I said to be the manager of the neighborhood consummation. What I'm saying is that today he's here from the HDZ ranks, I think I have two people present. So two people from HDZ are attending this debate. Why am I telling you this? Because the next day all these benches, all these rows, all these chairs will be full of bots, I call them bots. These are handlifters and quorum keepers who will vote this law mechanically without being aware of its consequences, and that is unfortunately the reality. Croatian voters should also know and wonder, why these people give their votes and what benefit they have from these people, and even those HDZs that the boss has arrested and they will get hurt because the boss has pulled everything apart. And this Agrokor, that concert, I called it a monster, which devoured everything in front of me, and I remember when he said that 1/3 Baranja Kopački ass, 1/3 of it, and 1/3 of it is the little OPG's words that piss him off because they're uncompetitive. He wanted to destroy everything, devour everything and take everything himself. And instead of dismembering that monster, that normally divides that the economy can function as much, this government is trying to put it together as Frankenstein, and it has nothing to do with each other. And this one got into that combination of his so I wouldn't say what, half the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36202	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36203	So, by my personal court, Minister Maric has discredited the entire process of passing this law, and I still feel it is necessary to step down if this law is passed. What is the most tragic consequence of this whole process is that by saving Todorovic, we are going to lose both Podravka and Kraš and all these healthy companies that should function and which in one normal legal process could at least partially charge and survive. And this is how we're going to get stories about continental Croatia, about rich Slavonia and Podravina, about investing, about having a wall around Agrokor, I guess it's going to be a wall around Baranja, so it won't have to be built by Hungarian companies, given that Hungarians are our biggest creditors, we'll be able to sell them that wall when they take 20 thousand acres of land owned by Belja, Vupika and PIK Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36204	Thank you very much. Next replica Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36205	Dear colleague Lackovic. So I'm interested in one of your opinions, and then I'll confirm that I agree with one of your claims. First, I don't know how much you're interested in bankruptcy laws, exchange rate procedures, etc. But this is what I think because I've been doing a little bit in my life, I'm not an expert lawyer, but I've been involved in some bankruptcy proceedings, this is a substitute of bankruptcy law. Therefore, it provides certain different situations in relation to the bankruptcy law which has the pre-demand settlement procedure and the opening of bankruptcy. As a rule, the bankruptcy law protects the creditors and protects the debtor only if it is in the public interest, if it comes to production, if it is the welfare of society, etc. has a debt tolerance and does not go into liquidation, such is the concept of the bankruptcy law. By your judgment, does this law have the same characteristics, is it in the same way or more protecting the debtor in your opinion? And what I wanted to confirm with you, it can't be that the finance minister in a country like this, no matter how serious or inconclusive, he says he didn't know. The government of the Republic of Croatia and the ministries have every possible institute available to find out everything. I've been messing with Minister Mrsic in time about some things in our government, says I doubt something. You have nothing to doubt, check, the minister has everything at his disposal, the whole arsenal of procedures to check the financial liquidity, not to say everything. Therefore, I agree fully with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36206	Thank you, colleague Hrelja. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36207	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. So my court as a lawyer can only be such that it is a legally unsettled act of law, but we have become great masters in making such acts. A good part of it was spoken by a colleague named Lalovac, so by applying this law you block all the believers in their business, not to help them and you can run a far greater cycle of default both towards the state and to suppliers and a huge number of blockades, as the factoring market exploded in 2015 and doubled in six months that year, and in 2016 it doubled again. So all the living were selling their claims that couldn't be charged by the Konzum, and now it's all going to be regressed from those companies that are still stable today. So I don't think this is any legal solution, especially if you're going to let all those banks in the religious council who are now saying we didn't have the right papers, so we approved the loans, and the banks had a very good insight because they were counting very high interest rates, high interest is accounted for at the time when you know that your debtor is in trouble. And these banks, instead of being punished, have enormous penalties because they are those who have re-credited one subject on one market, you will give them their hands so that those in the religious council decide whether or not, say, the Podravci will pay for the veget or the winters delivered and will not question their claims. So you're right, this is neither close to a quality nor a complete solution as a bankruptcy law and it will only cause problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36208	Thank you. We're going to the last two debates on behalf of the clubs. In the name of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36209	Dear Members of Parliament who are present, the Croatian peoples who watch this. It's my duty as an agent to tell you the truth and only the truth and the truth is so that the loans can't be returned. I talk about it all the time, nobody listens to me. I'll tell you one shocking piece of information. Total loans to business entities in Croatia according to CNB data were issued to about 100 billion kuna businesses, meaning business entities. Of those 100 billion kuna loans that have been issued, 25 of them cannot be returned. And that means 25%, until the other day. Now that Agrokor falls even 45 billion kunas of his credits will also not be able to return, or it will be insurmountable that we get to the number 25+45, we get to the number of 70 billion kuna, out of 100 billion kuna that it can't be returned. Which will say that bad loans are those that can't return to entrepreneurship 70 percent. Dear ladies and gentlemen 70%, the state cannot repay loans, nor can state-owned companies HZ, shipyards, highways, etc. And you're wondering where this is going, so it leads to disaster. As much as I look forward to the fact that Todorovic failed, the problem is that Todorovic began to draw money only when he realized where the whole story was going, when he realized that this was all doomed and that no work and production in Croatia paid off. And for that reason, this restructuring is not going to get results because we are simply all doomed in this country. And a lot of people said what you weren't paying back, we were paying back. Yeah, you were coming back, but until when? Until the moment you were fired, until the moment Hanžekovic sat down at your neck, etc., etc. If this economic model continues, we'll have a sale of the entire state property, we'll lose everything, the INA is sold to the Hungarians, you know, ma will be sold everything. The simple state will act as Antonio Alvarez, meaning Minister Maric's role in the Croatian government is like Antonio Alvarez in Agrorez, to sell out as quickly and as quickly as possible. It's their job. And for that reason, because of that man-eating monetary model that makes loans invaluable. And why are they invaluable? I repeat as a parrot, because money for interest payments doesn't exist. That's why we're all falling apart. And until that changes, until the CNB ceases to be a currency exchange, until the state starts financing directly from the CNB without borrowing, until that moment, we will be sinking as a society and the people will move out and flee our country. I'd love to, too, i.e. The media says Pernar's lying, Pernar's talking nonsense, Pernar's a clown, Pernar's a circus boy. Okay, where I'm lucky this is all I'm telling a lie, where I'm lucky Prime Minister Plenkovic has a rescue solution, a rabbit from his sleeve, where I'm lucky I'm mistaken, where I'm lucky the credits are repayable. There I was, I remember, sitting instead of Minister Dalic Minister Maric when he assured me that the debt could be paid back by taking new loans. And I asked him, so Mr. Maric, it just increased the debt, he said no, not like that's all okay. Well, yeah, that's that business practice he took over from Agrokor. He was told by the same boss in Agrokor that the loan was returned by taking the new loan. So what? Where did that end? I remember when Minister Dalic came in, now she's in the role of economy minister, says I'll continue as Suker did. They were changing people, so they all went on with the same policy. Ask the Croatian people where this policy has led you. And if it has led you astray, ask yourselves, "When are the elections for whom you will vote?" You can make fun of me in the election, you don't have to vote for me, you can all vote for the parties who are in power, who run that policy as you testify, you know what it is, HDZ and MOST, you can also vote for your SDP colleagues, you've seen their policy, they've said 500 new jobs open a week or a month, and in reality 500 young people, i.e. leaving the country. It's all one big media manipulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36210	Thank you. And the last club, representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36211	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Government. Here, all day we've been actually discussing the bill's proposal which is actually the product of a very serious and difficult situation where we are and definitely many of these catastrophic stories that are told today in this assembly really sound very bad and I don't think we have the right to this kind of law... and this is for the sole reason that we should give it a chance, therefore, to give the situation as much as possible to stabilize in Agrokor and that debtor, in fact, that entity that is burdened with these great problems to try to get out of it and find one solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because I don't agree with all those who said there's a law being done here for one man and it's the law for one company only. This is a group of 70 companies and these 70 companies bind themselves to tens and tens of thousands of employees. This law also provides for the possibility that, if it is possible to stabilise, it will be restructured within 12 to 15 months to continue operations and that, after such a period, it will begin to settle its obligations ahead. Clearly, there is a very important creditor who would come and find interest in these 12 months and see that Agrokor is actually doing it. We see that these creditors who are interested in all the interests of Agrokor group survival and to start living normally, because the alternative is actually bankruptcy, and the bankruptcy we know how complex it is in Croatia, and we know what these bankruptcy procedures are, how formalized are the extreme lawsuits, the decisive lawsuits, the disputes of investigations in court and never the end. And imagine a bankruptcy of 70 companies in Croatia? Imagine how dispersed it is and how difficult it is in principle to implement it at all. And so I don't know if this law will even create a possibility of finding some kind of lender. As we can see for now, creditors exist, come forward, some deals are trying to reach and how the media is writing on some good leads. However, the situation if it went bankrupt, then it would really be devastating for me to think of everything. Because in bankruptcy, it's hard to charge the believers in some significant amount and it's hard to actually bring good to anyone. As far as Agrokora is concerned we can talk about history whether it was well managed, whether it wasn't managed, whether or not I should know someone under some other procedure, but we have a problem today one giant, one super difficult man on our market is actually close to kneeling, to fall, and if that happens then it's actually a big earthquake that will have its own waves and that will have its reflections on many actually subjects. Let's imagine that in a shorter time, people will lose their wages. From these salaries there is no contribution to pension and health and from these salaries there is no contribution to any of our new trends in improving personal spending, which in turn fills the budget, and when we don't have a full budget, when we don't actually have pension and health funds then we all know what reflections are. Of course, I agree with all those who pointed out what was really going on and there should certainly learn lessons and certainly think about some different model for the future that would actually bring good. However, such situations are not even something that is not happening in the world. It happens in other countries, therefore, and this law has been made in accordance with some comparative experiences of other countries. However, Agrokor Group is very strong and we see actually how much it means to the economy of the Republic of Croatia. I see this law as one option and if this possibility is used and if that possibility that after a year we can actually have a company that works further, it will be good. If not, there are other scenarios that aren't so good. We, on behalf of the HDZ Club, will uphold the law. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] We have three amendments that actually improve the law and strengthen workers' rights in achieving their demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36212	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first is representative Željko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36213	Thank you, Vice President. So, on behalf of the promoter, I would like you to explain to me whether Mr. Todorovic will freely dispose of his property and what the difference between his status according to the proposed law and the Pevec family, which was led before the judge in handcuffs, since they sold among other things at the amortised price of three vehicles from their own company in which they had 100% ownership and did not pay their profits unlike Mr. Todorovic, so that you could compose that part. And tell me how you protected Podravka workers by this law that they get their salary, or if Podravka can say now I'm willing to risk, I won't be a supplier anymore, I want my new dealers, I'll sell through some other stores, I'll realize that risk to a billion kuna I have in there drowned. When regressing charges against her and telling you if you know why Podravka was in her earlier history, so when it was a distraction to Mr. Todorovic closed her slaughterhouse, so the meat industry of Danica and the production of water, so Studenac and Bakery. So, you must be aware that this problem with Mr. Todorovic and his uncontrolled spread of mastodon are caused problems and before and you will not stop them now but you will only potential them and you have not in any way protected the suppliers who are now staying in slavery and now your Podravka where you have 25% and you have re-occupied, setting your people inside worth not two billion as much as it was enough to make a highway, or fast road from Crosses to Koprivnica, but it will be worth 10 times less than 20 million to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36214	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36215	Comrade Lackovic, is there any property that will be frozen, whether it fits, brought in or something like that I can't tell you? That's what people who actually work in the authorities can tell you. I'm sure you know very well that the founders of the company don't match their assets for the company's obligations, so that's what's here. But we have in the Company Act a provision that says, unless they're right to abuse it. So there's a case law where if they were found to have been misused, there's been an operation in their property. As for Podravka workers as well as all other creditors, they have an interest in Agrokor continuing to work, they have an interest in Agrokor Group finding some lender and in this period of 12 months this government commissioner appointed by the court on a proposal from the Government, then he has the right precisely for reasons not to have systemic threats determine how he will finance the creditors. And clearly he gets consent to that and from the court he gets consent from the religious council. And in the religious council, the religious council has appointed the believers in their legal position, and the religious council does not vote by the size of the demand, but one vote goes to the religious council. And I believe exactly because the government is setting up this commissioner who sends reports to both the government and the court and the ministry that he must have that feeling and that he must bear in mind what you said should in principle calm those believers so that no wider and bigger problems are created. And for a year, I think it's one period in which either a creditor will be found at the beginning or if he won't be, then you and I both know it's going bankrupt, and in bankruptcy you know all the procedures and how complex they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36216	Time. Next replica, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36217	Thank you. My colleague Bošnjakovic, I listened very carefully to you, so during your presentation, you said that the alternative to this law was bankruptcy. So it's not. We gave you a proposal in front of the SDP and what needs to be changed to make it work. On the other hand, also from your words, and from the words of your colleague Bačić, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club today, I also conclude that you are indeed going on an adventure and taking us all on this journey with you. So you don't know if there's going to be a loan, who's going to find an interest in it at all, whether there's an interest. And third, what you haven't answered in the entire debate all day is the consequences of the application of this law. No one answered all day. So something tells you about it, my colleague Lalovec, and I think the first questions that need to be asked are how to solve small suppliers, how to preserve jobs existing, how to avoid the responsibility of the state, how to preserve the state budget, which will be very difficult and how to help companies in the final business with Agrokor and are exposed to Agrokor. So this bill doesn't exactly answer these questions, either of these questions. And I think we're all gonna get together in a big, big problem, a big problem. I'm sorry about that, I wish this situation were going differently, we don't want any of us to use it for some petty political purposes, I don't care what happens to Todorovic, he's just one of, so I don't care. But I'm very interested in what's going to happen with 50 or 150 thousand jobs, I'm interested in it because of these jobs. depends and pensions, depends and salaries, depends on salaries in state services, etc., etc., etc., etc. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36218	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36219	Dear colleague Vidovic. Well, we are already in trouble. So we're witnessing a number of blockades of these companies that are actually members of the Agrodor Group, the supplier's blockages, all of this is current, all of it is alive today, so the problem exists. We are this law, the government offers as an opportunity for a solution in a way that allows the group in a year to find the funds, to find a loan from which it would lead and operate, but it could evenly solve suppliers who could then live in that year and afterwards could continue their business. That's what this law offers. What counterpart Bacic said on behalf of the club, an alternative to that if it is not available is bankruptcy and there is no other alternative. And bankruptcy means chaos, bankruptcy of 70 companies in one short period in Croatia, it is really one situation that we can hardly control and that has reflections like I said, and you have now said that on salaries and on contributions to pensions and on contributions to health and budget revenues, and at the moment when the state has a positive macroeconomic indicators. I want to believe this because you can see from the media that there are creditors who, along with other creditors, want to make that agreement, but that agreement must be concluded by all the believers to make it effective. This is one different position, so if the government proposes to appoint its commissioner, if I am in debt to carry out this procedure, it is then another soft procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36220	Thank you. And another replica, I hope last tonight, Agent Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36221	Dear colleague Bosnjakovic. Here's how the same situation, so fear for the fate of people for the functioning of the pension, health care system can produce two different attitudes. Your position to advocate this law, and my position to be very careful about the extent of this law and to ask for what else should be fixed in order to be effective. I am pleased that none of us today have advocated bankruptcy as a possible variant but to help in a comprehensive way, so not to help one structure without leaving out another structure or putting it at risk. I have a satisfaction because you have definitely admitted to me Mr. Bošnjakovic that this is Lex Agrokor and that it is in the focus of Agrokor concert at the moment and that this is a reason and that this is the reason for the adoption of this law and only after there are such companies. And third thing, you said and other countries had problems like this. I agree. FIAT was the problem of the Republic of Italy with its poorer technology, with everything and became a day pair. And just as Mr. Todorovic was a partner to the Republic of Croatia. But the partnership implies responsibility for the functioning of the state and public interest in the first plan rather than personal interest, and then to play and endanger everything. So FIAT offered solutions and the Republic of Italy found solutions and helped FIAT. I wouldn't have minded anything, I wouldn't have said anything today if he had a year ago and he had to know there was trouble coming up and told the government we're partners, you're giving help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36222	After this... Replication response. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36223	And look, one or two, it's no big difference. My colleague Hrelja, I would call this law not lex Agrokor but lex 150 thousand people actually who need help. And all day listening to this debate in Parliament, I haven't heard any more competent suggestions than what's on the table. We're actually listening all the time to criticise the management of what's been in history, all the time we've been listening to some kind of, uh, forecasts of a negative, bad future, but I seriously haven't heard any suggestion where I would choose between two or three variants today except what the government did. Whether it ends well either like this or in bankruptcy we'll see it, it'll show time. What you and I both know is that there are interests of some creditors, that Agrokor is actually held up, to rise up, to move on. If that's not there, then you and I both know what's beyond destiny and how much it's going to reflect. I wish we had a few variations here today but we have this one and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36224	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll continue work today at 10 o'clock. We begin with the point Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Legal Consequences of Conviction, Criminal Records and Rehabilitation. The vote will be sometime around 12 hours and to you who have been most durable I wish you good night, sleep quickly. The session was interrupted at 01:05 PM
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36225	We continue with the vote. The first item is the Final Proposal for a Law on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 116. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to ask the first esteemed MPs to check the quorum. I find that there is a quorum, and that we can rightly decide. Amendments to this proposal for the law have been submitted: Legislative Committee, HNS, HSU and HDZ Representatives' Club. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Martina Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The first amendment is by the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36226	The government accepts all amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36227	This means that these amendments become the final draft law. The next amendment is by HNS, HSU. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36228	The government accepts amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36229	And this amendment becomes the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36230	The government does not accept amendment number two since Amendment number two provides for the strengthening of the advisory body in the extraordinary administration process and represents a certain reduction in the role of the religious council. The government does not accept this because the advisory body, a professional body, is composed of people of high reputation whose role is intended to be advisory. The government also does not accept this amendment because it envisions strengthening the role of the extraordinary commissioner, and again at the heart of the religious council. This amendment is therefore contrary to a large part of yesterday's debate in which the Croatian People's Party's Croatian National Party representatives, HSU, expressed concerns about the excessive role of both the state and the extraordinary Commissioner, and the amendment cannot therefore be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36231	Does the representative of the amendment proposer want to take the floor? Representative Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36232	Thank you very much, President. So it would be good to read the amendment before we reject it in this way, because among other things, we suggested that an extraordinary commissioner cannot decide not only on 3.5 million kunas of assets in the process of restructuring and stabilisation, the activation of these laws, or that he cannot decide himself on financial transactions greater than ten million kunas. So in the proposal, we've limited the amounts he can work on his own free will, and here, in an explanation, we get as if we've given him more power. And in the very idea of the amendment it was that we were trying to find a model in which, even if the Advisory Council also appointed by the Ministry of Economy, but in one key where, besides the worker who was in the bill, they also enter into some structures and creditors of small suppliers and creditors of large suppliers and financial institutions and, together with the workers, they made an advisory council which, together with a religious confirmation of the decisions of the extraordinary administration. So, the explanation that we are giving him more authority, it absolutely does not stand. But okay. You have made a political decision to refuse this amendment, so you will also suffer the consequences of the functioning of this law. But don't ask us in the reasons for refusing to speak the facts that don't stand, because I don't see any way that we are in our proposal, these are the alternative facts that have happened in both Croatia and the world for a long time, I don't see any place where an extraordinary commissioner would get more authority... the proposal, however, we limited it to ten million kuna of financial transactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36233	Are you looking for a vote? I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote whether Amendment 2 of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-HSU is to be included in the final draft of the law? [[Intruder Vrdoljak: Looking for a vote, yes.]] The vote is over. That amendment did not receive a sufficient majority to be included in the final draft law and thus is rejected. Amendment number 3 also comes from the HNS-HSU's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36234	Amendment number 3 is not accepted by the government. The government does not accept this amendment, given that I repeat, the advisory body is an expert body whose purpose, whose aim is to be composed of people who, by their competences and their knowledge, can advise the ministry on the work of the extraordinary commissioner and its expertise, follow this work. This is why the text of the laws and regulations and what qualifications must be given to persons who are members of the advisory body, and the advisory body is intended to have a representative of the workers. Therefore, the advisory body is not a Religious Council, and I would particularly like to stress that what concerns small suppliers and putting small suppliers in the context of this law is not a proper view, because the basic objective of this law is to pay off the dues until the time of opening the extraordinary administration procedure and the possibility of making this payment quickly and efficiently, which means that it is precisely small suppliers that will be the first to be paid in the extraordinary administration process and therefore will not function in this process as creditors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36235	Does the motionary's representative want to give his explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36236	Thank you very much. I would really like these spoken words to happen and really small suppliers to be paid first and then we don't have a problem, then with smaller suppliers who then in the process that started still have to deliver, and they don't know where they're going. So what's the problem if one of them sits on the Advisory Council? If we are not already in the power of the Advisory Council to condition some decisions to an extraordinary commissioner, is it such a problem for people who have managed to pay off the claim, but who continue to deliver and who are interested in the situation in the stabilisation and restructuring process to sit in the Advisory Council? I don't understand, but it's also a legitimate decision of yours. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36237	I would like to ask the honourable MPs and MPs to approach the vote whether Amendment 3 by the HNS Representatives' Club is to be included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. That amendment did not obtain a sufficient majority to be included in the final draft law. Amendment number 4, also from the HNS-HSU's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36238	The Government does not accept this amendment because the proposed amendment narrows down a circle of responsible persons in a society who can submit a proposal to open the extraordinary administration procedure. The narrowing of the number of persons who can submit a proposal for the opening of the extraordinary administration procedure is not in line with the spirit and purpose of this law, since, among other things, all members of the administration are collectively responsible for the business of the company and are responsible under the Law on Commercial Companies to act according to the principle of good lord. Therefore, all members of the administration, as well as each individual member of the administration, must be able and must be aware that he is responsible for his actions under the Commercial Society Act and that, under the Commercial Society Act, he must care for the welfare of the society by the care of a good master. This includes the protection of the company of employees and employment in the event that any of the members of the management under their responsibilities considers that the reasons set out in paragraph 4 of this Act have been fulfilled. Therefore, the proposal to reduce the number of persons who can submit this request cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36239	Is there a representative who wants to take a word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36240	Yes, thank you very much. I'll read only the text in the law first. The proposal to open the extraordinary administration procedure on behalf of the debtor is therefore authorised to submit to the person or persons authorised to represent the debtor under the law. Naturally, normally it should be. The third paragraph says, "A member of the Supervisory Board of Debtants if there are no persons authorised to represent debtors under the law." That's also good. If we do not have an authorised member of the Supervisory Board, not the chairman of the Supervisory Board, not most members of the Supervisory Board, but one member of the Supervisory Board. And then we open the door that one person can make very important decisions not only for society, but for the economic and financial stability of the Republic of Croatia. Why do we close the door for a problem that may not be an authorised person by law, but individually carries responsibility to the collective body, and individually it can make such a difficult decision. And we just wanted to help out on maybe a little nicer constitutionality because it can happen that someone who is not authorized, but is part of the collective body makes a very, very important decision and for the Republic of Croatia not only for the company.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36241	I would like to ask respected MPs and MPs to approach the vote whether Amendment 4 of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU, is to be included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. Amendment number four did not get enough votes to be included in the final draft law. Amendment number five. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36242	The Government does not accept Amendment 5 because Amendment 5 is, in a certain way, a retroactive act of laws that would allow the demand of banks that were created before the opening of the extraordinary administration procedure, that these claims may also be paid at the time when the extraordinary commissioner is taking the loan to pay off suppliers, or those who have the demand for goods and services. This proposal is contrary to the spirit of the law, and all the claims made by suppliers during this period are secured and their ability to pay is secured by the original statement in this article. Therefore, we do not consider such an amendment and such a change necessary since we hold that it opens up the possibility of going in favour of banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36243	Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36244	In favour of banks today, we have a situation where suppliers say they won't last another few days. It takes at least a week for this law to be activated, at least a week. Only then can those who wish to provide funding be able to collect certain claims to suppliers, and in our proposal, we said that all those who had issued goods the last 30 days prior to the opening of the procedure and even financed the company at times when they were not protected because the law was not activated to take them into account. Because we want to invite people to feed the system, to start believing that we're stabilising the situation, to send a message to deliver today's goods, last week, or you'll be in charge after opening the procedure. Is there a primary interest, so in the last month there are those who have stopped delivering, that they have used the system or not used. There are those who continued delivery. Whether those who continued should have donkeys come in or not. And we just wanted to help take into account the period of crisis when there was no legal framework nor in bankruptcy, nor in this lex, the law for those who worked affirmably in this crisis situation. And it can't be in favour of banks, it can be exclusively in favour of those who are on the questionnaire today whether the salaries will pay or buy raw materials for their production system, and suppliers are a system. Because nowhere else, money can't even go to any financial institution. But my God, if we don't want to help these people today who want to help this system, we're also taking responsibility for what's going to happen, you know when? Friday and Monday I'm looking for a vote. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36245	I ask MPs and MPs to approach the vote whether Amendment Five should be included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that Amendment number five did not get enough votes to be included in the final draft of the law. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36246	The government does not accept Amendment Six because the fundamental objective of this law is to ensure the stability of Croatia's economic and financial system in the event of deep financial difficulties and the emergence of bankruptcy and pre-banking reasons for systemically significant companies. In achieving this objective, this law achieves a balance between the effectiveness of achieving the stated objective and respecting the principle of legality and constitutionality. We believe that the adoption of Amendment 6 would create broad problems in relation to the constitutionality of this law, since it proposes a wide intervention in contractual relations between third parties who cannot clearly identify the limits and cannot clearly determine the effects of their legality. Therefore, the Government does not accept Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36247	Does the representative of the amendment proposer want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36248	Thank you very much. Here we have also heard about this law that is truly constitutionally critical, but I don't give myself the right as a graduate electrical engineer to evaluate constitutionality, I guess it will have relevant ones to take care of it, that the government is calling for the constitutionality of an amendment, and the amendment has been going in the direction of truth that's been going on for the last five days. We are talking here that the reason for refusing amendments is the spirit of the law and the fundamental objective of the law, and the laws should probably reflect on what is happening in the real world. In the real world, suppliers are not only unpaid but are charged with regressive obligations. And if we have already said in Article 41 that we are not allowed to launch litigative, executive, administrative and insurance procedures as well as out-of-court charges against debtors and their dependent and related companies, we have protected the debtor, and our urgency was to try to protect the suppliers who are now under a regressive burden in one item. But if the law is established in all points, and this is just too fragile, then we really need to ask ourselves that one item can be so unconstitutional, and 50 articles that are constitutionally critical are absolutely constitutional. That's why I'm sorry we didn't accept this amendment. In fact, the second part of the amendment has no particular reason to explain, but imagine a third party being damaged during the process of falling on a forkhead, he has no right to have someone break his car out of the Agrokor system, while the manager is there, he has no right to any compensation during the course of the proceedings. So why?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36249	Time. Are you asking to vote on the proposed amendment? ... Dear MPs and MPs, would you like to join the vote if Amendment 6 by the HNS-HSU Club were included in the final draft of the law? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not obtained enough votes to be included in the final draft law. The next amendment is by the HDZ Representatives Club, Amendment 1. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36250	The Government accepts Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36251	This amendment is therefore included in the final proposal for a law. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36252	The Government accepts Amendment 2 in view of the fact that the results of yesterday's debate are accepted in the section, and the procedures that can be opened during the extraordinary administration are excluded from administrative procedures and procedures concerning working relations are excluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36253	This and this amendment become the final draft of the law. Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36254	The Government accepts Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36255	This and the 3rd amendment shall be included in the final draft law. Thank you. Be my guest, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36256	Mr President, given that the adopted amendments to the HDZ Club in one very important part have changed the content of the law, the SDP Representatives Club is asking for a break in the shortest time allowed to consult on the vote on the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36257	Representative Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36258	Thank you, Mr. President. The HNS-HSU Club is also seeking a break in the vote on that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36259	Mr. Bačić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36260	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDZ Club is also seeking a break to further explain the amendments we have submitted to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36261	If there are no other interested parties, I'm setting a ten-minute break. It's 1:00 a.m. I ask esteemed MPs to take their seats so we can continue our work. Honorable MPs and MPs, please take your seats once more. We're going back to work. Three clubs called for a break. The first club to report is the SDP Representatives' Club. In their name will be spoken by MP Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36263	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the reason for the break is the facts that emerged after last night's meeting in the government and which result in amendments being submitted by the Croatian Democratic Community club, in particular the amendment one. Amendment one is trying to introduce two things. The first amendment speaks of the fact that the government itself does not believe that it will succeed in this process, which is visible from the very text of the amendment. And on the other hand, it speaks of the fact that those who give the money first will now be able to collect later on from the property of Agrokor. It is a status that no one in Croatia has ever had before. So this is a precedent. You on this door, such as the "Riječka trpica" Rijeka taken from Austria-Hugarska, Rijeka taken from Croatia, means like "Riječka trpica" Rijeka taken from Croatia in 1868 you try to take away Croatian forests, fields, farms, Croatian sources from Croatian people and thus get rid of some of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Are you aware of what you're doing with this amendment? We have proposed a solution that has been proposed under the existing law by ensuring additional liquidity, protecting workers in Croatia, protecting workers in the Agrokor concert and, above all, protecting those who cannot protect themselves and these are small suppliers – farmers, vegetables, fruit farmers, all those who cannot protect their rights in this process. You didn't agree to that solution, but you suggested today five to twelve, and on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, which I believe many people would know what this is about today would not raise their hand. You have transferred the full responsibility of the Government to the HDZ Representatives' Club and HDZ representatives through this amendment. And now they're going to have to take the party path to raise their hand. The full responsibility of the government is now in your hands to HDZ. That those who now pay first money can be charged from Croatian fields, Croatian plains, from Croatian sources, so that they can be charged from Croatian property. By signing this amendment yourself, you admit that you will not succeed in your intention. That's terrible. You cannot and this is our message in this way and with this amendment to vote this law by workers and workers in Croatia in Agrokor, small suppliers, farmers, vegetables, fruit growers, you leave meat producers at the mercy of large capital and you bind the fate of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36264	HNS's club, HSU, also called for a break. In their name will be spoken representative Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Croatian People's Party and HSU club will vote against this law for several reasons. First, we don't think he's gonna solve the problems in Agrokor and stabilize the situation. Secondly, I think that the damage caused by the late reaction cannot be resolved by this law, it is constitutionally questioned and the late reaction has also produced quite an uncontrollable reaction of the factors throughout the process of this situation in Agrokor. And that late reaction produced that the shares of all these companies, not to us but to those shareholders of the shares fell by 20, 30, 40%, that the company was blocked, and that every day the suppliers were getting harder and harder to support without new funds. Today RBA blocked suppliers and gave them the standsteel argument that we signed regarding Agrokor, does not apply to suppliers and regressive rights, and now we have proposed in the amendment that we try to protect these people. And the bank does its job and says we signed for the system, and for those of you who deliver the equipment we didn't sign, and that's what's happening today. If we had reacted a month ago or 26.1 when we received the first statement by Minister of Finance Zdravko Marić who said, I know the situation in the company, I worked there, I know the situation, and now as Minister I follow the situation, do not be afraid of bankruptcy 26.1., which message is not bad at the time when the rating of Moodys falls to calm down. But after that message, it has to start working. So in public you say something to calm the situation, but then you do a job with short-term measures, financing suppliers or coordinating deals with all the stakeholders of this process. But nothing was done by humans. We warned a month ago, showed an initiative, something worth a month ago is no longer worth it, something worth two months ago today is no longer worth it, and even something worth it four days ago is no longer worth it. And this law, ultimately, creates the possibility of a pretty big grab by the company itself, neglecting the needs of all suppliers both small and large, and we do not need to use only the small supplier's arrive for populist reasons, but I'm not sure how these people will be saved from this process. But what is most dangerous to me, which is Article 37, to the legal consequences of opening the extraordinary administration procedure in a proper way, rules on the legal consequences of opening a bankruptcy procedure prescribed by a special law governing bankruptcy, unless this law is defined otherwise, and is not. What does that mean to us people? This means that we are opening up a space for judicial proceedings and international arbitration against the Republic of Croatia, all those who find a legal position or legal opinion or a basis in this law and in measures that the activation of this law puts their rights at risk and damages to these proceedings will be paid by the citizens of Croatia. And as far as we think now and as much as you promised us that no kuna from the budget, not a single kuna of Croatian citizens will pay for other people's debts, with the adoption of this law we open the door for Croatian citizens to pay for the lawsuits and arbitration of those who will initiate them. So a dozen of these reasons I've listed, and the key is time and speed that weren't understood 26.1. Someone here was uninformed or bad or ignorant or whatever, but it's all bad. For these ten reasons, we do not want to take responsibility for the law that we are convinced will not solve the problems that are in the consortium today and all related companies in this case. Unfortunately, we've missed the time, we've been dealing with archives, past committees, local campaigns, and a month ago, we've made ourselves available from the opposition to sit at the table together, and if it takes us seven days to get out of the office until we see what the solution is. We missed our chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36266	Thank you. The HDZ advocates' club also called for a break. In their name will be the representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36267	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would refer to the presidents or colleagues of the SDP president in the section in which he warns representatives of the HDZ Club and the Croatian public about the harmfulness of such an amendment and calls us out if we are aware of what we are doing. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Bernardic, if you're aware of what you just said. I believe that part of your club was uncomfortable while you were taking it out. So I'll tell you for what reason. Therefore, the aim of this law is to stabilise the business and continue the business of a system firm whose bankruptcy by stopping business can disrupt the financial security of the state and can significantly disrupt the national economy. In order for the company to continue to operate, it is necessary to open the procedure for the extraordinary administration to provide fresh resources. At that point in time that someone would give that credit when the company is in a position not to continue on its own... the business is looking for a guarantee because it gives at the most difficult moment for that company to give significant money. And for this reason, it is absolutely certain that the legislator must ensure that these funds are seniorised, not only through the extraordinary administration procedure, but if the extraordinary administration procedure fails and all of this together ends up in bankruptcy seeking security and at that point, and that is the HDZ amendment. Therefore, in order to continue to enable the payment to continue, and firstly small suppliers, so that they can continue to provide and deliver goods and services to the debtor, we need to provide funds. And in order to secure the means of those who deliver these funds, they must have that sense of security and that is what this law provides. You talk about forests, you talk about fields, you talk about water sources. Because you know what the current obligation is if we talk about Agrokor to the banks? 5 billion euros, 5 billion euros. And if this law had not been passed and this law had not been passed and the bankruptcy of what would have happened? This would be done in order for the creditors to settle from the property of the debtors. And now you're trying to convince us, I don't want to calculate and I don't know, I don't have that information as much as this new loan that's going to have... can be as high as it can be. But in any case much, much, much smaller than the current debt to the debtors' loans to the banks. And I see here now you're scaring the Croatian public that if these new funds come into the company if I say they'll be, I can't, ten times smaller than the basic depth of the banks, it'll mean the transfer of assets that the company can have concession on because this second one is owned. Therefore, it was not the property of the Republic of Croatia, but private property anyway. Therefore, it is not good in this way to provide information that I am sure you too know that you are cheating on the public. I'm sure you know that. I can't imagine that the SDP Club would be fully aware of that and knowing that it's not true. So we're only talking about one part of the funds ten times smaller than what this same company owes the banks. And now, watch out for these dozens of funds that will allow you to at least try to save the company, continue regular business, pay off small suppliers now is a problem. It would be really funny if it wasn't sad. Therefore, in this sense, this amendment was ours, and other amendments went towards the protection of workers in the work dispute section if accidents at work or something else happened during the extraordinary administration procedure. so that workers can be paid off. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36268	Thank you. Representative Bernardic, you said he was a broken Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36269	Dear President of the Parliament. Article 238 was broken because in his speech, the promoter demeaned and insulted. On the other hand, what he did was he talked about not talking at all about the purpose and the reasoning of the law, but essentially calling for the opposition. So what you have to say after this After Mr. Bačić's exposure to the Rules of Procedure, it is clear that the system company law [[/Adversary President: Representative Bernardić, please clear, exact. Honorable MPs, I would like to ask for peace in the assembly.]] become a systemic error of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder President: Do not use the Institute of Violation...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-05-0.u36270	... Rules of Procedure. If a person has broken the Rules of Procedure, state exactly how he was belittled. Unless there's an institute of replicas as soon as he's possible. It's not possible at this point. We're moving on. I am voting on the final draft law on the procedure of extraordinary management in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. Please, come on, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that with 83 votes for, 2 abstentions and 46 against the adoption of the Act on the procedure of extraordinary administration in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, together with the amendments adopted.
