ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24884	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I can see my hands up already. Dear Representative Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24885	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Representatives and SNAGA Club, I am looking for a break to talk about the State Agency for Deposit Insurance, and in light of the resolutional administration it has also set up in the Adriatic Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24886	Thank you. Which other club has an irresistible need for an opinion? There isn't. Thank you very much. Then I'll see you at 9 and 40. Thank you very much. It's 9:00.35. My colleagues and colleagues, we're running out of time, so please let's take our seats. I will ask on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24888	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. A few weeks ago, I was talking about the State Deposit Insurance Agency, which is one of the most important strategic agencies in the Republic of Croatia and its director, Maria Hrebac, whose mandate expired a year ago, has now been completed for a year, which has created unprofessional and poor working conditions in the agency, and has, among other things, come into a multiple conflict of interest and in some ways, accidentally spent the assets of the agency, including for its own needs. It was condemned by the Committee for Conflict of Interest for Co-operation in the work of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank and the Sun Croatian, and after the decision of the Committee for Conflict of Interest and the functions had to leave, but the money did not return it, so it only paid the fine of seven thousand kuna, so that it was later discovered that in fact all the time in the audit board of the Croatian Bank means today five more years parallel to the office of the director of the DAB and thus the state budget was damaged for some 400 to 500 thousand kuna, looking all together in gross amounts. I would like to say that this amount corresponds to the amount charged by the representative of the Sauch who was sanctioned very strictly, and nothing is done here. Also these days, we witnessed the arrest of the former Adriatic Bank Administration, which led the bank until 2015 when it was removed and when the recovery board was placed in that bank by the State Deposit Insurance Agency. The new rehabilitation administration means not the one who was arrested, so here is the temporary release of the "save" of TLM towards the 260 million kuna Adriatic Bank in such a way that it was discounted by the Slovenian Impolu and that Slovenia's Impol actually took over both the halls and the weaving apartment in the factory, a factory that is otherwise worth everything together about 100 million euros. So the question arises, in which way and why did the write-off of the debt amounting to 190 million kuna occur, which is why the additional Adriatic Bank is damaged or brought to the brink of bankruptcy? And among other things, we can see that TLM's problems haven't been solved until today. In the Adriatic Bank, the rehabilitation administration also refers in a similar way as Mrs. Hrebac refers to the State Savings Agency. Namely, the director of the administration, Nancy Marin, comes to work only on Tuesdays and Wednesdays at 10 a.m. on Thursday mornings, returning to Zagreb to the official Passat because she allegedly works in Zagreb, so that Mrs. Vedrana Sarić, whose father-in-law was therefore the husband's father, would be the adviser to this administration who was arrested several days ago. Among other things, he allowed her husband, so the deputy director's husband to come into possession of the Adriatic Bank's property specifically the Baldekin Business in such a way that he got a discounted interest on the loan, came into possession of the property, then sold the property illegally, stopped paying the loan, and most interestingly, he took the deposit he made when he took the 50 thousand-euro loan. In this way, the bank was damaged for an additional million and a half kuna, i.e. for that amount, the Saric family gained profits. Given all these circumstances that further point out that Mrs. Hrebac is not an appropriate person to lead such an important state agency, I call on both Minister Marić, Vice-President Dalic, the Committee on Finance of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Darinko Kosor and Miomir Zuzula to take note of the work of the State Insurance Agency for Savings, and to take steps to re-name the Director Marija Hrebac or to dismiss the duties, given that I repeat the mandate to her even a full year ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24889	Mr. President, I'm not looking for an apartment, but I'm asking you when the vote is over to allow me to address five minutes from the pay phone when, because of the rejection of this proposal, the conclusion when it's all over so whoever wants to listen to me can.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24890	Dear President of the Parliament, I request a five-minute break on the same subject after my colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24891	Since Agent Sincic asked for a break, then what I was going to suggest is if there is no need to define a break so that you can approach it immediately. But since Agent Sincic asked for a break, I'm setting a 10-minute break. Excuse me, Representative Miro Bulj. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24892	Ten minutes on behalf of the MOST club about the thermal power plant on Peru. Peru thermal power plant, 10 minutes. MEETING IN 12.40 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24893	I ask the esteemed deputies to take their seats. Representative Bulj. The SDP representative club has asked for a break and will speak for them by representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24894	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I announced yesterday after the address of the government's representative and that in the event of our motion's rejection, we're going to ask for a recess, and I'm going to talk for less than five minutes, so I won't mind this jam, but I'd still rather not be disturbed. Thank you. A proposal from the SDP Representatives Club to encourage and encourage the Ministry of Administration as a competent authority to resolve in the metrics of the HoS Association of Volunteers from Varazdin after their request to be rejected in the statute to enable them to use the slogan "For Home Ready". And at this point, this second-degree administrative procedure lasts over a year. Perhaps the subject is complex and difficult, perhaps we should have given a second deadline, perhaps we should have said that instead of 30 days it would be 30 thousand days so the next 80 years are discussed as well as 70 years ago debated, but I believe that this is the first such case to be solved in the second degree after several rulings of the Constitutional and Criminal Court should be given the position that then any association, whether they are dissatisfied, can be reviewed in the administrative court. So, as far as the SDP's position on the case is concerned, he's publicly known. The administrative procedure also has its own judicial control, so if the Ministry wrongly resolves or solves as the party in the proceedings considers that it is not necessary to go to the Administrative Court. Therefore, our intensity was to encourage the ministry and thus the government to express their position, so if the appeal is refused, we will know what is the position of the government and the ministry at that time on the use of the slogan "For Home Ready" in the statute, and if they accept the appeal, we will also know what the position is. So we're asking the Ministry and the Government to show their attitude. If they are not sure about this position, based on this provision of mutual cooperation, let them consult with the State's Attorney's Office, for example. let the state's attorney and minister come out for a press release and a common general position after the consultation. Here's what we would consider justified if it came to this point, but avoiding giving this answer actually only further encourages what we all like to say divisions in society. We would like to know what the Government's position on the application of the Law on Associations specifically on the application of the slogan "For Home Ready" in the Statute of the Association, since this is the first time that this ministry has resolved in the second degree on the basis of the appeal since in January 2016, a state administration office refused to enter the register of associations, an association because of this slogan, that I do not enter into the metrics here we just want to get an accurate and clear position in the legal administrative procedure of the Resorship Ministry and, indirectly, from the Government to eat this in Croatia legally in their opinion or not. With this request, we did not want to suggest to the ministry how to resolve the appeal, it has been for 14 months, a reasonable deadline has expired, and discussions continue. By refusing and voting against our proposal for a conclusion in my opinion, the ruling majority clubs, I did not follow, have all voted against the conclusion, but it seems to me that most clubs, in fact, have audibled the government from showing its position at this point in time. And this is a clear political message and we will understand this political message, take care of it during any debate on the subject, and we regret that the ruling majority of what the government is, which the Ministry has no position on whether or not it should, in the statutes and seals of the associations in the future, be this sign. All calls for this to be resolved before fall on the fact that the first judicial rulings came in 2016 and that the first complaint came to the ministry in 2016. Here, so much for me in this case. Of course, the debate will continue outside the Assembly Hall and I think that the representatives and neither we at the club wanted to suggest to the Ministry how to resolve the appeal whether to accept it or reject it, just the brothers to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24895	Thank you. The HDZ advocates' club also called for a break. Representative Branko Bacic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24896	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club therefore supported the proposal from the competent parliamentary body, which rejected in the Assembly the proposal for a conclusion delivered by the SDP club. I would just tell my colleague Bauku that by that conclusion and if the Parliament had adopted it would not have been adopted, that conclusion would not have meant encouraging as counterpart Bauk said neither to encourage nor to encourage but to be in charge of the Ministry of Administration. So it's not a recommendation or encouragement or encouragement, it's a warrant from another state body, in this case from the Ministry of Administration to speed up the procedure and bring the procedure and resolve the appeal filed by the Association of Defense. We did not accept this because it is the opposite of Article 4. The constitution of divisions, the division of authorities in the Republic of Croatia, on the one hand, is contrary to the Law on administrative procedure and the Law on the System of State Administration. Namely, no one else in the administrative, individual administrative procedure, not even the Government can do to its ministry what the Croatian Parliament was to adopt on your proposal today, even so the Government cannot order the Minister to do so but the only party in the process that can ask for a certain action to be accelerated in a single administrative procedure. So that was the basis why we did not support such a conclusion at the HDZ club because we assessed that it would be a violation of the Constitution on independence of state authority and in Croatia where the Croatian Parliament would impose on a single body in the ministry to solve or speed up a single administrative procedure anyway. But what's second and what my colleague Bauk was saying, you're in a position to attach yourself to the Constitutional Court and to the case-law of the Constitutional Court so far. I think we have already, not once, but on several occasions and on our Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system have referred to the Constitutional Court's decision. And I'm gonna do what we said and then I'm gonna do it again. So that the Constitutional Court had never shown itself yet about the character and unconstitutional greeting "for home prepared", this was never shown by the Constitutional Court but by the Constitutional Court, which is that on the basis of the decision, or the resolution of the infringement courts, in two cases, one for the settlement of certain units in Slun when the NDH and Ante Pavelic were exalted, according to the resolution of the criminal court, found that the infringement court had the right when he estimated that such emphasis on the constitutional greetings, the expansion of Ante Pavelic and that regime in contrast to the Constitution, and then the Constitutional Court rejected the request for the assessment of the constitutionality of such a solution of the criminal court. And second time, the Constitutional Court did so in the event of a cry at Maksimir Stadium and player Jo Simunic. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has defined that there is no regulation in the Republic of Croatia which would find such a greeting "for a home ready" unconstitutional. That's for sure. And that's why I'm going to continue, you asked what the government's position is and what HDZ's position is. We have already shown ourselves on several occasions and in order to get rid of the dubiosis and division in Croatian society, not only of this sign but also of other signs of totalitarian regimes, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has appointed the Commission to deal with the past where it would then be obvious and pass the regulation, a universal regulation in Croatia that would then clearly determine how both state bodies and citizens of the Republic have behave when it comes to all symbols, all of the totalitarian systems, and thus this greeting "for home ready". So that's one other part apart from our vote today. For this reason, we have not voted against the conclusion of the SDP club today, but rather what such a vote today would have made by the Croatian Parliament in the HDZ Club, a constitutional conclusion which would have roughly violated the government's trode and would have been a interference in the authority of other bodies and, above all, a single administrative procedure between the Ministry and the Association of Defences. Therefore, the HDZ Club did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24897	Thank you. The live wall advocates club also called for a break. In their name will speak MP Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24898	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. I must say at first that the Living Wall is not for division, we are for sovereignty policy and unification policy to confront the past on scientific basis. The establishment of a commission to face the past has recently been announced, a direct cause of marching around Zagreb. I must say, we give too much energy in the face of the past. But let me, let me, let me hope that this commission will finally solve the problem, that it will define standards, scientific standards so that we always know at any moment whether a greeting or a symbol of a conviction, or not for a conviction, or when it's not for a conviction, when it's for a conviction. In particular, this greeting is "for a home ready". Of course he's connected to NDH. However, we must also know that the members of the HOS that are being spoken of have fought for this country. Therefore, I call upon the entire Parliament and that committee that will already sit in it, let's now define what is wrong, let's bring a national consensus, unite on this issue, and then all of us stick to it now and forever. That whenever something happens at a game or on a monument that we know immediately what and how and how to end it in day two, and not that every time every week, months are the main topics and it's always starting to exhaust us and that's the main theme. Please, let's bring that standard over. Here's the opposite of the Commission to face the past, I must also warn this Parliament, although I haven't seen that spoken of at all since I've been here on board, not in public, nor in the assembly of several processes, here from my field of energy and automation, who followed my debate on the Air Law, I have stated that in Germany 2030. It's already been voted. Most likely Norway, and if I am not mistaken for Denmark, which I have already stated by 2025, the Netherlands pardon that it will ban the sale of internal combustion engines. Is this House aware of what such processes bring for this society in just 10, 15 years? Here we go. The journals I follow predict that children born today, for example, my son will never have to take a driver’s license. Why? 'Cause by then, in about 15 years, it won't be necessary anymore. I point my colleague to the process and I'll end up very clearly. [[Adversity President: Representative Sincic I would like to ask you to talk about why you requested a break.]] It won't be necessary to take the driver's license because everything will be automated. Third, the magazine also predicts that 40%, i.e. That's what the expert group did, the labor force in Canada will be lost in the next 10 years due to automation. 40% Canadian labour force I'm done. [[/Intruder President: Representative Sincic I would like to ask you to finish. You requested a break with a precisely defined theme.]] So, uh... In Finland, it is called the Committee on the Future of Parliament, which provides for these processes and does documentation and strategy for the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am announcing from this place the establishment, i.e. the launch of an initiative for the launch of the Future Facing Committee. More about it at the conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24899	The club of HNS representatives has requested a break. In their name will be spoken by MP Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24900	Thank you, Mr. President. First, let's clarify the relations between the executive and the legislative authorities and what Parliament can or cannot do at all. The parliament, of course, makes laws and asks the government to enforce those laws. So he can ask the government to do it. But also in Article 127. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament say: "The Council, apart from the reports and data referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, may also ask the Government to carry out certain actions that are within its jurisdiction." Therefore, since it is in the power of the Government or one of its ministries, but all ministries are Government and all the ministries are doing is what the Government is doing. It's not just the Prime Minister, it's everything that makes the government. And Parliament has the right to ask the government here in this case to solve one question which, of course, is not the same as all the other questions. And de facto the fact that we are discussing this and that this is not the result of what is one of the x topics, but is the result of what is a symptom of the situation in the Croatian public space, i.e. an increasingly frequent attempt to rehabilitate symbols or ideologies related to fascism, Nazism and derivated Quislin regimes and ideologies from World War II. That's the problem. And individual greetings or symbols of course existed before these regimes, but they are their own, for example, a cowardly cross which is also a Sanskrit tradition but with their use by these regimes have become defiled and symbolise the support or sympathy or rehabilitation of such regimes. And here I have to agree with my colleague Bačić that I think it's actually very unusual that the Parliament has to push to solve this problem. It would be logical for the Parliament not to say a single word, but for the government to solve this problem because of its position, because of respect for the Republic of Croatia's constitution, which says that the Republic of Croatia is based on anti-fascist tradition, so all that is contrary to rehabilitating the symbols of the fascist, Nazi or similar Quislin regimes of World War II. So you wouldn't even think that the government would want to possibly stall this decision by flirting with these regimes. But then why don't you bring here a very clear word in a very specific case. And there's no commission and no truth committee that's gonna help people. If we now had fascist demonstrations at Jelačić Square would that, if it had responded, would it have asked the commission to ambush instead of looking at what it says in the Constitution, and it is quite clear our answer. And I don't see how, it's not a question of left, right or middle orientation, it's a question of my deepest conviction. I would never offend you by thinking that you would support such a thing at all, so it's a question of the civilization level of our society. We can terribly disagree on tax policy, about a hundred different things, economic policy, education of various things we can disagree on, but we cannot disagree on this. This is a very clear situation, so what the SDP club was saying was that they were just looking for to solve the problem. As far as the HNS Club is concerned, it's not about us. [[Intruder Petrov: Time, thank you.]] No matter how these problems are solved. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24901	Representative Pusic, thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24902	I'm finishing up here, so it's clear that a Quislin fascist greeting is not in use.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24903	Thank you. I'd like to ask you to use the estimated duration of time. Representative Bunjac, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24904	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 238(1) has been broken. The Rules of Procedure, in fact, just before you interrupted Mr. Sincic's speech several times that he wasn't following the subject, and now we've heard about the sister-in-law and the Sanskrit, I don't know what that has to do with the Justice Department. This is about whether or not the Department of Administration brought something in within the deadline. And now we've been listening to a lecture I don't know about what it's called, the history of totalitarian regime symbols. Well, that was also a deviation from the subject, and if we're talking about the Ministry of Administration, then everyone should talk, and not that one representative is rudely interrupted three times, and the other one can talk as much as he wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24905	Comrade Bunjac, since you asked for it then you should hear the explanation. The next time you personally go out to talk, don't call for an explanation of the context of the topic because that's what you're calling for. I have given the opportunity to explain the context of everything and to speak in the spirit of that topic. And Mr. Sincic emphasized even that he would not talk about the subject but about something he thinks is more important. The MOST advocates' club also called for a break and MP Miro Bulj will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24906	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let the people see what the opposition was up to for four years as the young left, now dealing with one seal of the Croatian Defence Forces. Of course, we all condemn all totalitarian regimes and Nazi and fascist and Mrs Pusic forgot to mention the communist regimes because they caused numerous victims and certainly that these topics are opening up pain with our citizens. So he would have turned to one very important subject that I was talking about a month ago. The address of the Prime Minister came to this day to over ten thousand letters from Croatian citizens from the Cetin region entitled "Stop Construction of TE Peruč and Ecocid over Cetin". Our young physicist and returner in Croatia Mislav Cvitkovic from the Ruđera Bošković Institute showed clear arguments and numbers that TE Peruca will lead to an ecocid and also rob Croatian citizens through huge marketing applications as it listens to wind power plants done in Zoran Milanović's term and that it will go into private hands to be what is most important, and this is the strategic point of Croatia's great water resources and potentials that the Cetina River uses with water of 500 thousand people, and in the season of summer and over a million people. A study of environmental impact, the same company was doing, and it was doing the same project, which is a clear conflict of interest to you. The project's owners called for the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, and Ruđer Boskovic has denied it four times, which means pure manipulation. Such power plants across Western Europe have been closing, over 30 of them in the last two years. Why would they open up with us? And now some experts are coming out saying that the power plant is going to cool off without the water heating up. Take a look at the case similar to that in Lečevica, we have experts who have been reputed, and who suddenly the debris becomes unforgivable, or they will say so. The so-called "Mrs. So-called" Experts can deny a third grade child of primary school because we know and I personally know much less than these experts, but I learned this that the basic feature of the breach is lewdness and that heat, energy cannot disappear. Finally, we have 12,000 people who signed a petition, 10.5 online, and a thousand and a half Croats on paper. We have at least one lie about the project and at least two conflicts of interest, we have scientists who have clearly shown how dangerous the project is, we have the interests of heavy billions of euros who want to take our future, our Cetina and Jadro and perhaps leave all of Dalmatia without water and this strategic national resource, drinking water, want to pollute us, of course with the help of foreign investors. We're wondering how long it's gonna go? If Peru fell under Serb Mladic, would we need to defend it from ourselves again? The message of Sinjan and Ceting and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, gentlemen, to endanger the river Cetina will not.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u24907	That's what we do today's work. We will continue the session on Wednesday, March 15, at 9.30 p.m. with the point of the draft law on insurance of labour claims, P.Z.E. Number 99. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 13.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33094	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, one correction. Our colleague, Saucha, is not sanctioned for anything, he's not determined by that we can't say that he's sanctioned, it wouldn't be correct. We're going to our agenda as we predicted. The first item is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Alignment and Determination of Compensation, First Reading, P.Z. No 101 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Business System. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Sanja Misevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33095	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable MPs and MPs. The intensities of the amendment of this law shall be to speed up the extradition procedures or to transfer in this previous procedure the right of ownership to the beneficiary of the exemption. This institute is very important given that this way we will speed up investment and all, given the fact that the extradition procedures are too long under the current law. And it is also extremely important because in this case, the beneficiaries of the expropriation will be able to apply significantly before they can apply to competitions for EU funds. So what the law aims to achieve is to implement a prior proof insurance procedure in which the procedure in which a conflicting debate will establish the value of the property by a permanent court expert, i.e. the assessor, in such a way that the applicants of the expropriation will already, before the authorisation procedure is initiated, propose three authorised judicial assessors or witches, the public legal body that runs the procedure will, in that case, forward that request to the owner and leave him with a very short period of time to indicate whether he accepts such a proposed expert or he will propose his three. Once, in this way, a fast-tracking process determines the real market value of real estate, the owner of the property will be able to enter his property rights in the land books and continue with his investments. And if the owner of the property is not satisfied with this determined value of the property, it will be possible to continue in the court proceedings to establish the real value but, therefore, at this stage of the procedure, the beneficiary of the expropriation will become the full owner of the property in which he will continue to invest. The second intervention in the law concerns the extension of the government's decision to determine the interest of the Republic of Croatia, which currently meant that the decision was worth 2 years of amendments and additions to the current law as proposed should be worth 4 years. Basically these are the most important interventions that are done in the law and some other petty nomotechnics have but I believe they're not worth it now. So it's not very important that we elaborate on them now. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33096	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the first one will speak for the Honorable Representative Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33097	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the granting and fixing of a fee in the first reading. It is a legal proposal which is obviously the result of an assessment of the practice so far and the implementation of the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation, which is a studio on the force 3 years ago in June 2014. In view of the fact that some of the provisions came into force and later on, on 1 January 2016. Obviously, this law has not been implemented for long, but the promoter, the Government of the Republic of Croatia estimates that there are certain problems in practice which lead the applicant to propose these amendments. We believe that the reasons for saying this immediately are justified for changing the law and that some of the most important changes that are proposed are going in the right direction. The debate on this law will show how much quality we can make this law even better in the first and second readings. So what's this about? It is crucial that the intention and purpose of this law was both in the adoption and in the current changes to regulate the law by being in a function of speeding up the investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia as the main driver of growth and development of the Croatian economy and creating assumptions for increasing investment in the economy and improving the conditions for managing goods of interest for the Republic of Croatia. In the course of short application of the law, practice has shown that the extradition procedures continue to take too long. And this is actually a key sentence based on which the legislator proposes certain changes. The complexity of the procedure that conditions its inappropriate duration prevents investors from implementing projects in particular to exercise their right to incentives, support and prevents credit responsibilities and the use of EU funds. It is crucial for this law and it is therefore an expropriation that a certain legal or natural person should be deprived of property and that a fair market fee should always be paid to seek that balance between public and private interest. And every legal proposal actually always concentrates on just that, finding the right balance. The infringement procedures, as the applicant has said, take too long, especially because of the complexity of the property security process as one of the conditions for submission of the extradition proposal. The complexity of the extradition procedure that conditions its inappropriate duration prevents investors from exercising their right to incentives, support and, of course, applying to EU funds. What is proposed by this law that we consider particularly good solutions? First and most important, this is to simplify the property value assurance process in such a way that the current mandatory oral debate is replaced by the obligation of the beneficiaries of the exemption, that already in the application for the security of the value of the property, three judicial experts or three judicial assessors on which the previous owner must be manifested within the specified deadline, agree with the names offered or propose three experts or assessors themselves. All of this is predicted within a very short time. Therefore, the Ministry or other competent authority will, without delay and no later than 8 days from the date of receipt of an orderly proposal to provide evidence of the state and value of the property, invite the owner of the real estate to agree within 8 days with one of the proposed appraisals. Therefore, the deadline is very short in which the owner of the property must be manifested or must propose himself three appraisals of the relevant profession in view of the characteristics of the property. If the owner of the real estate or owner is not chosen within that time limit by any proposed appraiser or does not propose an appraiser himself, he will be deemed to agree to provide evidence of the state and value of the property to any of the proposed appraisers. We would like to point out here in particular that it is in this particular procedure that it may be crucial, therefore, that the possibility not only for the user to propose a real estate appraisal but also for the legal or physical person whose property will be subject to the authority. We here believe it to be a good solution and to find the best judge or court expert to assess that property. The public legal authority which conducts an irregular procedure shall, without delay, be entrusted with one of the proposed experts or assessors, and at the same time determine the time of performance of the eyewitnesses. Here the law states without delay, you have more provisions where it is said. The deadline is not explicitly foreseen here, but it is believed that the public-law body must do so as soon as possible. The form of compensation provided for shall be aligned with the most representative form of compensation, therefore for the former owner, which is the cash compensation, and the fee in the form of the replacement land shall be determined as an exception. The period of validity of the Government's decision establishing the interest of the Republic of Croatia from two to four years shall be extended. In this way, the need to redefine the interest of the Republic of Croatia for a concrete investment is eliminated, thus removing administrative barriers to the realisation of investments of public interest. Furthermore, we consider it important to determine that the value assessment report should not be more than two years old. In this way, it is ensured that the value of the property in question is to the greatest extent in accordance with its market value at the time of the decision on the exemption. Furthermore, it is also extremely important to introduce a new Institute of Interim Authorisation which, provided that the fee has been established by the assessment of the value of the beneficiary of the expropriation, acquires the right of ownership of the property for which the transfer proposal has been submitted. By introducing that institute of a temporary decision on the expropriation of the previous owner, he will be entitled to continue the procedure to determine, determine the market fee and if he does not consider that he has received an appropriate market fee for his real estate. On the one hand, this institute is intended to enable investors to acquire property ownership after payment of a fee at the level of a certain finding on the state and value of the property, while at the same time allowing previous owners and real estate owners to obtain compensation. This should, in fact, be the balance between public and private interest, for which every law governing the authority must strive. The temporary solution allows the previous owner to receive a cash compensation in the real market value of that property and, if it is not satisfied with that fee, it is allowed to continue the procedure in which the compensation will be determined in the follow-up procedure. We consider these proposed legal solutions good. We believe that the legislator defined them precisely by considering and having problems implementing the current legal solutions. Through the debate, we believe that we may be able to come up with perhaps even better solutions in some provisions. In any case, the practice so far imposes certain amendments to the law and we hope that we will come up with the best solutions in this first and second legal reading. The MOST of Independent Lists supports the adoption of the law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33098	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, the next one will speak for the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33099	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the State Secretary at the Department of Justice. I will, on behalf of the SDSS Club, say our view of this issue of expropriation, so expropriation is one very serious legal instrument because it affects the fundamental rights called the right of ownership. So, you're extorting the state by intervening with your private property coercion. And that is why we need to discuss this well-qualityly and see all aspects of such a concern in private property. I absolutely agree as a citizen that something should have changed in this system of exorcism. The other day I was in the municipality at a meeting where we were talking about how to solve a situation where you needed to create a road that would have a significant tourist character and of twenty owners of small owners all agreed on it except one who said no, I will not sell it and ask for the price it requires. He bought it for x kuna, now he's selling it at a 10-fold or a significantly higher price. Thus, it may be just one example of why this needs to be changed, so to prevent some sort of interference or to prevent evil intentions. For example, we are doing this program of resuscitation of the power grid and now HEP with the best will to resuscitate a certain route towards people who are returnees who have no electricity, one owner that the Croat says I do not allow the pillar to be placed here because the power needs to be crossed to the owner of the Serb returnees. So these are some of the life things that motivated us to have some kind of positive relationship with these changes. Of course there's a broader interest, one global thing called investment. It is likely to increase the flow of investments, of course it is linked to European funds, etc., etc. In his argument, the Proposer cited several strong arguments that should be taken into account in this institution of expropriation, henceforth, the procedures of the old law since 2014 have been long-term by assessment and have been quite complicated. And then the promoter said that this proposal seeks to stick to the basic principle of postulates that the achievement of public interest must be done in a way that ensures the protection of property rights as one of the fundamental human rights. And it is then concluded that we believe that the proposed legislative solution is concrete by introducing a temporary solution to the expropriation institute, which is precisely the principle of proportionality as one of the fundamental principles in the case of conflicting interests. The previous owner will receive some money, and the investor will be able to enter the investment. And that's what is said in principle, but when you get into practice, then we see that there may be some additional questions right here. Here he is, I have some impression if I have correctly understood these legal changes to the initiative is on the investor. So it is primarily given to investors in relation to ownership as a fundamental right because it is enough for the investor to have its own elaborate, it is sufficient for the investor to make a request to the competent ministry or to any body in that ministry that we have not yet defined which body, to respond to the value and quality of the land through which his investment wants to go and move into the process, the Ministry responds to that request, gives the names of some of its authorised witches who will assess the value of that property, the time limit is left, the owner is called to say within eight days whether he accepts those names or will give some other. If it is not made clear that it has accepted those names on the assessment, they assess the value of that property, there is a particular debate between investors, future beneficiaries of the expropriation and owners, it is concluded that the formal conditions on the foreign investor are met and that the first phase of the procedure ends in a way that a decision on the expropriation is made and an order is given to register the investor as the owner of that property. And in phase two, a warrant is given to let him into possession. And then the user or owner is referred to the administrative dispute if he is not satisfied with the compensation of his property. Therefore, the investor may already enter into the first ace, and the owner is left with one process to dispute with the investor or the state whether the price is correctly established. Now, if we're going to go with the fact and logic that we need to speed up the extradition procedure to prefer some investment, and I think it's a good way to go, then we need to be aware that this way we're deep into private property in limiting private ownership and that we prefer private investment in relation to private property. And that's why I'd be here, without doubting the good intentions of the promoters, I think here is very interesting if you go into the details and I've tried to present it to myself through practice to make it work and it's a very good model proposed, but I'd still be asking four principle questions here now and I'd ask you an answer if I can, so we have complete information about it and we can support this solution. The first thing is it is said that in the whole process an active legitimate ministry and a competent body. That competent body and the competent body, I'd like to know which one is the competent body? Whether it is a competent body at the level of the ministry or it is the competent authority will get the authority at the level of the county because this competent authority will be filled with a mass of data, it will have to have a lot of such disputes to lead, the debate to lead, will have to have information on the quality of property that will be subject to the exemption, so the subject of investment they will have to have a review of their experts, they will have to have this whole process of matching the interest between investors and private ownership to lead, so I am interested in what is the competent authority. A good definition is a principle definition, a competent ministry or a competent authority. I am interested in what it is, whether it will be a permanent competent body, whether it will be professionals, as the work of the competent authority is envisaged because it is first-degree, it is the first-degree body in the administrative procedure. We'll see about that later. So it's by the logic of things the body that makes the solution, it's the first-degree body in the administrative procedure that affects, which enters into private property. Another thing I'd like to get a little bit clearer is the fact, the fact of the complaint. So we here also say in Article 36, items that the entry of the right of ownership in favour of the beneficiary of the exemption, etc., we have the right to register in favour of the beneficiary of the exemption and the owner has no right to complain. There is no right to appeal to this entry where it is delegated from its real estate and referred to the administrative procedure. Also in Article 41 where an investor is introduced to visit a property owner and the property does not have the right to complain. So as a legalist, I'm asking if it's a good question that we've absolutely made an appeal as a fundamental procedural legal instrument for the protection of property, for the protection of private property, we've thrown out of this process, we've limited the action of the appeal, so we've taken away some kind of suspensive action, which is rightly quite a disputable thing. I think you should think about it all because the dissatisfied party has no right, if there is no right to appeal, then the basic instrument of protection is being questioned. It will go into administrative proceedings that can take and last and the question is what is the result of this administrative procedure. The third thing is just the fact that we let the investor know that before the solution finally became possible, before the dispute ended for him to enter into someone else's property, it was for me as a lawyer quite a disputable thing. It is said this way, he will get the right if he submits an elaborate and these three witches give his assessment of the value of the property, he will make that payment no matter what the amount is to be paid to the owner of the property or to be paid to an account, a special account that a body in the ministry will open and that gives him the legitimacy to register as owner of that property and behind that we have a complaint as an instrument that can no longer suspend this abolition of the right. So that puts me in such a doubt in the mind of whether or not we hurried with the transfer of that property. Entering the property is something else, you can allow the investor to go into some kind of initial work. But we here in Article 36 clearly gave him the authority that after the first elaborate he could be entered as the owner of the property. And that's something that leads us to suspect that it's going to be a possible polygon of some future manipulation. And the last thing I would point out, so the deadlines I was talking about, the deadlines and the estimates that are very important because the assessment of the value of the property by one, two, three witches is the essential thing of this dispute, it's the shadow of the agreement. Either we accept the price offered by the experts or we won't accept as owners. And then here it is said, the investor, or the body responsible for the ministry within 8 days, calls on the owner to make a statement about the proposal of the experts to assess his real estate if he is not shown within 8 days, is believed to have accepted this composition of the art. I'm asking, what are we going to do in Ravni Kotari where people haven't come back and the road goes where the real estate owners aren't here. As we will then deal with their real estate, the road should pass, where the owners are absent, have not yet returned because we have not created for them as a society assumptions of return, we will simply come into possession by applying this provision, in the possession of their plots, in a way that we will advertise on the ministry's advertising board a call for within 8 days to show about the composition of the witches who will assess that property. Of course, these poor people don't get communication for 8 days and not to be able to respond to that composition, and the investor, in the way he proposes to assess the real estate, the value of this property, and very, very much, I would say the circumstances that we don't like, do not provide any guarantee of security, come into possession and own these properties. So I'd like to express those four things as some sort of discussion space. With what I'm saying again, we think you've entered this procedure on a good path, the model needs to be well discussed because it's a basic matter, it's a private property commitment. Even the European Commission has warned that this perception must be such that it must create a certain balance between public interests for which we are all and private property, which is defined by the Constitution itself and of course by the basic principles of the European Union. Let's try to discuss these four points and we'll support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33100	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first to represent Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33101	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Horvat, therefore you pointed out in your discussion a number of problems that may arise in practice. That's for sure, those problems have come up, and they'll come up. What I would like to emphasise when we talk about the area of Slavonia and Baranja and in the Constitution is defined as well as in the law to determine the market fee. There is now a question in many parts of Slavonia which is actually a market fee and how it is possible to determine it without it being fair. I think we'd better keep standing if it was some kind of fair fee here especially because we know that many people are tied to their real estate. They didn't buy it. They often worked alone and it lasted for years. Unfortunately, some have not yet ended up just like this on that side, looking at the problem. But I had another problem. The state when it comes to the interest of the Republic of Croatia, then the state must and can act in this case, and especially on the problems that you said when it really comes to the general interest. It was some kind of road or some other infrastructure project. However, what concerns me is why the state does not behave in the interests of its ownership. We are also here when he was a representative of the finance minister and asked what was going on with concessions that were not paid. The state gave up its property in favour of business entities that then failed to comply with their obligations and it lasted for years and no one is doing anything. And who, in the end, will guarantee, and if and in this case, the expropriation of private persons in favour of some other business entities if they do not carry out their obligations further, do not actually carry out what they are, which is why the empowerment is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33102	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33103	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. You've suggested one very interesting thing here, so we have a fair price and a market price. The fair price for me to see things and for old theories was a matter of mutual agreement between interested parties. And when they're agreed, then there's a category of fair compensation, and the market category is exactly what's being implemented by this law here right now. That's the category, that's the price one, two or three witches will determine that it's a market category which doesn't necessarily mean that it's a fair category, a fair fee. I would prefer that the basis of this compensation in the case of extradition would be a fair fee, because then it points to the logic of your concept, so the conduct of the debate before the competent authorities, the discussion of all elements and the quality of that property. If we leave it to the witches, then he can say listen to today's real estate market such that the price is what it is, which doesn't mean that in six months they won't say that the real estate market has profluctuated and that it has a higher price, and man has got an amount that is significantly smaller. About these concessions. If the State pays private investors a market fee as it charged itself the value of the concession for hunting grounds for the country, then it will not be a fair fee not to enter now into the theory of preferential concessions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33104	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Horvat you have listed a topic that is likely to be and is always the biggest dispute between the one who eventually does not want to sell his property and the one who wants to buy this property. And we often come to situations where the price is being discussed and some people don't want to sell real estate because they want the higher the price, the higher the price. And you mentioned what if a man is not present and offers are offered by court experts who won't answer him, there's no commission here, there's an assessment of a court expert. And it's probably your concern that a court expert can be biased. For example, we have seen in recent years how a court expert can assess the building here in the Mountain Street in Zagreb, which was bought by the Ministry of Regional Development, which is worth 39 million kuna. He estimates 79 million kunas. And I'm asking you here's what I'm interested in, how are we gonna avoid saying that the ministry here let's take hypothetically then regional development wants to buy one building. The one who wants to sell it, but it's actually going to be like an outcast, he's opposed to it. A court expert such as the one who has twice the price reached and then, after a certain time, it is found that the price is much higher, much higher than the real market, i.e. that something below the table was played there. Then will the only fair solution after that be to peel off four and a half tons of potatoes in prison for 40 million kunas and eat the donkey wolf. So I'm even interested in this situation where I want to have someone who can verify who's chosen by the one who wants to buy, and the state is the one who owns it. And here we have seen in the past many examples of corruption and that the state paid too much of what was worth in the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33106	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33107	Comrade Maras, I will only answer you to this first part of your replica. I don't have time for this. So, I have not expressed my suspicion that the witches would unrealize. I just said that the principle that eight days plus eight days is not good for a specific category of people who are in the return phase, so for returnees who have their property is interesting for a particular infrastructure, infrastructure projects for a simple reason, so they are not present. First, they cannot consume their right to have a proposal for new witches within 8 days. Since the appeal does not delay the entry of ownership, the owner will not be delayed, or the investor will be registered to a poor person in Islam to a plot on the basis of the elaborate and very short term. Until this man finds out he no longer owns it, until he enters the administrative dispute there will be a year. Until then, the investment is over and his entire objection makes no sense anymore. So, I'm saying that this is how the agreed deadlines of eight plus eight and the way the complaint does not execute, does not delay the execution of the property registration in favour of the investor, i.e. the beneficiary of the expropriation will lead to the elements of the usurpation of private ownership.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33108	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I must say that it is my special pleasure to have my debate right after my distinguished colleague Horvat's debate because he pointed to a series of problems stemming from this law, I will continue here. At first I will say that the Club of Representatives of the SDP cannot support this bill of objections and the reasons that we are about to present. As far as the vote itself is concerned, as it is the first reading, we will be abstentioned, but if the bill is like this and in the second reading we will have to strongly oppose it and continue the procedure related to this law and to the Constitutional Court for reasons which I will now explain. In view of the fact that it is a proposal for an exemption law, it is therefore a constitutional category that enters what is regulated in Article 50. The Republic of Croatia Constitution, I must make two formal remarks immediately. First, he had to sit here and explain these suggestions. So we're talking about the possibility of taking away property without the right to appeal for such a solution. Disposal of ownership immediately of the administrative dispute, the minister will not speak of it. And secondly, this is a specific law which, because of its nature, falls within the jurisdiction of two parliamentary committees and, of course, the Legislative Committee that discusses everyone. The Committee on the Constitution held a debate this week, the Justice Committee was called on Tuesday with this item on the agenda, but we hurried with a debate on a law that took away the right of ownership without having discussed it on the home working body. Well, let's get it straight. Article 2 of the Law amends Article 11 in a way that reads as follows: ‘for an expropriated property, the owner shall have a cash compensation at the level of the market value of the real estate and, in particular, other relevant real estate’, this is also the first problem of the law in question because there is one regulation called the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which explicitly says ‘It is possible, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, to restrict or withdraw the right of ownership under market value compensation’. The Constitution does not say, and exceptionally with the provision of other relevant properties, the Constitution says with a market value compensation. Therefore, such a proposed provision of Article 11 of the existing Law on the Authorisation or Article 2 of the Law which is before us is contrary to the Constitution. Replacement is possible. When? Only when there is an agreement between parties where the parties agree on the fact that the current owner of the property will accept another property in exchange for the expropriation or the expropriation of the property. Therefore, if we want this law to comply with the Constitution, Article 2 should be deleted. Let's move on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. ‘In Article 17(1), the words on the proposal for extradition shall be deleted’. What does that mean? This means that the existing Article 17 of this intervention, in its paragraph 1, will read against the first-degree solution of the competent authority, the words on the extradition proposal may be deleted. So what are we gonna have in law? That any solution adopted by a first-degree body in that law may be declared by an appeal other than one solution. And do you know what kind of solution that is? A temporary exemption decision in which case the owner shall be deprived of ownership of the property before it is finally determined to be the amount of compensation to be paid to him. We have already said Article 11 is changed in a way that is contrary to Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and we come to a serious problem. You're taking away some property, you're not agreeing to what the severance fee belongs to him, no procedure has been conducted that will be followed up later because this is a temporary solution, and he cannot complain about that solution. So no real estate, no market value compensation. In my opinion, it's not good. Furthermore, we listened to on the Committee of Certain Amendments concerning the procedure and the way in which the proof of the state and value of the property will be provided. These changes at first sight are small in relation to the existing state, but that's not so. Why? How'd it go so far? You have addressed yourself as a user of expropriation, for example Croatian highways that want to build a highway, you have addressed the competent body, you have proposed to conduct the procedure and we are going after that to agree on who to choose as a witch. If there was no agreement between the owner of the property on the one hand and the beneficiary of the authority of the State Administration which conducts the procedure pursuant to Article 27(2), it was free to determine the experts or assessor to carry out the procedure. We are now changing and saying that if the owner of the property disagrees with one of the three proposed experts or assessors, the competent authority that conducts the procedure will only determine who will be entrusted with the procedure, but no longer with someone he considers appropriate or professional, but one of these three proposed by the user of the empowerment. What does that mean? This means that we can move exclusively in those gauges that were originally placed by the beneficiary of the expropriation. Why is that particularly problematic? Not because when this finding is made, I will not have the right to object, I have it, and then the body of the state administration that conducts the procedure will be completely free in determining the experts or the assessor who will continue to continue the proceedings but is particularly problematic because at that moment, when I have been working on this elaborate, which I did not have any influence on as a party, which the body of the state administration did not have any influence on may be subject to a temporary decision on the exemption to which we said we do not have the right to appeal. So the problem arises that the whole process is so delayed and goes to the expense of the property owner that he really comes into the situation described by his colleague Horvat a few minutes ago. And all these changes are completely unnecessary. Why? Because there is an article in the current law that regulates exactly this situation when we are doing serious infrastructure projects. And when it can't be because the owner in any way doesn't want to agree to the proposals. It means when we can't expect that the extradition procedure will finally be completed within some reasonable time frame. So we have an article 41 that talks about... Prior to the power of the decision to grant, note bene, this article in the proposed law is completely amended and moved and we are going to this temporary extradition procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what kind of procedure are we supposed to do now? We're starting as a user of expropriation in the process, there's a way I'm describing it right now if it's infrastructure building, but just watch out for infrastructure building, not other types of expropriation. And it's very clear what, about public roads, about rail infrastructure, water economic infrastructure and the like, can be made temporarily, or a solution can be made to enter into the property of an authorised property before the power of authority. Therefore, the user of the exemption may start to perform the works, however, the owner of the property remains the previous owner. Until when? Until the moment that the rightful determination of the amount of compensation is determined and the compensation must be paid to him. In that respect, of course, since the owner is, however, limited in the exercise of his right of ownership, it is provided that the beneficiary of the exemption must pay the undeniable part of the market value compensation as set out in Article 11 so far. The Act of Exclusion and as prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So, the owner is protected, allowing the user to expropriate the building, what? Only infrastructure. And we don't have, all this stuff that you're putting into the law, you're making it more complicated, and you're essentially questioning what my colleague Horvat was talking about, and that's a very difficult situation, what if such an exorcism solution falls into administrative proceedings? Because when we listened to an argument on the Committee on the Constitution on why it was going on prematurely, and this is early seizure of ownership, the reason was that those with property ownership have the advantage of obtaining funds from EU funds. Gentlemen, dear, that's not true. The advantage of obtaining funds from EU funds is those that have real legal relations. And really legal relations don't have to be property because otherwise no sewer can be passed because you, and there's a lot of you coming from local self-government units. We had several very high-quality discussions on the subject of how many sewerage pipes are indeed located on properties owned by a utility company. Almost none. As a rule, they're where? On real estates that are public roads because we try to place them in a hull of roads, in a foothill or something. And sometimes, for very objective reasons, they are based, on the right of service, not on the right of ownership but on the right of service, which is one of the ways of regulating a real legal relationship over private-owned properties. However, we in law and have an institution of incomplete expropriation precisely in order not to have to buy out the entire property every time, so that not every time, the user of the expropriation becomes the owner of the property. Therefore, access to EU funds is not about ownership but about the fact that real legal relations are regulated under any of the laws of the regulated and defined forms of real rights that exist in the Croatian legal order. So, briefly and clearly, this law is completely unnecessary and in this form and anti-constitutional. Since it is a first reading, given that certain things are possible to be improved in order for this procedure to move faster, in order to bring the extradition process in line. We don't mind preparing a new bill for another reading. But if he is proposed in this form, then we will be against him, and if he is adopted in this form, then we will refer him to the Constitutional Court, so that all that we have identified to the disputers can be asked again. And above all, the constitutional provision of the fee in the case of extradition, the second question of the right to appeal in the event of a provisional decision on the exemption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33110	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Mare Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33111	Dear colleague Grbin, I will remind you that you are certainly in good interest in 2014, then your ministry passed this law. And I really appreciate your suggestions for changing this law. However, I think that this law really at least strengthens these amendments to the law empowers the Institute of Privileges and encourages investment investments. I'm only going to give a number of examples. I'm going to refer to myself in the area where I live. An example of a cemetery in Dubac, it means a project that develops the city of Dubrovnik and the municipality of Župa Dubrovačka as two neighbouring municipalities. So we have no problem with financial nature, we are in a position unlike many other units of local self-government in the area of the Republic of Croatia to provide funds for the construction of that cemetery. However, precisely because of the situation with this law because of the slow and long extradition procedures, the Dubrovnikers are dying and they have nowhere to bury. So we had one of these laws, that we had the possibility of quick exorcism. After all, the witches here, the witches, not the citizens' warlocks. So we have a completely real market value. We could have built a cemetery by now, we wouldn't have such a controversial situation. I really appreciate your comments, you say it's the first reading. Absolutely make all your remarks and suggestions and I believe that in some consensus this law can be passed, but certainly I can't accept the fact that you're saying that one law that was in force, and it was actually completely ineffective, here's an example of this. Let's say I can give another example in Dubrovnik building a sports-recreation center where we have... delivered, however, by private owners seeking unrealistic values. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The city has hired an expert and now, according to that market value, we could realise the project. However, we didn't have the law, but we are going into unnecessary negotiation procedures, extraditions that last for years, and the Dubrovnikers don't have a sports-recreation zone that they can have because the city has funds. However, there are no instruments that can speed up these actions So this law really brings and contributes to the development of an investment environment. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33112	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kristic, I am very glad that you presented this second example in your replica and showed all the justification for what I was saying. So you can't bring into the same category an infrastructure facility like a gas pipeline, like a highway, like a sewer with a sports-recreation hall. As important as health protection is the issue of building a sports-recreation hall cannot be compared to these other categories of facilities of public and municipal infrastructure that I was talking about. Therefore, it is totally unacceptable in the event of the construction of the sports-recreation hall to apply accelerated expropriation mechanisms. So I'll do it again. Property is a constitutional category. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia protects the right to ownership. When you talk about a sports-recreation centre facility, the sports-recreation centre can be privately owned, it can be owned. The public road cannot, by definition, be privately owned. Therefore, it cannot be the same land compensation on which a potentially commercial facility such as a sports and recreation centre and land charges on which only an infrastructure facility can be built can be built can not be built. And in this context, we went to 2014 with this institute as regulated in Article 41. A law of expropriation that regulated the way in which the property was taken without taking away the right of ownership until the proceedings were properly terminated. We're talking about ownership, the constitutional category. And you have to take care of that. And the sports-recreation center can't have priority over private property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33114	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33115	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, in your debate, you said one very important thing that may need to be repeated to Croatian citizens who listen to this debate and analyze this debate, which is that you doubt Article 11 or Article 2 of this Act, which amends Article 11 where it says that the cash compensation is extremely eligible for compensation can be replaced by another relevant real estate. I don't know if it's an honest formulation like this, and what does it mean by exceptional? So how do we define when it's exceptional, in what form it's going to apply, when, in what way? And there is a very simple possibility that people who are exorcised will receive a property that is formally valid especially when it comes to these people who are not present at the location as Mr Horvat said, who will receive a real estate that, real tomorrow or in five years' time, will not be worth nearly what the property from which they were awarded was worth. So I personally also think that if such a formulation is not already deleted, it should be deleted then it should be specified what this means extremely. Because this is how almost any authority can go through in a way that can be depreciated with other real estate, land, or anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33116	Thank you. The answer to the distinguished representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable colleague Maras, it was interesting to read by reading this law the reasoning of Article 2 which states: “The amendment of this provision is proposed because, in practice, as the primary form of compensation, it determines the cash compensation while giving the corresponding replacement property is additionally burdensome and extends the procedure.” It further says: “As the primary form of compensation for the expropriation of real estate, money is determined, and the exceptional award of the corresponding replacement property.” When you read this argument, you would think that so far in the law it was written that the replacement property was primarily granted, and only then the corresponding cash compensation was determined in the law in the final line, so the Constitution prescribed that something else should not be determined exclusively and only market value compensation. So here at the small door is trying to push through the provision of replacement property even at those times when there is no agreement of parties. I fully accept the granting of replacement property if they agree on the one hand by the user of the expropriation, on the other hand the owner of the property. Why? Because then it's their free contractual relationship. It's consensual, it's consensual, the state has nothing to get involved in. But in those situations when you're having an unskilled experience, which is because of the fact that you're not really studying the board of the State Administration's office on a daily basis, so you're checking to see if there's any kind of extradition procedure going on there, let's face it, no one's doing it. You don't know that for a large infrastructure facility like the highway, as you said on the Straight Kotars, there was an extradition procedure. And just one day instead of your real estate, you realize that you've been established by the owner, for example by someone who's been in a carnage or by a stoner. The state must protect property, the state must protect those of its citizens who do not have the ability to protect themselves, and by this law it does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33118	Thank you very much. And the last replica of the esteemed representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grbin, in your presentation, you are having a problem with a temporary solution, and in order to protect ownership as a constitutional category, I agree that ownership as a constitutional category of the Exposition Act must be a fundamental principle which is governed by the legislator. However, in the current law proposed by your government, you have practically made it possible to enter into the property and to start carrying out the work on a property that has not yet been settled. In particular, we made it possible by the Construction Act that we only adopted eight days ago, when we practically enable the investor to get a building permit without any real estate rights resolved and a administrative permit will come out. Therefore, compared to the solution previously formally made, the owner of the property has not changed anything significant because you allowed him to enter the property by law, and then, clearly, to carry out the works necessary for the realisation of the project and he was still sentenced through the appeal for a solution to establish a fair market fee for all the real estate. In this way the difference is that the epilogue is the same but the difference is that now the user of the expropriation is listed in the land book we can say that he performs works based on a building permit... enrollment in the land book practically be the basis for the construction permit which your law did not allow, you understand. That's the difference. So, we're speeding up this law is speeding up the procedure, allowing the user to enter the land book and I would say in a more legal way access to the performance of the works. And before that was for the owner of the property the epilogue was the same left without real estate only that through another procedure proves its right and seeks the market value of the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33120	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33121	You're not a very well-respected colleague for a very simple reason. I'll try to explain it to you. So, we're dividing the procedure here into two parts, so a temporary decision will be made against that solution, and I will repeat it once again, and only against that solution on the basis of the new articles that are introduced into the law is not an appeal allowed. What does that mean? It's going to be an administrative dispute. And you and I both know that the administrative dispute will not be settled in 15 days or 30 but will last over a year, but see what the problem is, while the administrative dispute is going on, there is no further compensation procedure because the administrative dispute on the previous issue is going on. In contrast to the solution so far where only the question of entry into the property has been determined, and the beneficiary of the expropriation has to pay the money at that time, he must pay the money to the owner in order to obtain the property and continue to conduct the compensation procedure. So you added the owner of the property to at least a year's dispute before the court, and why I say at least a year's dispute before the court, because the owner of the property is in agreement with the assessment of the experts, we would not have made a temporary decision on the expropriation because a solution would have been made or a settlement would have been concluded. Therefore, in any event where the owner disagrees with the assessment of those witches that the State Administration has designated exclusively and only of those applicants or those evaluators provided by the beneficiary of the exemption, he will have to initiate the administrative dispute. Only after the administrative dispute is over will he be able to get into the situation to get that compensation he thinks or which by nature things belong to him. So, fellow, you hereby attack the owner, on property and in general on the most unprotected citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Don't do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33122	Thank you. The next one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will be addressed by distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33123	Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation and indeed an extremely important law, because private property is a constitutional category and the Constitution guarantees the right of ownership. Therefore, the right of ownership can only be restricted or withdrawn by a special law, and it is precisely the law of expropriation that restricts or withdraws the right of ownership. And that is why every amendment to this law, of course, needs to be analysed in an extremely detailed manner because the basic and fundamentally one of the principles of our entire legal system is private property and it enjoys special protection. But on the other hand, we need to know that very often there are strong public general interests in building infrastructure facilities, building schools, hospitals, roads, railway infrastructures, and that these facilities are very often located in plans where private property exists. On the one hand, the goal is to protect private society, to protect private property, and on the other hand, as a society, to naturally build and develop all these facilities that are of general benefit that are of general and public interest. And that's why it's both a goal and an interest to build these facilities in one, I'd say, an effective and fast procedure where the maximum protection of private property will be again, but allowed investors to enter the property as soon as possible, to get all the documentation done. And that's why I think the ministry carried out, as the secretary of state said, a certain analysis has been carried out and it has actually seen that these procedures that are being conducted are quite slow. Despite the fact that the 2014 law has also made certain improvements for us, these things are not working again. So here we at the HDZ Club think that this is a good law that has been proposed in the first reading and debate that is so far, here I have the opportunity to speak as the 5th club and I have heard colleagues who have been making remarks before me, but at this stage, the whole series of very users and relevant proposals, an observation in which a second reading should be clearly taken into account and some decisions should be made. Our position is that the law is good because it solves one very important thing. This solution that has been spoken of, therefore, a temporary solution to which the user of the expropriation, so the investor acquires the right of the owner, is a good solution for us immediately. For a clear reason why if we analyze most of the expropriation procedures we see is actually that it's always a dispute not so much about ownership but it's a fee dispute. The fee is actually the place where the investor and the owner of the land find it difficult to negotiate. I would only put here as a proposal for a second reading if you might consider replacing the Institute of Temporary Solution with the Institute of Partial Solution. Because the temporary solution, therefore, has a temporary character and when it is brought to the final, so let me say a solution to the expropriation then this temporary solution is put out of effect. And based on the temporary solution, the investor is listed as the owner. Now, when we see actually the possibility of a administrative dispute relative to a temporary solution then we'll get into a problem and then we can get into a problem actually because someone's already signed up as the owner, maybe the administrative lawsuit is accepted so the thing returned to the beginning, it's possible to be confirmed. And we're actually going to go back in one of these circles. So I think we should think this through. I support the momentum and aim of the legislator to address ownership rights as soon as possible, because ownership rights will allow the investor access to funds, will allow him access to credit investments, certainly much more quality than on the basis of the elaborates and the foundation of the intention of doing something. That is why I think it is good to think about it again because the possibility of administrative disputes and against a temporary solution and against a final solution to expropriation can make things more complicated. And this partial solution which therefore resolves one part of the extradition procedure, which is the right to ownership, is then completed and can then also be against it, the possibility of a complaint and the possibility of a administrative dispute can be opened. In any case, our Constitution guarantees the right to appeal. However, he also says it is possible and there is no right to appeal if legal protection is provided in another way. The administrative dispute is one correct way because we now have a two-stage administrative trial. We have an administrative dispute in the first degree and we have an administrative dispute in the second degree in front of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. I think this law strengthens the position of landowners before he chooses, which he chooses and can suggest to the experts what has been very limited so far. It is also a stronger position because the administrative dispute is also contradictory, so the owner can also discuss that second step of the legal path, can also debate before the administrative court. This is very important, therefore, that throughout a number of procedures it can express its views and opinions and achieve protection. What has been said is that the Constitution says that property can be taken away with the payment of a market fee. However, in view of the current law, we in Article 11, we are required to pay a market fee to the owner for the severance of real estate or full exemption, and in Article 46, we have provisions relating to the compensation which are prescribed that it is fundamentally, the basic principle is the replacement property, and then, if it is not possible, the compensation. So we already have one opposite in the law that's being settled here, I think in a good way because it's being introduced as a fundamental principle of payment of the market fee. The payment of the market fee is, in fact, the owner to me the only, the only right way. And what was said about the replacement property, instead of the real estate that is being ruled out, I think it's relatively easy to solve for the second reading and just put that the replacement is possible with the agreement means the investor or the user's expropriation with the owner. So we can't just impose on the owner some substitute real estate he doesn't want. That's where I think we have to protect the individual and put him in the choice. I must say that a very important question is also about the procedures of expropriation, the setting up of our land books. In the past 10 years and more money has been invested, especially loans from the World Bank to build a common information system. The common information system, this means that one place we collect data that is kept and registered in land books, which refers to ownership and other real rights. And on the other hand, we have that data that's in the catastro. These are the data actually relating to the very form of real estate and the very technical characteristics of it. We have these data in one place today, but these data are in a very common number and a large number ratio not harmonised. It is, of course, necessary to bring all of this into line so that we have land books that are actually one of the main problems, both for the economy and for the investment, and of course it reflects on the expropriation. The exorcism here is what we've all concluded is a very strict institute that is intruding into private property, into someone's homeland, into someone's grandfather, and it's in itself really stressful procedures. But without extradition, no progress, no development, no school building, no hospital building. And the fundamental question is how to carry out this procedure quickly, but still in this process to protect the private owner from suffering damage. And here I think this law is on track, it introduces faster procedures, it puts a private owner in a better position than it has so far. So he chooses the witches, he participates in all of it. Now, this is one issue of this temporary solution. So, because when we enroll the user or investor, when we sign him up as the owner of a temporary solution, he's listed as such in the land books. Then the question is, what are we going to do? When that final decision comes about expropriation, if it determines otherwise how we're going to do it. And even if it confirms whether it will, because I know that the courts will certainly ask one formal question whether we must now do a new entry based on that solution or whether it will be worth the temporary solution. These are the things to read about until the second reading, thank God we have a lot of time to push it away. But in any case, we think that this is where the ministry is well thought out and that the ministry is going in the right direction. So in our first reading, here is our support on behalf of the HDZ Club, with this law, that these remarks that we have highlighted, I think we should discuss well so that we don't have any problems in practice tomorrow, because this is a really new solution that has never happened so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33124	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. The first one is the distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33125	Thank you very much. My colleague Bošnjaković, I fully agree with your findings, and I will now and when I have more time to discuss this, this new law and the new proposal, which has indeed made a real solution in this proposal, first of all, for local, regional self-government regarding those directions that are necessary for the progress and construction of the Republic of Croatia. Of course there are people here in this House who just don't fit this bill. I wonder why? But your debate has just spoken, and I fully support that this law guarantees that all those investments that are intended to be built in any way. Because this law just allows us to solve all the problems we've had in local self-government so far. I don't know why this law would be controversial if the law protects the one who owns the land, but it certainly gives priority to the state or the institution involved in the construction of any capital investment, to simply achieve those plans and those goals that are envisaged. And that is why, in any case, I support this Law and I commend it for having finally solved everything that is in the previous law, which has not been passed by the previous SDP government. And all those shortcomings that were a problem in that law were solved by this new proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33126	The honourable representative Drazen Bosnjakovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33127	As a longtime head of a local self-government unit, you can really assess it with a lot of competence because you probably had some extradition procedures yourself, so where you saw it actually took quite a long time and it was all ineffective together. I would say here that it is particularly good that the ministry has decided to put this law into regular procedure in two readings. So everything here that's said I would say in good intentions is discussed until the second reading and find actually the best solutions that will work in practice. It is very difficult actually to predict all the life situations that a certain regulation can produce. The more they are predicted, the more they are actually tried to regulate the law will last longer and will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33128	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33129	Thank you very much. I would like to agree with you that the constitutional category of private ownership must be protected and that is the basis of democracy. However, it is important, particularly in terms of public interest. You emphasized it in which segments. So we have examples now, projects of agglomeration that the Croatian state and numerous cities have to do, i.e. they even have deadlines where they will have to have numerous penalties. So here's an example of an agglomeration field in the town of Sinj, we only have this 240 million kuna project to clean up 2400 particles of land, where we have until 31.12.2018 to clean it up, so that the project can be financed from EU funds. And it's basically a very important project because it protects the Cetina River as well as other areas, other cities. Some cities have already gone far in this project, this project is being implemented. Those are huge brakes. If the city remained, unmade communal and EU directives that we had approached, to build these communal facilities that are very important as municipal infrastructure and protection of river basins in this case, Cetina. That's positive. However, we must fear and fear, legal protection if someone is ruling the island for their private interest, and this is the judiciary very important and what happens is that concreteisation is happening to many islands, our coasts, and that's the problem. In this case, we see that the expropriation is necessary because it won't work out in a year and a half if we don't change the law on projects of very important agglomeration, but we need to keep these others safe, and these are the private interests that can be compromised. No, it is not developmental for Croatia but can be endangered owners who have their own parcels at target locations of various smugglers and various people who want to earn money on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33130	Thank you. The respected representative Bosnjakovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33131	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Bully, exorcism always goes in the public interest. However, I understand more that in this public interest there is often a private interest. And I fully agree with you that those bodies that conduct the procedure must make sure that such things do not occur. I think the law offers clear tools and mechanisms to recognize it, but what's key, here's to you realising this project he offers opportunities for this process to be fair, correct, yet fast and efficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33132	The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33133	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. So what is important, dear colleague Bosnjakovic, which you have pointed out is that by introducing an additional exceptional one in Article 11 it is changing that, apart from the level of market value defined by the Constitution, it is possible to offer other relevant properties, so what you have pointed out is that this is also the law so far provided for in Article 46 that it was only supplemented here by Article 11 that it was expensive and that in this way nothing was actually injured by the Constitution of the Republic that really says that the compensation must be in market value. It is therefore extremely important to note that these changes did not harm the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33134	Thank you. The respected representative Bosnjakovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33135	Dear colleagues. I said in the statement that this possibility of compensation to the owner to whom his grandfather or father-in-law is being taken can actually be expressed and given in a way that is given to him by other property, but it would be good to install it only in agreement with that owner, so that this solution cannot be imposed on him but he must accept it to get another appropriate particle which actually suits his needs and then I think it is a just and just solution. And this, in the Constitution, really states that the fee for the severance of real estate is a fee for money in market value, but this is how one contractual solution does not touch or insult anything in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33136	There is also a respectable representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33137	Thank you. Comrade Bošnjaković, I have followed your debate and you have very reasonedly exposed and defended the position of these changes and I agree fully with you in the fact that something needs to be done to speed up and simplify the procedure. It's absolutely in everyone's interest and the general benefit is that. That's why I appreciate the ministry's efforts and the proposings for making a suggestion. However, as lawyers, we are discussing a key matter, which is an article 36th entry of ownership based on a temporary solution, a entry into somebody else's property, a restriction on other people's ownership, can not formally happen on the basis of temporary but on the basis of final solutions. So I appeal to the promoter to accept this criticism as some kind of a desire to crystallize the whole thing, not to come into conflict with constitutional provisions, with different opinions of constitutional experts, tomorrow when the law is passed because there will also be conflicting opinions and probably someone will ask the question of the constitutionality of such a way of entering private property. Besides, I think the public hearing should be a little wider. It was carried out here online in 20 days from 8.5 to 2.6.6, practically one important law that enters private property should encourage investments, etc., etc. In my opinion, he should have had one broad social debate except as it was on the Internet on the Ministry's website.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33138	Thank you. The respected representative Bosnjakovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33139	Comrade Horvat, in your presentation you expired a whole series of questions those four how you put them together which are very relevant and about them really need to take a stand. So I reiterate that it is very good that this law goes into two readings because we have the possibility to discuss all these issues for the next six months. And I'm in relation to this temporary solution where I'm not quite inclined to sign the right of ownership on the basis of a temporary solution I've offered an alternative, and that's a partial solution. Therefore, a somewhat small and more complete procedure is being implemented prior to the adoption of a partial solution. But it seems to me from experience that the dispute in expropriation is very often not the right of ownership, but it is mainly compensation and the amount of compensation. And so I think that a partial solution to that would solve most of the issue, but the clear ministry has a very certain working group that will look at it from all aspects and this constitutional and really legal one, so I believe that for the second reading we will get answers to these questions that we have opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33140	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives of the HNS-HSU on behalf of which the distinguished representative Milorad Batinic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33141	Thank you, Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. After 2014, when the Act on Exclusion was adopted and certain articles which began to apply from 1.1.2016 and a principled explanation of why this law is amended. And when we look at the contents of the HNS Club, we have certain doubts and we believe that certain changes are controversial, primarily that they are not in line with the Constitution that guarantees ownership rights and also certain procedures that we can understand for the benefit of investors, which we have nothing against, however, not at the expense of the property owners. Here, I will try very briefly what is most interesting and what we question in this bill of law. In fact, we all have certain experiences, depending on what level, when it comes to certain infrastructure projects, the problem of expropriation. And what's said here is also said by the proposings and also on the position side, one thesis that we think is questionable, and I don't think it should be an argument. It is primarily done that it is not the disputed provisions of the amendments to this article, the administrative dispute, the temporary solution, but that the most concerns and the most problems with the exemption are that the price of the property to be ruled. We're breaking in again, keying the Constitution to the right of ownership which I think is not good primarily and for the sake of the public for the message to be sent. We agree that the exorcism procedures are long-term, so far, whether they can be done faster or not, that is, practice says one thing. However, I would take us back a little bit before the start of the investment projects themselves, the procedure why we are in principle that certain procedures can be speeded up as much as possible in accordance with the Constitution. It's primarily about spatial planning documentation. When changes to the spatial planning documents were made then capital infrastructure projects, so it did not come out yesterday, it was not known that the railway, road, pipeline, pipeline or whatever, from capital projects which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia would be built yesterday, we must immediately implement that exemption. So in the very process of public insight, public debates in changing and supplementing spatial plans, property owners going through or on which an investment project will be implemented are familiar with what and how it will be built. Next, one suggestion. At that time, we should be in some way contacting, talking to those owners and preparing a story and not just, because some, let's be honest, let's be honest, many owners don't even know what they're planning on their plots, on their land. Generally, that's the problem. That was the problem when highways were being built, that's also the problem with many today's infrastructure projects. Furthermore, what is also controversial and I don't think it is, can these amendments of the law be resolved that is what is the burning problem of the Republic of Croatia's land book, land book. How are you going to do the extradition, let's say you have the last entry into the grant books, the land books of 1912, how are you going to solve the expropriation in that section? So without the court, it's not going. I would like to have the proposer in that part, in principle, for investment, investment infrastructure projects. Well, let's just say I'd agree if it were also a recreational centre, which was what my colleague Kristic said. And it's a project of general social interest but not at heart, not against the Constitution, not at the expense of the property owner. Furthermore, the proposal is that the temporary solution should be part of the part that has been assessed by the expert to deprive the owner. Yeah, with a temporary solution, to let him go on a visit but not to be in land books, in a garter to enlist an investor as a real estate owner. Which, by the way, you have dozens of them, not to say hundreds, that already there's a note on that property in the grant books, that's what the practice has shown. In particular, I believe that all those who at the local level had the extradition procedures were already a note. What then? That's the problem. I'd like to see the second reading and try that part or give an interpretation of what and how to solve it. Furthermore, it writes in, meaning in this section of the opening, provisional solution, it says, and thus will provide investors with timely ownership rights, extended property for the purpose of, in particular, making use of funds from the European Union funds. So is that exactly how colleagues and colleagues are? Is that right? So I'd like to hear that I'm told which infrastructure project can't get funds from the EU funds for this extradition process that we're passing the law on. I'd like to be taxed on my projects. There aren't any. Let's not, because we need to explain this law to our citizens, to our citizens. For the outstanding real estate of Article 2 of the Law, Article 11 is amended as follows: other relevant real estates", they may support. I can support it but it says, "For the real estate, the cash compensation is in the amount of market value and, exceptionally, other relevant real estate. Why not? I'll make a switch. In practice, we used to do this locally when we needed to implement some projects etc. That's totally acceptable. I don't see a doubt here. Furthermore, the procedural problems that can arise are therefore a matter of practice, and I see no reason why it would be broken much about it. Now, Article 36a. So he's saying, but this is a little bit controversial to me, somehow it's falling away from democratic practice. The Ministry or competent authority shall, at the request of the beneficiary of the authorisation, adopt a provisional solution after the oral hearing has been held. It is imperative, regardless of how this debate should be discussed. So we prejudge that this debate will end in favour of investors. So is it or is it just a practice to have to write it like that? To confirm that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is established by law or decision referred to in Article 13. Well, it's a little controversial. Try to read it a little bit more, work it out for yourself. It means the first paragraph of Article 36a. He says, "What is the interest of the Republic of Croatia that the law and decision referred to in Article 3 will confirm its interest? Well, hasn't there been any interest before, and now we need to confirm it again? That's more like what I'd say about lawyers' questions, but to me, I'll say I'm a layman, I don't have any legal logic, and I don't understand maybe a legal dictionary. However, there are certain things absolutely, usually man when it comes to reading, then the very same question is asked how much it is in agreement. Article 36b further. means what it has to contain, so number two says: "Book". So that's what I've already said, so note it to us is an unacceptable solution, it's controversial. It's not doubtful, it's controversial. And we're absolutely against it. Before the full exemption procedure is completed, the other owner, the investor, is listed in the land books. How? Whether part of the fee is paid, whether it is a final solution. No enrolment by us is an unacceptable solution to enrolling in grant books. Because both EU funds and funds can be used without this enrolment as soon as the extradition procedure is launched, can be run, can be obtained. So that's not the reason, that's not the reason. The administrative dispute can be understood, however, I would like to hear the practice, the length of the duration of the administrative disputes and why we deny the right to appeal. Perhaps there, it says in the bill that the procedure will be accelerated after a temporary solution, etc. So does practice tell us? My colleagues and colleagues don't. No, I don't. I would ask the legislator to tell me what the average duration of the administrative dispute is. And then what? Some things can happen on the real estate market, so the administrative dispute is settled after four, five years, six. Is it then provided for by this law that an audit of the real estate assessment may be requested or that audit is valid five years ago when a temporary solution has been issued. I'd like to ask you as the owner to give me now at the moment when the dispute is resolved, when I have no other things, but now for me, give me an estimate of the real estate. Well, real estate prices are rising or falling, depending on trends. So that's what I think if most of you, and you want most of your hands to do that, then I would suggest that you also predict this variant. The fact I would also like you to install whether there is room, whether there is a possibility of what I mentioned, means from the very initiation of infrastructure projects since the changes and addition of spatial-planning documentation already at the time the investor needs to know where, how, what. And that's one way perhaps that these long ones are some, some very short ones, some take longer, some very long, procedures of exorcism that can be reduced to a reasonable, reasonable period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33142	Thank you. And your exposure has caused more replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33143	Dear fellow Batinić, you mentioned in your debate that the creation of urban plans, i.e. spatial plans, already knows where some infrastructure procedure is going, and that at that moment, the owners of the property in that corridor can count on this extradition procedure, i.e. that some corridor passes through their land. I really wish that were the case. However, practice has shown that when spatial plans are done, here is an example below in our Croatian example, a traffic-integrated study. All these corridors capture far greater space, or much greater width than the one that will really be at the moment when something is going to be projected. So we have examples of life to say in the village of Hreljin it is a ploted corridor of the future highway that leads across the city of the Kingdom of Vinodolska and that part of it, that the corridor is about 500 m wide and that the corridor in that space passes the tunnel. And at this point in the spatial plan, he's simply not visible. And all the owners of the land that was in the construction area are now practically blocked, can't dispose of that land, can't go into any kind of design because their land goes through some sort of corridor. For example, the second Krasica village, where it was planned at the cemetery, the Rural Station of some future flat-rate railway line according to some kind of strategy from 2009, 2010, and the previous government took the view that it is better to build a two-way line from Karlovac towards Delnice and through the tunnel from Delnice, Fužin to the Randing Station of a future one on... to slaughter something that is in the spatial plan. It has been drawn as some kind of infrastructure corridor, however, the issue is only in the finality of a project with which space, i.e. land particles, the infrastructure operation will pass. Which is why and what's important, but here's the time I don't have, so in another replica, urban plans are entrepreneurship zones. And there I can definitely agree with you and there's already known what's going to happen on that land.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33144	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33145	Thank you, Vice President. When I mentioned in the context of the debate on amendments to the Law on Extortion, I mentioned spatial plans, but in the context of again infrastructure projects of state level of interest for the Republic of Croatia and by logic of things if you are in the city running some infrastructure project then you will not bring a spatial plan and tomorrow you already go into something advance... you have spatial plans are to take up space to book for something. So should any changes in spatial plans in the context of what will be corrected tomorrow, but I'm saying that for capital infrastructure projects that I don't see, I don't know, you might know about some, I don't know what are current tomorrow that should be in these amendments to the law or in some other changes to the law try to prevent the long-term these extradition processes. That's how I mentioned the spatial plan in that context. With a spatial plan, we book space for something, it's a fact. Some things we don't know when we're going to build. But the very intensity of the change goes this isn't in the interest, this is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, but I'm afraid there are no infrastructure projects where the investor will be the RH, it's private investments that I absolutely support. And we know very well how and how they go. Every investment is good and of interest to the Republic of Croatia absolutely, but let's not get over the knee of some things to bring and solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33146	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33147	You hit a fellow Batinić in the heart of the problem. It may not be at this point about the extradition, but you did say one fact that the landowner in the Republic of Croatia hasn't changed since Austria-Hungarian times. If it hadn't been for Austro-Hungarian, it would still be obvious in caves how much movement there was. So we have a cadastre where owners are landowners where they are real owners, it's so mixed up in most of the Republic of Croatia in the most part, and it's a huge problem of exorcism and of very important municipal and other projects both at the local and regional level and at the state level. However, it is very important, as I said earlier, for very important projects for certain environments such as agglomeration projects financed mostly from eu funds. So here I will mention again in my Sinj only for this project that is worth 240 million kunas should be cleaned up so that a project can be implemented at all, and we have deadlines and possible if we do not meet these deadlines, not possible, but there will also be huge sanctions for the Croatian state at all levels. What's the problem here? Here's the problem that you've guessed that we wouldn't accidentally be wrapped up in some kind of private interest under these powers of private interest that wouldn't be strategically relevant to a local or state level. So a case doesn't happen like that. what happened with the wind power plants or today the TE Peruca case in Sinj where some investors want to get involved, and the same case would happen as with green energy that happened to wind power plants to break out money from citizens' pockets or our budget. So we should make sure that numerous investments are not at the expense of Croatian citizens as did the former government of Zoran Milanovic and Minister Vrdoljak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33148	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33149	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bulj and these wind power plants are the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia as long as it may not seem to you. Energy independence is an extremely important and national security part of national security. Well, I mentioned land books, and I tried to quote in my debate several examples that I don't think have been touched enough by these amendments and the amendments to the law, which could have been solved and could have been proposed. First of all, unsettled property relations in land books, that's a general problem, and it could be. There are well other institutes that can be dealt with but certainly affect the duration of the extradition procedure, to try. I also said that it's positive, and now there's a possibility before the process of expropriating a deal with the owners and I can let you in now, but this is a good solution, I support this. So release the procedure, etc., but not in land books delete the existing owner, and the process is not completed, no final solution has been reached. That's unacceptable. When I mentioned he had a 912-year-old owner from his own experience. You have 6 or 7, 12 registered and there are objective problems. And the ransom itself, not to mention the exorcism when we were rounding up and buying land for the business zone lasted five, six months. That would be the most elegant thing to do, but I think it's not in accordance with the Constitution and there's what we think of in the HNS is controversial. The property is a constitutional category and no one, not even the state should register unless the procedure has been resolved to the end. That was the intensity of my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33150	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Mare Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33151	Dear colleague, first of all, I would like to commend your debate, which was very constructive. However, in one part of your debate you also mentioned the issue of the price in relation to the protection of the rights of the owner. Therefore, the definition or the amount by which the value of a land should be determined is defined by a spatial plan as a basic document which determines the future development of a local community. Why am I saying that? For example, you mentioned the example of the sports-recreation zone in the city of Dubrovnik with me. In fact, the city of Dubrovnik has defined this as a space of public interest and has determined one space of Our Lady's field in Dubrovnik to want to build a sports-recreation zone on it. We had a problem in the current law because these exorcism processes were such that simply if the landowners did not want to accept the value of the expert, i.e. which was hired by the city of Dubrovnik, they would simply refuse the possibility that the sport-recreation zone in the area would be built and never built. Now we have one situation in which, nevertheless, through the Institute, we protect the market value of this land, because that value of this land is defined by a spatial plan. The court expert is used by the tax administration manual and has assessed the real market value of this exemption and owners will actually get market value there, however, because of their ambitions which are not market-based, they will not be able to prevent the development of a project that is of public interest. And I think in that context this law is good. So owners will still get the market value of land, will not stop the development of projects that are of public interest and the local community will get what it has agreed to in its own spatial plan, which is, for example, a sports-recreation zone here. Not to mention projects such as cemeterys, etc., which are also very important for the development of local communities. So I believe that this bill strengthens the institution of expropriation, protects the rights of private owners and improves the investment climate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33152	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33153	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Kristic, I said in the debate, so this example of yours is also in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I couldn't agree more, so if it's a private investment, if it's a held investment, I'm not making a difference. And I wouldn't want to bring private investors or their investments into the context of something suspicious, absolutely not. However, I also said that what we have a dispute about in this law, not only doubts but also a dispute, is that a temporary solution is to register an investor in land books. That's controversial. Furthermore, I think that, with certain adjustments, all of this could be accepted. However, as long as it is not a final solution, by a court decision or by which no book has been made, it must not be done because under this law it allows the investor to build everything, but of course you can't take away something from me that I don't want to give. Now, is there speculation here? It's always been and it will be. The one who sells to him is cheap, the one who buys is always expensive. There's not much wisdom in it. That's why, if you have spatial plans for a price-defined zone, it's benefit. Although it went through a public debate and all these procedures, if citizens were obvious. However, when I mentioned spatial plans and in this context also in the context of the adoption of spatial plans such as public debate, what is the interest of interested citizens in including them. So you have, as many people as a percentage, very few people actively participate in a public debate in the adoption of spatial plans. It's a reality. And there's generally a big problem. Always so far, my experience is, I believe, the vast majority of us that this, let's say a temporary solution and such a way that the owner does not want to accept, will virtually and will not succumb to the interest, of greater interest, of national interest that he might want to speculate, I think it's a small number.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33154	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Batinić, I'd like to replicate two things from your presentation. You say that the temporary solution and entry into the land book, restricting ownership rights, and you say that given the unsettled property legal relations and how and how to implement that temporary solution in the land book. Neither you nor I can expect this law to resolve the issue of catasters and land books. Therefore, it is clear that that solution will not be implemented in the land book unless the conditions for enrolment are obtained before this. Therefore, this temporary solution will either enroll you in the land book if the land book is arranged or will allow you to enter another court procedure as a beneficiary of the expropriation on the basis of a temporary solution. That's one thing. So what I'm saying is, we can't do this by law, no matter what gives you the right to enroll you directly unless the property is settled. That's understood. And the other thing is you ask yourself, even on several occasions, you ask yourself, tell me one project that will make it impossible for European funds to come out unless it's implemented in the land book. And you tell me one project that will provide you with funds if you're not listed in the land book. There's no project here. Namely, you can apply for European funds based on a location permit. The local permit does not mean that you have an entry in the land book but you will only get approval that you are a beneficiary of EU funds. And in order to truly use these funds and you have to perform the works, to perform these works, you have to have a building permit, and to have a building permit, you have to be in writing in the land book. So here, there's no problem with the registration and ownership of the property so you can apply. Here I agree with you, the location permit is the basis for dating. .../Intruder Reiner: Thank you. but the use of funds that you can really implement these funds is the entry into the land book and building permit and the works carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33156	The answer of the distinguished MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33157	I am pleased with my colleague Bačić that you too agree with part of my debate when I said that, namely, the initiative to make certain controversial things that are happening in practice, that you should perhaps look back at these amendments and amendments to the law. Land Book, Catastre. What's concrete about the bank's record of some real estate? I just wanted to highlight the practice that I faced at the local level and still the problems that we have to solve with this bill, to find some model. As for infrastructure projects, of course there are procedures, construction laws, we know all that. It's all very clear. But I just looked back at the opening argument, where it says that you might get to have it. He doesn't have to. And that's where I agree. You have to have a building permit, property so you can ask for money for something. Absolutely. That's not what I was talking about, and we all know it more or less. Land books and cadastres, that we will not settle this law. This must be solved in another way and perhaps, perhaps now will sound a little strange and unpopular, but I would like to suggest that there be a little deeper examination of the practice and principle of law that we had on the law of illegally built legalized objects. Is it possible that such a similar model can be solved by grant and cadastre over time for three to five years? Here's a clean lawmaker that, to think about seeing if such an institute, is such a model possible in that part too. Practically, yes. Whether it's formally legal or not, the ministry has to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33158	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here in my opening statement, I will say immediately at the beginning that, and as a longtime head of local self-government, that I am very pleased with the adoption of this law because this law will solve many of the doubts we have had so far, and also in 2014 when it was brought by the previous Government of the SDP, I also suggested to former Minister Milenić that the law was unarranged on the issue of extradition, as regards capital investments both at the level of the state, at the level of local, regional self-government. But they disobeyed and passed the law as they had suggested. Of course, the time that was later realized that this law did not work, that it made it difficult to resolve, above all, the procedures and the arrival of those investors to property over the land, that these extradition procedures lasted not months but where both complicated situations and several years. And here I also thank this government that recognized first and foremost the interest of resolving and passing this law and the ministry itself, because through this law we will solve exactly the problem that is pressing us at this moment. We are witnessing that, in the shortest time period, the Republic of Croatia wants to strengthen its capital investments, attract foreign investors and, of course, all those investments concerning local, regional self-government, which we will apply right through EU funds without this law, are in fact indecisible. And that's why all these amendments that are concrete in this law, and as I said earlier in the previous law that was passed in 2014 were not specifically agreed, and at that time I warned that it was precisely an indetermination in a particular law, and at that time it was the Law on Execution that it had just happened and that this same law could be interpreted as being twofold, that the one who owns the land would at some point enable him to be the owner and not to be the owner. At that time, I suggested that just as the proposal in this law today is that the owner of the land should be compensated by the basis of the appraiser, the judicial assessor, and that at no time be abolished. But that, at the same time, an investor, whether a state local or regional self-government can implement its intention to build a certain capital investment. So, it is evident that so far these have been problems and this law will allow precisely that, regardless of the property of the court's assessment, by paying the funds into a particular account, the investor can continue to act, i.e. building a capital investment, and in this way we will solve the problem of all those investors, and I hope that the Republic of Croatia will certainly have a far greater number of investments in the future than it has had to date. We have just witnessed that all the investments that have been made so far have been an obstacle to this kind of expropriation, or to the problems that have been happening. Even before one speedy procedure, and based on this, the Ministry of Construction passed one speedy law last week, and based on the Zagreb Airport, it is clear that our laws are unarranged. And in order to get private, or foreign investors, we simply need to change our laws and change the laws that are enforceable, which are not ambiguous. And so once again, I say and I commend this bill that maybe until the second reading, I agree with certain colleagues and colleagues here in the debate, you may experience certain changes, but you must not experience major changes that would be a problem again today so that the same law on expropriation would not be in place, and then we will literally return to the old age of the previous law that was really causing major problems for investors. As I come from Požega-Slavon County, I will only tell you an example of one, Požega-Slavon County has had major elemental disasters, we in cooperation with the relevant ministries in cooperation specifically with Croatian waters, and here we are in preparation for a major project for us, so building up the embankment and protection of the area in the Pleternica and surrounding settlements and how to protect our area from such elemental disasters. We wanted to say in the past government how important this is and how we wanted to build such an important project in the short process, but they did not answer our request, regardless of what 500 households were under water, that we suffered damages of over 180 million kuna, and we just wanted to build up a rash by a quick decision of the government, but in this law, regardless of the government's will, but there is also an obstacle called exaggeration. It is this new law that we will allow all the settlements, all the cities and municipalities that are in the future, and don't let God in this way in a simpler way build exactly flood defense systems or don't give God any other evil that can happen to us, that in one quick way we build what we need so much. I also remember the construction of the A1 highway which also had its major problems in terms of expropriation, but since the state's interest was primarily in building a large capital investment at that time was not such a law, but it was the state that had simply ordered the expropriation of the regulation, but it was only those investments that were individuals and owners of certain land that did not agree with the government's proposal and the expropriation at the time, and I have to say that there were some speculators and individual mayors and mayors of certain cities who had just been blackmailing the state and demanding enormously high prices for their land. It is also in this proposal of this law that every seller of his land will not be suspended or it must not be denied that it is based on people who deal with estimates, but above all, the Tax Administration that has the value of that land is a guarantee that these people will not be abolished. And that is why I am sure that this law also allows guarantees to those who sell the country, but above all to investors that they will be able to build and implement their ideas in the future both in spatial plans in urban plans or at any state level. Here today, colleagues and colleagues have talked about one problem, and it is certainly a cadastre and grantovnica, but I will note that the Ministry of Civil Engineering is now working to prepare this project where we are about to agree with one new law and the positions and catastra and grantovnica and where exactly this new proposal of this law will come synergy of both of us and I'm sure when we do, and that it is the future of investors in Croatia and that we will not talk as today about how there are no investors, how investors bypass us. And they're bypassing us precisely because of the indeterminateness and tax system that we've corrected because I say as I just said before, the previous government had no understanding, but this government is doing everything in its power to stop it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33160	Thank you very much. We have two replicas again. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33161	Dear fellow Lucic. You said you said hello and that you were pleased with this bill. Here I fully support you in the part relating to both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry in order to speed up the very procedure in which investments could be launched. The practice so far has also shown that all of us who have been in positions to launch certain projects, infrastructure operations, and especially in that part of the economic zone has shown, for example, that in Rijeka, a simple breakdown of co-ownership, where the co-owner in 1/20 has been going on for 6, 7, 8 years and still has no solution while this land has been blocked for any investment has shown that these changes and what we are talking about right now are a dry need. With regard to our time when we also discussed the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure during the term of office of the last government on the Law on Strategic Investments, you and I highlighted another problem that referred to the land which was not subject to this law, the Law on Execution, but in the same way this land can apply this law. So the Exclusion Act stipulates what the land can be ruled out for, so it's infrastructure, plumbing, sewerage, roads, all that. However, it is not about something that is very important and of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia, about land within the scope of economic, entrepreneurial, industrial areas. I think that in this part or this law, as well as those laws when they come to the agenda and which will refer to economic and entrepreneurial infrastructure, this model should be discussed to apply this law in the same way and without declaring the particular interest of the Republic of Croatia because the economic zones themselves are in themselves of the interest of Croatia. The answer of the distinguished representative Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33162	The answer of the distinguished representative Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33163	I agree with my colleague, Klaric, with your thoughts because you are one longtime mayor of the city of Bakar. And yet your area is an example of all those areas in Croatia. And if you have such problems, and indeed you have made one economic development, which is rare that the environment has made in Croatia, this law will further improve you as a successful mayor but certainly also those other environments that meet with such long-term solutions. I was a longtime mayor of the town of Pleternica myself, and we met exactly like this where we solved a particular problem for 4, 5 years because we, for example, solved 9 people but failed on the 10th. And that is why this law will allow our capital investment in local units, regional self-governments to take place much faster, and thus we will solve the issue and unemployment and create new jobs. But first of all, we'll allow those investors, those contractors to work, to hire people. But it will also make the Republic of Croatia feel at all levels of the tax administration, from the employment office. And I'm sure it's laws like this, but first of all, I'm sorry that these laws weren't passed long before we had six or seven years to realize that the law wasn't good enough to change it. So I welcome once again all those people who support you first and foremost here in this House, people who face such problems, this new bill. And I'm sure he will solve many of the problems in the future that await us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33164	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33165	Dear colleague, I'm glad you brought out some critical things about this law, not only of this law but of all the laws relating to private property. I'm glad there's a lady from the Justice Department. I think you've mentioned one word 10 times, that word is unspeakable. I wonder what kind of law exists in Croatia. Is that Roman law? Anglo-Saxon? Socialist? How can we apply hundreds of EU rules when we have not yet come out of post-Communist confusion? We've been told from Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt 15 years ago that land books were digitized. Here, today we hear the same thing again and at the same time we learn that 5% of the land books are arranged. Who's gonna invest here? No one's going to invest. It's just... in Croatia, the last 20 years have been IKEA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, what about, does anyone have any data and why there are two taboo words in the Croatian Parliament, two taboo words, confiscation,... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's what nobody's talking about. Is there any information about how much was stolen by Croatian farmers of agricultural land, millions of hectares, nobody talks about it, left or right, and that thousands of people live in other people's apartments have never been brought back, it is silenced. What are we gonna do about it? I don't even know if she heard this young lady down there what I'm telling her down there, she... discuss lunch with a young colleague [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, these are key questions for the Justice Department. ... [[Intruder Reiner: I ask you a little quieter colleagues and colleagues that colleague Glasnović can say what he wants.]] Mr. Lucic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when are we going to get out of this post-Communist confusion on the issue of justice? We're still in business... Things, when are we gonna break that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A knot and start removing all these obstacles to investment and investment? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33166	Thank you. The next debate will be her distinguished representative, Rechimir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33167	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be very brief. Namely, I think this bill on amendments and additions to the law So let me repeat, I think this amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Exemption is a certain fee for a good basis for preparing the final draft law in the second reading. [[Intruder Reiner: My colleagues and colleagues, please allow your colleague Varda to say what he wants to say.]] I agree with colleagues who have carried out a series of remarks concerning the character of the temporary solution, enrolment in land books, the deadline for appeal and delivery and complaints, especially citizens who are not physically present. However, because of the public, I have a need to point out the following. We keep talking about private ownership as a constitutional category as if it were indeed 100% untouchable. However, I must say that the government, therefore public authority, states, when it determines the unequivocal public interest has the right to go into the expropriation, especially when it is done to infrastructure facilities such as roads, public roads, rail infrastructure or water-economic infrastructure. However, I believe that in this proposal, the amendment and the addition of the law is also particularly in Article 6 which amends Article 27, which is provided to the market price owner or fair compensation and its participation in the selection of evaluators. When we talk about the protection of ownership in these cases of expropriation, it is, in most cases, not the protection of ownership, but the protection of compensation for that property. And if you'll allow me, we have one form of property protection that we're not talking about right now. When the local community, including the state, determines its plans for the purpose of a particular land, it is private land, we are not talking about a period within which the community is obliged to rule out the owner. So, it's his duty to pay the fee. It can take decades and it's been going on for decades, and that's exactly what the constitutional category of ownership is, especially when it's determined to be a green area, then there's actually no exorcism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33168	My colleagues and colleagues, please allow your colleague Varda to say what she wants. You all had a chance to talk, give him a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33169	Well, I'm trying to get used to it, but apparently I'm not. So when we talk about the constitutional category of property protection, then we should talk about protecting ownership, private ownership when we determine by means of spatial plans or general urban plans the purpose of land, private land, rather than exorcising. And that's a big problem. And in that part, Madam Secretary of State, I think that the amendments and additions to the Law on Expropriation should set a deadline within which state, the local community is obliged to rule out the owner of private land on which the land has been designated by the construction of certain infrastructures. In any case, I accept this proposal to amend and supplement the law in the first reading, and I hope that the ministry will prepare the final text of the law in accordance with these remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33170	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable Agent Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33171	I'd like to say that expropriation as a final act must be an extraordinary measure, because it penetrates the rights of ownership. I would like to point this out to all the victims of expropriation during the communist rule period who have never received adequate compensation, i.e. adequate compensation for the seized property, but by discriminating the state's decision to return only to the Catholic Church taken away property, and all other citizens are ignored by bringing them into an unequal position by the fact that the Catholic Church has the most property in the world anyway. It is the richest institution, and many citizens would benefit from their grandfather's return, or compensation for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33172	Thank you. Comrade Pernar, of course, here in Parliament, we can speak many things and lies and so on. What you just said isn't true. That's just not true. The Croatian state has damaged a good part of the people, not too fair. Much less than the communist government has taken away from them... Don't yell from the scene. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Comrade Pernar, I give you a warning. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33173	My colleague Pernar, in only one small part, I agree with your replica that a private property exposure should be an exception and it is, in fact, an exception only when an unequivocal public interest is established. With this other part, most of your replica absolutely disagree. Because the fact is that the laws that this state has passed speak quite the opposite, they say, that according to the Law on the return of property was taken away during the South-Communist rule, everyone could have filed a claim within the legal time limit for the return of property and it was made and returned. So, I think when you talk to the public, we should still take care of the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33174	Thank you. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33175	Mr. Vice President, should we take the vote maybe we should continue?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33176	No, no. We'll finish the debate. No, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33177	All right, whatever you say. Thank you very much. It's an extraordinary honor to speak in front of a crowded house. This is rarely happening, and thank you all very much for coming to listen to my debate, and it will be like this, it will be 10 minutes, and I will try to sublime what we've been discussing here today since the morning, and it is about the desire that the Law on empowerment and the determination of compensation will be as good as possible, to speed up, to make investments faster. Although I am convinced that as good as the law is, we will always have problems with extradition and there will be those who will not be satisfied with it, or those who sell the price are always too low. The state when buying would like to buy probably at a cheaper rate than when it comes to specific cases we've witnessed over the past few years, but hopefully it won't be in the future. What is already pointed out in the debate, and I would like to say once again that we must not be in a position to compensate for the one we control in any way other than fair and generally cash compensation. If you can, Mr. President, give the Vice President a little bell. It means that it's being compensated justly and that it's usually by means of money. [[Intruder Reiner: No effect.]] Because when we have an exceptional situation of power, it compensates for another relevant property, as a rule, it's two cases. One is at the expense of a person who is ruling what shouldn't be and a colleague named Grbin said it was against the constitution and that it should not stand in the law. And the second is to rule out the damage to the state, and that could be the case, or the damage to the local unit, to the city. For example, in the city of Zagreb, we had a lot of cases of land swapping between the person and the city or the physical person or the company and the city, where some of the land in the less attractive locations in Sesvetama was estimated below the market price, and attractive land in the city was estimated, these were in poor locations above estimated, and attractive land was estimated below the price. So I can justifiably ask myself when a natural person or a company agrees to such a type of replacement, whether it's a favor for a company or a natural person, because if we allow this possibility to replace me, I think we'll have jobs with possible corruption, such as in Zagreb, where, for example, the mayor gave up such jobs after warning of such situations. We all remember those students who founded the company and who tried to replace a less valuable country with a more valuable land in the city center. So if it's possible until the second reading, I'd be happy and I believe it would be much fairer to leave the only possibility of cash compensation to the one who's being ruled out. On the other hand, I also support this debate and the name of the HDZ Representatives Club when it comes to temporary enforcement that these things should be regulated because when the proceedings take place, when someone is entered. Can you please really make a noise? It doesn't matter which side, it matters if it's noise. [[Subject Petrov: I warn parliamentary representatives mostly to the left to sit.]] So when we talk about temporary extradition since the process of enrolment of the one who has carried out the empowerment is absolutely not the reason for making such a law, because here I can give you an example where a very successful project in the city of Zagreb near Velesajm spent where the one who used eu funds, and this is not at all the country's owner of land but has arranged 100 years of use from the city of Zagreb and built a modern congress centre and hotel, and this is what I said about the facility at the end of Zagreb's Velesajima worth 30 million kuna. So it is much more important to regulate relations legally between those whose country is and not necessarily to own someone if they use European funds. So until the second reading we have time, it would be good to adopt these particular remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33178	I ask the esteemed MPs to refrain from internal debates while the hearing is being held.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33179	Thank you very much. I would like the promoter to take advantage of all these proposals that we have made here, I think that the law can be developed and that, in the second reading, it can be mutually uniformly supported because it is in everyone's interest that the project process is especially when it comes to infrastructure, for example, when it comes to the railway line from Zagreb to Dugi Selo, Križevci and still where over a million and a half squares are solved in this way. And I hope that the state, or I'm sure that the state has done the procedure under the law, maybe it wasn't fast enough, maybe once people were unhappy with the price they got, but we certainly need such projects infrastructureally in Croatia, especially when they're funded by EU funds. Thank you very much for your time. I have to admit, it's much more pleasant to say that the assembly is half empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33180	Representative Branimir Bunjac called for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33181	Thank you very much. Agent Maras. You said that you would now speak in front of the full assembly, that you were honored with it, but now you end up with a note that it's much nicer to speak in front of a half-empty chamber, and that's because basically the representatives don't care what you have to say. They're interested, they've come here now two-thirds of them in three minutes to twelve. It's the way they make their salary from 15 to 20 thousand kuna, until just before they were at coffee and lunch, now they've come to vote 15 minutes and go home. It is a shame for this House that they neither know what they are voting for nor know what you are saying, nor will they be replicating you. They take huge wages, and this work doesn't deserve 15, not 20, but three thousand kunas don't deserve it, that minimumer doesn't deserve it, and I warn that all of you who were in the European Parliament at any session, you could see that the sessions there are so full all the time and that maybe four, five people are missing. And the problem is that here we have Parliament of obedients, spinelesss who follow the orders of their party heads, and that is unfortunately democracy in Croatia. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33182	Representative Branimir Bunjac, please, Agent Branimir Bunjac, I would ask parliamentary representatives to refrain from commenting. Representative Branimir Bunjac I let you expose what you wanted to expose to the replica because you referred to the final sentence of the presentation of Representative Maras and that is correct for me and that is the rule. Other MPs should be careful what they say during their presentation, but I ask you not to insult other parliamentary representatives, you have no right to do so. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33183	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, as for your replica and the president's remarks, I agree with her, there is no need to generalise. Let's just say I like to expose myself in front of a full house. I really feel positive energy and I see the interest of some MPs such as my colleague Milinović, here's how he looks at me carefully or fellow Kovac and I know they're interested in what I'm going to say. Of course some MPs have a little less attention and are simply in their thoughts, in a campaign, such as Mr. Bulj or Mr. Grumoja, they are thinking down already have certain activities and I understand that. What I would like to ask may be in the future, if we agree that the vote is at 12, it is really very difficult to discuss when such a murmur is in the assembly to stop and to continue the debate more normally afterwards. So that's what my application would be, and not you two I commended because I see you're concerned about the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33184	I'd like to beg, Mr. Maras, representative of Gordan Maras, please, don't replicate within your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33185	I'm just asking you to let her answer next time and then argue normally. Here's my request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33186	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 238 was broken because the parliamentary representative did not speak on the subject, he mentioned me and my colleague, Grmoy, in a context outside the topic. It is known how much I am in the Assembly and how much I am in the Assembly, it is easily verifiable and how much I and my colleague Grumoja report, and you do not need to worry about the election results,... My colleague, Mr. President, you did not interrupt Maras, your colleague's representative, as he spoke of me and my colleague, Grumoja. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because he expressed concern about the election results of me and my colleagues, Grumoje, and here I invite him to go to the local elections in Zagreb if he has the strength. [[/Adversary President: Representative Bulj, I have warned, Representative Bulj, thank you. You're welcome to sit down, MP Bulj, I warned.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33188	I warned counsel Maras, I warned counsel Maras. Representative Maras, come in. Representative Bulj and representative of the Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33189	If I were from Dubrovnik-Neretva and Split-Dalmatia right now, I would accept the candidacy against you two, I can't lose.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33190	Representative Maras, you've raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please state by which article.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33191	238. I answered. Wow, now you're asking the first item, you haven't asked anyone yet. [[President: Exactly which article of Article 238?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33192	Thank you very much. You may have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33193	No, no, wait, give me the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33194	Representative Maras, you may sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33195	200... just a little bit, can I tell you? 238, 238, paragraph 1, 2, 3. [[President: No, you can't.]] Article 3
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33196	Representative Maras, you should have prepared this when you were reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can sit down. [[Attack Maras: 238rd paragraph 3.]] Please don't make me go with a warning. You can sit down, you could prepare it...... The moment you reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Maras: The speaker does not understand.]] The next replica is from counsel Steve Culei. [[So this is amazing.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33197	Your Honor, I will remain on the subject although I see that no one is up to this topic anymore, but I will answer to Mr., a colleague of our Maras for his exposure. He says this, the authority for favoring a company or a natural person as an example of honesty, I will read you the news HRT.hr. He says so, the title, so the exorcism is due to the wind power plant Knin. The wind power plant is the third part where the state honors whether or not... pay the citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The slowness of the state administration has been a national trademark for years, but in the story of investing the wind power plant in Knin, it was a miracle. Three years ago, before Christmas, civil servants worked long into the night just to get the project going. Energy approval is a key document for wind power plant business, issued within 48 hours. And it would all be like in a fairy tale if the officials hadn't burdened the state with 200 to 300 million kunas of unnecessary obligations on the basis of very questionable documentation. Further in the text, the interior documents of the economy mention pressures from the cabinets of the minister that the project related to the CEMP company is soon being resolved. CEMP director Ivan Šimić confirms daily lobbying and I do not know what they were doing internally, I only know that I pressured both the chief of staff and the assistant minister and Minister Ivan Vrdoljak himself. I put pressure on everything, I do not deny it, Simic said on HRT. The CEO of the CEMP company that connected with Zoran Milanovic's brother does not hide that he called every day in line. So much for honesty, so much for favoring, so much for detachment of land and property and everything. And let's not talk about when you plan the route of any road or that wind power plant to buy land like in cowboy times, in those movies where they're even taken away in various ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33198	Thank you. Time's up. The answer to the replica, Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33199	Thank you very much. You're a fellow Bull. Well, it was about wind power plants, so I thought it was Bull. [[Intruder: Culey.]] You just said something, you didn't say the source first, you read the paper, I don't know if it's from any media, any investigation or anything. So you said something that's no wonder the investor called and hurried the administration. So that's basically the problem in Croatia what the administration does sometimes slowly. And I don't see a problem that an investor who wants to realise his investment, who has resources, a project, etc., that he's interested in it, that he's calling both the ministry and the city and the municipality to help himself. The problem is what he has to call, that's the problem, Mr. Culey. What you said but not on the side of which you suggest that there is some potential corrupt work but... Well, I guess not, because you as a conscientious citizen would probably run to the police first and report corruption. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Since you didn't do it, I'm guessing it's not about corruption. It's just that probably someone couldn't realize their project because of what happened. the administration's silences and the job assignments. And that's what, I'm sure you want to change in Croatia too, that people don't have to call the ministries, but that the ministries are calling them to invest and do the work they're paid for, and I hope that our administration is doing better and better every day. And on this side, I am convinced that at the local level in the event of Mr Bulj's victory in the Split-Dalmatia County, finally HDZ and that slow administration there will work because Bulj will give them additional energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33200	Representative Bulj, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33201	The President-in-Office, Article 238 again speaks of an issue that is not subject to discussion. Here I wasn't the subject of debate or replica. It is obviously neither the Split-Dalmatia County but apparently a colleague Maras often or nonstop or constantly mentions my last name so I don't know what kind of obsession he has and what it is about. Maybe he could answer now. But otherwise, Mr. President, a constant speech, i.e. The constant appointment of me personally and colleagues of Grmoje obviously around the election Apparently, colleague Maras doesn't have the strength to go to local elections in his midst, so he's obsessed with it. [[/Intruder President: Representative Bulj, I understand. Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33202	Before you answer, I agree with you, Representative Bulj, you reacted before I reacted because you raised the batting bat of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Maras, you do not have the right to respond when replying to a replica to use some other MPs and refer to other topics. And what I would really like to ask you to hurt the Rules of Procedure is not an institute that can replace you with replicas that do not stick to the subject. And what I'd like to ask in my heart before you answer for the violation of the Rules of Procedure you've raised. Be aware that all of you, as assembly representatives, are personally guarding, raising or destroying the integrity of this institution towards all citizens who are watching us right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33203	Thank you very much. Here's to being precise and to stick strictly to what you said. So Mr. Bulj injured Rule 238, paragraph 2, which he called on to say, "Speak without prior approval of the chairman." So Mr. Bulj called on that provision of the Rules of Procedure that I broke and you gave me your word, so I spoke with your approval. So Mr. Bully either doesn't know the Rules of Procedure or he just hasn't prepared himself for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33205	Thank you, Mr. President. You have injured Rules of Procedure of Article 239 because you have just said that you agree with your colleague Bulja, meaning and colleague Bulj said that Article 238 was injured and Article 239 said that he would chair and that he was injured by Mr Maras. And Article 239 states that the presidents will give a warning to those who do not stick to Article 238. Since you did not warn your colleague Maras, you injured Article 239. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33206	Thank you. I agree with that, and I also agree and thank you for just supporting me in being sharper. I felt that we as adults and those who are aware of our duties should not give warning. But here's a thank you. I will soon and begin to abide by it, so you will have warnings. If we came to that level, I would follow Article 239 very strictly. Representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33207	The Honorable President, therefore, is on the trail of this former advice, and I believe that Mr. Comrade Maras has demeaned you, through you and all of us. I don't know why you let him do the escapade. and you thus violate Article 238, thus demeaning and insulting the President or other MPs. [[Intruder President: Mr. Lackovic.]] You have to punish him. I'm asking you to punish him, because he's now being placed as someone above us, and you're just letting him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-10-0.u33208	Mr. Lackovic, next moment, the next time you request a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask you first to specify an article and item. I hereby conclude the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation, first reading, P.Z. No. 101. The next item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Alignment and Determination of Compensation, First Reading, P.Z. No. 101. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law.’. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the vote is 88 for, 30 abstentions and four votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
