ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38563	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and Power Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes for the incident that took place on the island of Brac, during which 12 people are arrested, including minors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38564	Okay. Any more requests for a break? ... Warming, good, good. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleague, Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38565	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38566	Okay. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38567	Thank you, Mr. President. For the same reason I seek a break on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38568	Okay, we've got three breaks, so at 9.45 we'll proceed. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first club to speak Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA, a colleague of Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38570	Thank you, well-respected president, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, last week we witnessed an incident on the island of Brač where a group of junior fans verbally attacked the State Secretary for Sports, followed by mass arrests and listening, a total of 12 people were arrested, including two minors. Everything was made, very quickly, pronto, even judgments were made quickly, rarely seen in the Croatian judiciary. What should be said at the outset that the Living Wall condemns any violence, not only physically but also verbally, and all those who have insulted the Secretary of State for Sports deserve judgment in any case. That's not the way to talk to anyone, so it's not the way to talk to civil servants. We agree that repression is sometimes necessary but in this case it solves the consequences, not the causes. Namely, the real cause of this incident is the monopolitical influence of several individuals who have been given the right to work in football and sports whatever they want, thanks to the support of political structures. Sports, and football in particular, were once the pride of Croatia, we had great clubs, great players who played big games, we all remember the victory of Rijeka against Real Madrid, the semifinal of the UEFA Cup of Hajduk, an excellent performance by Dinam in the Champions League, third place of the Croatian team at the World Cup. Today we have club leaders and the alliance itself known for tax evasion, which is measured by tens of millions of kunas, which furniture the game to win at bookshops, people who are mildly said to be moving in a suspicious society and who are prodigal and insulting everyone around them at the level of the coachmen, are namely individuals who publicly curse mothers to others, call journalists trashes, monsters, quitters, prostitutes who constantly threaten with physical attacks, act alike, and even worse than so-called. A hooligan from Bratch. Unlike sometimes, Croatian clubs have become a firing can, which doesn't stick a single goal in the Champions League, let alone beat someone, moreover, one of our clubs has been named the worst club in the history of the league. Even the team became the property of individuals who decide who will be the menu, who will play, what tactics will be, and the consequences of such interference we could see last night in Reykjavik. All this is due to the fact that these same individuals have prominent roles at the parties' meetings, they celebrate birthdays, they have media protection, but also budget money at their disposal. So, individuals who have done enormous damage to the reputation of Croatian sport in general, have policy protection and so long as this is not resolved, the incidents we have seen in the past years at matches and on the waterfronts will become more frequent. The responsible persons should be arrested before they are arrested by minors, thrown out of the hooligan dispute among adults and fully aware persons. I am sure that if the criteria were even, and the rights equal for all, that not only would the incidents stop, but Croatian football would generally return to the days of old glory in a few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38571	The second club is the SDP and counterpart club Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38572	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. This is about unequal criteria of action. I'm going to agree with my colleague Bunjec, respect the law absolutely, not insult anyone, whether it's the secretary of state or Parliament or anyone else. This is about a precedent that in some way shows how, I believe, in the future we should treat anyone who, any citizen, any of the meanings of our man, will be treated in the same way, experience that in 48 hours everything will be settled, the police will do the job, the courts will bring judgments, prison sentences, etc. Some others don't have such a privilege, they have to go to court, they have to pay lawyers, they've been fighting privately for years, they're looking for real protection for reasons that of course, they're not in a position to get this kind of thing now I'm going to say, cover or protection by a repressive apparatus. What we at the SDP club don't accept, which is that there's a huge difference exactly because of the belongings of a particular political structure. You can't protect each other anymore, but someone else, so the same criteria must be for everyone. I sent a letter to the Minister of the Interior this morning on behalf of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I asked for an indication, not only of this case, because it is always fair to get complete information about what happened, but it must also say that the situation in which Mr. Culej, who would gladly insult you here in the Croatian Parliament, should have the same criterion, and that means when we have come to the situation that you can experience it in this assembly, that you cannot speak freely, and that someone will take the right to insult you and that it will not get absolutely any sanctions. But that's good because Parliament is a place where you can speak freely, where nothing will happen to you...... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38573	.../Intruder President: Please, colleague Culey, let my colleague Ostojić finish, then you can answer the word./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38574	I'm the one who asked for the report. I think that's the basis for the conversation. This also indicates that it is necessary to define through the Law on Public Order and Peace the exact situation in which it is handled, and practice must be uniformly uniformly both police and judicial. There is no one for the same situation to experience that nothing happens to him, and some who are obviously privileged, especially when defending interested groups are experiencing a spotless sentence within a few hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38575	And the third debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38576	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues of the HDZ Club have reported for this debate to take advantage of the opportunity to condemn any verbal attack on anyone he has been particularly involved in this matter on a woman's person and especially if it is such a primitive way of expressing his opinion. The sadder part is that the attack was actually directed at a person who defended the honour of the Republic of Croatia in a sports way, at sports courts, completely inadmissible and should be made clear. No cause tampering. If we are just talking about the causes, if we want to see exactly where the causes are some time incidents in society, look at colleagues and colleagues footage of the debate in the Croatian Parliament as we speak here in this House, in which some times the representatives of each other honor each other under quotes of course. There's a cause, dear gentlemen, between us. We are elected representatives of this society and we determine our public discourses. And if we want to look for the causes of this inadmissible act first analyze each of you individually or each of you individually steps into the Croatian Assembly. On the other hand, I cannot be surprised that we are here criticising the promptity of the Croatian police's reaction. That's great! It is great that the Croatian police responded quickly to the application and removed any suspicion. I wish that while the minister was a respected colleague Ostojic that was done so when they drew more Nazi symbols on the Po human lawn that brought much more damage to Croatia. That's how it's supposed to be done all the time. And this example should be used to know how to behave or not to act. I wouldn't go into the details of the number of people. I believe the police did everything according to the rules and according to their rules of profession. We are sure that everything will happen in the best way and by the rules, and in the causes of what sometimes happens in Croatian sport, we can always point out Janica Kostelic as a positive example of Croatian sport. A sports career without a stain. The fact that we're going to relativize turns out today by colleagues who favor human rights, women's rights and everyone else in society is unacceptable, inadmissible. The HDZ Club condemns any kind of violence either verbally, physically or specifically condemns any attempts of political pressure on the police that it does not do its job. And accordingly, he appealed to all MPs and MPs to give an example in this assembly that public polemics can be conducted and to express their disagreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38577	Thank you. We're moving on to the agenda now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38603	A distinguished representative of Gordana Maras came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38604	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates' club is looking for a 10-minute break to point to certain issues related to Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38605	Okay. Then I'll see you at 12.15 minutes. MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS CONTINUATION OF THE SESSION AT 12.15 HOURS Dear many colleagues and colleagues, we will now proceed after the break and I will ask that on behalf of the SDP Club speak the esteemed representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the few, the few... We need to determine when they happen, in a process that is not transparent, it is about Agrokor, or the government of the Republic of Croatia's activities regarding Agrokor, and the potential risks that the company will later leave to all taxpayers in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Today and yesterday we witnessed a statement by Mr. Ramljak and Mrs. Dalic, though the two legs agree on how much this will be a new task, today Mrs. Dalic talks about 480m euros, yesterday Mr. Ramljak talks about 530m euros but what they say, they say the same thing, that all the risk of this task is not only falling on the company, but also falling on Croatian taxpayers. What's not good is that we're promoting so-called. Roll up the duties we think in the SDP that should have been inaugurated and processed and by the Agrokor Act, or Lex Agrokor, which is not, and we'll have a problem with potential lawsuits, we don't think it's good that we've stimulated certain risk funds that have already bought Agrokor's debts by 30. 40% of the nominal value, thus entering the Religious Council to now stimulate them to give more money to swear for the kuna as Mr Ramljak and Mrs Dalic said, pay their old debts as a priority, and those new ones who will give, means the money they will give, will be recognised as a priority in future payments. So we made it possible, or not us, to make it possible for the HDZ, or the Republic of Croatia, that the venture capital fund that already has these experiences with some countries like Greece, and they did not come by chance, we have made it possible here, or I will once again correct myself, Mr Plenkovic, Mrs Dalic and HDZ have made it possible for people to invest 200, 300 million euros and that in a year and a half of how long this extraordinary administration will take to earn 60% of the contribution to their stake and unless Agrokor will be able to pay off, it will pay off by the law behind Agrokor as the one that guarantees that it will all be expensive. And a very clear message, we in the SDP don't agree to this, and therefore we ask once again, here from this pay phone to rule, that HDZ, President of the Parliament Jandrokovic, has already finally put a request for an investigative commission on the agenda, to discuss this, that the commission starts to deal with Agrokor, and that citizens get answers. Why are you hiding the gentlemen's information from the Croatian public? Which is why we cannot ask Mrs. Dalic, Mr. Ramljak, who is interested in Croatian citizens that someone earns at 300m euros 60% in one and a half years, and that on the other hand what we do not want and will not allow, Croatian workers are fired. Yesterday was Mr. Ramljak's announcement that the consum would begin firing workers. When? Before the beginning or during the tourist season. So this is a very clear message that the Croatian Government is sending today, the foreigners, the venture capital funds will earn 100m euros, and Croatian workers will not allow it, but we must do so here again and call on the President of the Assembly and you from the HDZ to stop hiding it, to call on an investigative committee, to see how this is done in the developed democracies of the world where, for example, when there is such an initiative in the United States or Parliament, it is resolved within a few days, and then both the President of the United States and the Head of Secret Services, all respond to the commission and give answers to certain questions. Unfortunately, these standards in Croatia are not valid, but we will point them out and ask HDZ to behave as it is in the interests of the Croatian public. Unfortunately, you've all come down to supporting foreign interests, foreign capital, foreign funds, and our people from Konzum should unfortunately scream at you on the street, we can't let that happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u38608	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39981	As I said - Final bill on amendments to the Hunting Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 87. The draft law shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day You received the motion for an act by dispatching the Parliament. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Ministry of Agriculture, State Secretary Marija Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39982	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed parliamentary representatives, esteemed parliamentary representatives. The adoption of amendments and additions to the Hunting Law is necessary in order to comply with EU legal regulations or Directive 147/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conservation of wild birds. In this regard, the current Hunting Act did not require a provision on the conservation of wild birds and the aforementioned Directive, and therefore the European Commission informed the Republic of Croatia through the EU pilot system in March 2015 that it had assessed the quality of the transfer as insufficient. Following the closure of the EU pilot of cases on its own initiative, the European Commission opened an infringement of EU law procedure in 2016. Amendments and additions to the Hunting Act shall avoid day-to-day procedures for infringement of EU law, in such a way as to prohibit the hunting of feathered game during the raising of cubs or during different stages of reproduction, and shall prohibit the hunting of migratory species during the breeding period or during their return to the areas where the young are raised. In addition, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, dated 15 December 2016, abolished paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 83 of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013. The law on hunting has shown the need to comply with the applicable law in the part where the damage the gamer can inflict on the people or property on the land on which the hunting ground is spread, which mainly relates to the damage to agricultural crops paid to land users and also to traffic damages. Infringement provisions relating to the amendment and addition of this law are also harmonised. Following this, we point out that the law primarily has a meaning for the protection and conservation of birds, especially migratory species, and for the treatment of the damages caused by game, whether it is a game that lives constantly in a particular game or game that occasionally resides in a hunting ground. Finally, we would like to introduce you to the fact that the whole new Hunting Law is planned in the fourth quarter to bring among other things a certain newspaper in terms of removing administrative barriers, bureaucratic and administrative burdens, thus affecting the improvement of the business climate and investment. Also, the same law will normably supplement provisions relating to hunting and game management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39983	This is the presentation of State Secretary Maria Vuckovic, causing three replicas. The first is Honorable colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39984	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, so no one is disputed in this part of the text of the law, which is the prescription of actually the European Regulation, which has been regulated by the rules so far, but here, they want it to be regulated legally. It's okay. But what worries is exactly what you mentioned, and that's a shame of savages. Therefore, according to the Constitutional Court's ruling, the Constitutional Court has taken the view that game is good of interest to the Republic of Croatia, and is not a general good, but a natural wealth. So, as part of the Hunting Act, the natural wealth to which the special administrative regime applies, which is why the gamer is the object of the hunt belonging to the public government, and the government transfers it through concession or lease to the poachers. However, we are experiencing a problem, where our poachers, who are a wave of hunting societies, simply cannot finance these damages anymore. This is about traffic damage. It is not only damage to the transport of private damage that a gamer can do, especially a game that does not live in a hunting grounds, which does not have a hunting economic basis that enjoys a particular hunting society or another poacher. For this reason, I do not think it is a good idea to throw out this item, i.e. to throw out the concept of migration savages or, gamers who do not live constantly in the hunting grounds, because it will generate additional costs for poachers, in this case, hunting societies that have been crying out to solve this problem for a long time. Last night I had a chance to speak to several representatives of hunting societies from various parts of Slavonia. Many are about to close, or shut down, because of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39985	Thank you. Answer to the replica State Secretary Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39986	Thank you very much. I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Hajdovic, for asking. Therefore, this is about amendments to Article 4 of Law 2, 52, 83, 97, which are in line with, or eliminates, infringements of European law in respect of the application of the Birds Conservation Directive, and confirms the Constitutional Court’s ruling that the paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Law have been abolished. The Ministry of Agriculture is fully aware of many numerous remarks, and so will those you have spoken about and will all try to install them, i.e. they will be seriously considered when making a whole new law and I am reporting to you on this subject, although the law is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2017, that it is already in the process of electronic consultation at the end of this week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39987	Thank you. Second Replicator Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39988	Thank you very much, President. So this amendment to the law, i.e. The EU Directive prohibits the killing of hairy and feathered game as it cultivates its cubs. That's what logic itself was meant to be for hunters, that it should be controlled by nature, not that we don't literally have game anymore in nature in some parts, because simply either the concessionaries or those who destroyed the bloodthirsty so savage that it literally doesn't exist. So this Directive should, in essence, apply. It's a healthy logic, he says, that he who cultivates game, who breeds his cubs, who only raises her so she shouldn't be killed. It's an ecocid if someone kills without this law and this application. This is why the situation is the way it is, mainly in areas where numerous private concessions have been awarded, in areas where we no longer have savages, and real hunters who are engaged in hunting and who invest in game, which is the least beneficial food, therefore this application should already be in reality on the ground. Which is why it's not, I don't know. Kill an animal that has cubs, it's a first-degree ecocid, first-row. That is why the question, how are you going to do it, is mainly about poaching and all these procedures in nature and our hunting grounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39989	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39990	Thank you very much to Mr. Bull's esteemed representative. According to the current rules, the Ministry of Agriculture has already issued a ban on hunting such feathered game in the course of different stages of reproduction and while raising cubs and migrant savages, however, the European Commission has assessed that this is not enough and that it is necessary to make an exact entry into the law, which is why it has initiated a violation of European law. It was certainly forbidden in Croatia, but after the pilot's procedure was initiated we had to install it in a more urgent procedure in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39991	Thank you. Third replica, distinguished counterpart Glasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39992	If it depends mostly on the protection of game, etc. I wonder what the real situation on the ground is is this symptomatic for the Croatian judiciary, the whole system where we have directives from the EU hundreds of directives are legally prescribed every year, what is the application on the ground? I wonder, for example. Now I've been a recent area... Topusco-Glin and what do we see? We see the extraction of oak forests, massacred savages. What statistics do you have to convince me that this will work on the ground? Here are some short questions, until you speak to the young gentleman there. What are the standards for foreign concessions and for Croats, are the same standards on these hunting grounds? How many countries register every year from these concessions for hunting grounds? Will this be done again, what is being done nonstop, for a permit for weapons, hunting weapons in that directive to be copied and other matters concerning national security? Well, there's been a massacre on Dinara's lynx. How many convictions do you have for Lake Vrana, how many times has this been burned? It will again be just a dead letter on paper, if there is no mechanism to implement it. That's scary. At the same time you have 40,000 more hunters, you can't work like this. What is true collaboration with the environment of hunting society and, say, the Ministry of Defense? These people are eyes and ears in the field. And they can easily join a passive reserve to preserve the integrity of the Croatian state and internal security, these are these short issues. Concessions, these passive reserves and this second how much money is being cashed up there and how much standards are for foreigners for concessions and what they are for Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39993	Thank you. The reply to the reply to the State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39994	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Glasnović, for the questions asked. So the concession can only be obtained by a legal person registered in the Republic of Croatia. As far as other issues are concerned, the law sets out in detail the infringement provisions, the work, as well as the hunting inspection. However, as I have said, questions are numerous, and they are received by the Ministry of Agriculture, so we have initiated a brand-new Hunting Act that goes into electronic debate this week and are all invited to make useful suggestions and remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39995	Thank you very much. Please don't just win, you'll have opportunities through the discussion further and through the replicas intervene. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. What? Reporters of the board, that as vice-president, we have no committee presidents but Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Col. Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39996	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament held at the 16th session held on 7 June 2017 the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hunting Act submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act of 4 May 2017. The Agriculture Committee shall be in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held the debate under that proposal of the law as the home working body. The opening argument was expressed by the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, noting that the proposal for a law of Directive 92/43/EEC and 2009/147/EC transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and, in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, extended the period of prohibition of hunting for feathered game in all stages of breeding, rearing of young children or during breeding stages, and during their return to areas where young children are raised. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Hunting law. The proposed law also amends the infringement provisions in accordance with the proposed extension of the hunting ban period. The debate drew attention to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on hunting and the articles cited above ceased to apply on 15 December 2016. Contentfully looking at those items, they regulated the responsibility of hunting authorities for the damage committed by a gamer who does not live in the hunting grounds all the time. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Hunting Act proposes, with the Final Proposal of the Law, to regulate the compensation of the hunting authorisation for game damage regardless of whether you are a damage to the game that lives on a permanent basis or those who do not live on a hunting ground and which, in the opinion of the Committee members, is contrary to the reasoning of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The applicant's representative pointed out that the e-consultation procedure will soon send a new proposal for a Hunting Act and that this issue will be led to a broader debate in the adoption of a new Hunting Act. After the debate was held, most of the votes 5 votes in favour and 4 against the Croatian Assembly decided to propose the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hunting Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39997	Thank you. The vice-president of the Committee on Legislatives, Col. Vlaovic, said he would not speak, and then after that, we go to debates in clubs. And the first club is SDP's Club of Representatives and counterpart Hajdukovic again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39998	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, colleagues and colleagues, you've heard this law would be more or less technical if it weren't for this disputed part, which is compensation borne by an authorized, or one who lords savages in a particular area or in a hunting grounds. According to the law that was in force, the poachers, which are by the wave of hunting societies, although there are others, therefore there are private ones, were responsible for the damage the savage has done. And it's not just traffic accidents, but I have to underline it once again, even though of course there is damage to the crops and the rest. So unless they prove, or prove that they have taken all measures to reduce this damage, that is, to keep the game in the area of the hunting grounds. As for migrant savages, or savages who were not constantly in the hunting grounds and for whom the poachers did not have the permission to exploit, they did not bear the damage. However, the provisions that are in the law before us now provide that the poachers will suffer damage caused by the gamer, regardless of whether it is on a hunting economic basis, or whether it is constantly inhabited in the hunting grounds. This is a deeper problem, and I agree that maybe we can't solve it just by the Hunting Law, by the fact that these are amendments and amendments to the law and it's announced that we're about to go to a whole new Hunting Act. I am very pleased to hear that, and I am calling once again from this stage, that is, the pay phone interested in the public, above all our hunters, the hunting societies to join in the public debate in order to ultimately have a more quality document. However, a legal vacuum is created, i.e. by passing this law, they will suffer damages, i.e. they will bear responsibility for the damage the savage commits until the new law is passed. So there is no retroactive application of the new law, they are already in a very difficult situation. I also said in my replica that I had the opportunity to talk to representatives of hunting societies from different parts of Croatia and last night but also before, and what they said was that actually the situation was very alarming. Why? It's just because of these damages. When we talk about hunting societies, they're not all powerful, they're not big, they don't have a lot of members, they don't have all the big hunting grounds that the masters and on the other hand are responsible for the damage. One small hunting company due to a few damages and due to several disputes leading to a shut-down, there are 15 members, there is no property, therefore also a damage, one who has suffered damage and the hunting society will in this case be losers because the hunting society has no funds to pay for, so the damage will be left without compensation and on the other hand we will lose one hunting society which, apart from having a social element, is extremely important for both the management and maintenance of our hunting grounds. They'd say, so you don't, you have insurance houses that ensure why a hunting society wouldn't be the subject of insurance. You know why? Because no one's going to provide them. He says there are new insurance houses that break through the market, which then offer insurance to hunting companies just to secure them from this kind of damage, but they usually offer it once and for all. Because the assessment that it is simply invaluable or that the prices offered to hunting societies for the second time are so large that the hunting societies cannot follow them, which points to the fact that the damage is great and that this problem is extremely large. Our poachers, therefore by the wave of the hunting society, are crying out to solve this problem. It goes so far to you ladies and gentlemen that many go to the lawsuits, so knowingly they go to the lawsuits, so they consciously go to the lawsuits, not to the damages settlement because they delay actually paying off, but they know that the dispute will eventually lose, so they will come to their payment, but they simply decide to do so in order to extend as long as possible, or delay the payment and try to raise the funds necessary for the compensation. Of course, there are also problems in court practice, courts, when they judge, according to the Law on Mandatory Relations, often do not call for the Hunting Law and I think the Constitutional Court's ruling is right here, as I said, that the Constitutional Court considers this position to be incorrect, so those we have represented until then, because the savage is good of the interests of the Republic, and it is not a common good, but a natural wealth, so in the framework of the Hunting Law, the gamer is a natural treasure which is worth a special administrative regime, which makes gamer a subject of the law of hunting belonging to one authority and the government transfers it through concession or lease to poachers. In the event that the proposer imposes damage on poachers and for the migrant game, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia considers that such an approach would constitute a restriction on the property rights of the poachers and such a procedure would not be legitimate from the aspect of the provision of the Constitution. Because what are we going to do, what kind of situation are we going to put our colleagues and colleagues in? We can vote this law tomorrow or Wednesday, but I know, or a colleague has already announced that he will also put a constitutional assessment into this law. Is that the problem we've solved? Absolutely not. So there's a vacuum, and we'll pass the new law when we bring it in. We can consider this, as vice-president of the Committee on Agriculture, I proposed that we submit an amendment to the law, that we return to the past situation, so that it was, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's ruling, as I see it, but the amendment did not pass as an amendment to the Committee, and I therefore transferred it as my own amendment. It is only that Article 3 is amended, so the amendment and addition of the law and reads: “In Article 83, paragraph 5, so far, becomes paragraph 3. ” Someone can say that it's a fire strike and it's on one side, it's a fire strike, but unfortunately the condition we have in the hunt, so our poachers and cry for fire measures because it's burning there. And in order to control the fire first, we need to put it more or less under control, or we need to approach fire measures, fire management. I'm afraid, at best, that we this law that will go into debate, so through two readings to bring it in by the end of the year, many hunting societies will not experience it by colleagues and colleagues. In the summer, in the fall, now what's left of spring, there'll be new damages, there'll be new costs for hunting societies, they just can't bring it up. Of course, there are exceptions, but I think that unfortunately I can count on the fingers of one hand. As far as the amendments we make to the law due to the European real gain, we have no problem. This, of course, should be supported, is more so if the European Commission asks us to do so and essentially changes nothing but certain provisions on poaching are now legal, or we raise them to a legal level. But what worries is exactly this. And that is why I call you to the responsibility of being responsible for our hunting authorities, according to our hunting societies, to bring this fire measure into the law, and to help our hunting authorities to pass a new law. I am sincerely looking forward to a new law and debate that will follow and I say, I would like to get as much involved as possible, that we have as many aspects as possible because the problems that hunting societies, for example in Dalmatia or Zagorje, Slavonia, are not generally the same because of the diversity of terrain and game, etc. Therefore, the SDP Representatives' Club is ready to support this legislative proposal if an amendment is adopted to address the problem of migrant savage damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u39999	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. We've got two replicas. First of all, he's a respected colleague of Habek's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40000	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, from your debate, is essentially to conclude what most of us here know, that these changes are actually as we say they are, can say holy guides. The biggest problem that comes to us in practice is the game. European practice is such that this section is always fenced into some basic insurance but unfortunately, this is not the case with us. Also, insurance policies for hunting companies which have been secured from the arrival of vehicles are extremely burdened, financially burdened, or those insurance companies do not want to provide or provide such a form of insurance at all. Also recently, hunting societies do not even want to go out on sight and do not want to take over the lost game. Now the question is how will this problem be solved and who will take over this lost savage when such an accident occurs?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40001	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40002	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Habek, here we can say that holy water is at least when we talk about this problem. And it's actually now to bring these changes that I propose by amendment it's actually just a drop in the rain. So that would be a little drop they'd throw on a big fire that unfortunately burns. These amendments and the Government had, i.e. the Proposer had reasons to bring it, so it applies primarily to this European dimension, there were other proposals for interventions in the Hunting Law, for example, the Club of HNS Representatives, Liberal Democrats and HSU asked for an amendment to Article 52(2) but they were not accepted precisely because they are therefore not subject to this law, and what is soon going on to be a comprehensive amendment of the law, i.e. a new law. But what you need to think about, fellow, there I agree with you is this. So we have discussed the committee as the parent body also talked about a possible add-on to the traffic insurance policy that would cover this damage. Some rough assessment is at least as the Ministry told us, that it would collect a shelf for 15 to 20 kuna and that the fund could be compensated for those who are killed in traffic. But as I said, it's not the only damage in traffic, although it may be the most visible, most expensive for hunting societies, there are damages on crops and on other good ones, so there are a whole series of problems. This would just, I say one drop would be thrown on fire, but one drop is better than not to throw anything or even suck oil.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40003	Thank you. Another replica of the esteemed colleague Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40004	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, I listened very carefully to what was said, so I'd say the key to the question of responsibility is here. So who's the one responsible for the damage that's going on? If you're making any concessions, then you have rights and obligations. In that part, you must also be responsible in terms of obligations. When we talk about whether the damage to the game car was caused on the road, and according to the interpretations of the roads is not part of the hunting ground, it's one problem. The crops inside the hunting grounds are another problem. I have to admit that I've spoken to a lot of competent authorities who are satisfied, not everyone is unhappy. In Croatia there are about 70,000 hunters, if a good memory serves me, somewhere around 1,000 hunting grounds, perhaps something above that, so those who care and who put themselves in the good master's manner in general, and so in and in concessioning, I don't think they have any particular problems. You've opened up a problem here that's really big, and that's a perjury problem, and then in phase B, what about judgments? When you have a poacher who, with the help of the police, found a poacher, you have in the judiciary the problems that have been ruled out, so today we can count them on the fingers of one hand, I would say, which are a little sharper and stronger, for what was done against the law. But since these are technical changes, and we've heard that we're going to have a new bill in the last quarter and that it's now going into debate this first part, then I suggest we try to solve the mass of these things in a new bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40005	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40006	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, I'm sorry I can conclude that I haven't spoken to the hunting authorities in the area of Slavonia from which they were satisfied. I'd like you to show me what these are, especially if we're talking about small hunting societies that I say play an economic role in nature conservation, so attention to the control of game numbers, etc. But they also have that social special in small areas that's very important. So, hunting society, fire company, etc. I agree with you that concessionaries must have some obligations, but the problem in this particular case is that you do not normally have a concession on migrant savages. So, if you have a hunting ground, for example, I'm caricing a rabbit and a pheasant now and a deer comes to your hunting grounds that causes damage or someone gets under the car. You answer for that deer. He says, the whole point of the law is if you're a concessionist, so a shot savage might be able to calm down the damage. Do you know how many rabbits you have to kill to pay one deer for what's usually total on the car? Very much, you can destroy the hunting grounds. So, the promoter tells us you can change the hunting base and bring in that game, but I'm afraid it takes too long and it's a complicated process and it costs the rest. So these are all the difficult circumstances our hunting societies face. There's some way to solve this problem we need to figure out. I hope we have that in our final bill of law. But I say now we have a fire, we have a fire, at least drop on it, let's not pour oil.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40007	Okay. The second club of MPs is the Croatian Democratic Community, the HDZ Representatives Club and distinguished counterpart Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40008	... State secretaries, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm going to change the opening part of my debate offered by the previous debate and the replicas I've heard. So I'm going to mention 183. As early as that year, Croatia in the Republic of Croatia existed a law regulating hunting in this area. A special consideration in this law was a step away from the defense of the beast, and about the killing of savages in the forbidden age. That's how it was written in that law in 1893. We are now talking about a regulation of the European Commission and the harmonisation of our regulatory legislation with that regulation, which is currently referring to a migrant savage in this area. We are also talking about the Constitutional Court's decision concerning the damages of savages and that is something in my opinion that can simply be very easily accepted in this part of these amendments to this law. What will certainly need to be done is a whole new reflection on these problems that we have had the opportunity to hear here in the previous first debate, and also today as regards the damages of savages. So we have two types of damage. We have damages that occur in agriculture, on land owned by private owners, owners who process it, crop damage, and we have what is done to hunting societies in the entire state is causing huge damage in financial terms. I personally find it unfair and unfair that hunting societies have always been the ones who have somehow suffered damage from the attack of savages on vehicles in huge amounts. I had the honour of being president of a hunting society in three terms. For almost a year in those 12 years of my presidency, it didn't happen that we didn't have a few court disputes, that we didn't have a few lawsuits, and that we didn't have several hundred thousand kunas of compensation for the fact that the savage ran into a vehicle. And what particularly bothered me in all these judgments was that sentence, which called for the Law on Mandatory Relations, and the savage under that law was a dangerous thing, and the responsibility for the encounter of those savages on vehicles, so these dangerous things were on the authority of hunting rights, or hunting societies, and regularly because such a first judgment was made, all further court proceedings went in this direction that the hunting societies were the ones who paid compensation. There we had great debates, the pressures were through the Croatian Hunting Union. In the end, it went into insurance against the damage caused by the attack of savages on vehicles. And at the first moment insurance houses offered very small premiums, they did not expect, or they did not know the problem of all that was happening throughout the Republic of Croatia, but after the second year of insurance when they saw the extent of these damages and how much the burden falls on hunting societies they did not double, but increased the premiums of insurance so that it became a huge financial burden on hunting societies. When we talk about hunting societies, the Hunting Law is arranged and so says hunting and game management, and management includes breeding, protection, hunting and the use of game and its parts. These jobs have an economic, tourist and recreational function again, as well as a function of protecting and preserving the biological and ecological balances of natural habitats of wildlife and wild fauna. So the Hunting Act itself was prescribed, and the same formulation was very similar in 1893 and 1925 when it was formed as such by the Croatian Hunting Union today. Therefore, in the continuous continuity of the law, hunting in the Republic of Croatia was regulated, it was maintained. And at the end of the day, there wouldn't be this many hunting bonuses, it wouldn't be this high-quality hunting grounds and so much wealth and diversity of fauna in our area. When someone is talking about killing, shooting, sniveling, or not knowing what kind of terms they're using, they're making a big mistake, or there's ignorance in this part of it that refers to hunting itself. Because the hunting economic fundamentals that are required to make hunting societies, or hunters, clearly define from sexual, age-old structures of gamers, species of game in a particular area, are entered into so much detail that exactly the quantities in kilograms of food that are being delivered, minerals, salt and everything else, so when someone talks about this hunting problem and when they think about hunting it is to put a gun on their shoulders and go into the woods and shoot and kill, fat, fat, fat, wrong. After all, it insults hundreds of thousands of hunters in our country. So these amendments and the additions of the law are very desirable, they're acceptable, they're nothing special or anything new, and in this part as such our club will accept them, I don't see any reason why any club won't accept them. But what is necessary, here is the secretary of state and your ministry, I am sure that in cooperation you will particularly point out, in cooperation with the Croatian Hunting Union because it brings together a really large number, including employees of the Croatian Forests and state hunting sites of experts who are very familiar with all this problem, that this problem is being encountered by savages on the vehicle I was talking about, and that in an explanation through the previous debate was here and pointed out to create a comprehensive novel of the Hunting Act, and then to bring other regulations into line with it. I don't see any reason, and I think the simplest model for this problem to be solved in the insurance of a vehicle is to pay for that amount of damage to the insurance of the accident of savages on vehicles. It would be according to my kind of calculations that we did maybe except for about 50 kuna, and in some ways it protects exactly in a certain part of the hunting society in whose area something like that happens, but in any case both the county roads and the Croatian roads, and most importantly the owner of the vehicle. Because what's going on? When you run into a vehicle, if there are no human casualties, it's just material damage, it takes hours for the police to come out of sight, you need a record of insight, then you have a whole series of peripetia. Transferring responsibility from the county administration to the road, to the hunting company. From the hunting company on the Croatian road or I don't know who. Then they get involved with lawyers who offer some services of their own, and then the Court takes the course and then it lasts for years. I think it's in the interest of even the owner of the vehicle in our regular vehicle security we have certain security that with a simple record of police insight we can collect that damage we had on the vehicle. Special story is crop damage, agriculture. What is definitely happening in space, especially in a part more famously, but it is also a particular problem down in the coast, since agriculture has become marginal in some way, that people are no longer engaged, that these areas are healed, forested, we have come to the point that both the island of Krk and the island of Cres in Crikvenica, Crikvenica, there is a huge increase in the number of black game, or wild pigs. There is also an increased number of black bear populations swimming on the island of Krk, and these are some things that will definitely need to be considered how to regulate them, in which way to stop this spread of game to places where they have never been in so many places, since the damages in that area are significant. Therefore, Article 83 provides for compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, in that second part of the European Commission's Directive, I think that these are such clear definitions, that they are not too much to talk about, what is most important is to go into preparation, but again, I am speaking in cooperation and with the profession with the Croatian Hunting Union, especially in this part of the brand-new regulation that will define these areas in the most honest way, because I am stressing the damage and financial obligations to hunting societies are enormous. Once again, there is a woman here in Croatia who I see ruling, talking about some kind of commercial money and a lot of money from hunting, which is why I'm going to say a few words about it. That's definitely not true. The fact is that many other branches benefit from this part of hunting because then there are also the filling of tourist facilities, there is also the movement of foreign citizens outside the season on our premises, the use of hunting grounds, the paying of hunting societies. However, all that money is being re-loaded either through a state budget through the lease of the hunting grounds or into county budgets through the lease of county hunting grounds, and the remaining funds are being paid by every member of the hunting society through a really large fee through the shooting fees, through members of the Croatian Hunting Union, the County Hunting Union and their hunting society. All these funds are reinvested in the hunting ground itself. It is precisely according to the provisions prescribed by the hunting economic bases that define through the ten-year lease, the initial state and the final state after ten years of lease of a number of wildlife, arranged hunting economic, hunting technical facilities, planted remis, processed track surfaces, and I do not know what everything there does not write, and yet what they again require is a huge amount of funds that these hunting societies invest back in the hunting grounds themselves, without talking about the voluntary work of all members who are practically the most in their spare time in the hunting grounds, that they do not already charge their work through some other internal rules that society itself has made. Here's my dear colleague and fellow MPs, I really don't see any reason why this law in this section won't be accepted. This problem is definitely neither solved nor solved by this judgment of the court, nor will it solve this debate of ours today, but it will be a very good guideline in the part where we should go when we talk about the law on hunting and the problem that is obvious and which will be growing from day to day in view of the quality of the vehicle of our citizens, who, unlike the former Yugoslav Fic and Stoidadin with today's vehicles, are incomparably higher speeds. And not to mention highways and fast roads, the quality of asphalt layers and increasing the number of savages so that they run into each other at this moment as we discuss probably somewhere in the area of the Republic of Croatia, whether in Slavonia, Zagorje, Lica, my Croatian coast or some island is already happening. So it's not a harmless or insignificant problem that we can only get through one article in line with the court's ruling and say that we've solved the problem. The problem is big, the problem is huge, and it's not meaningless. If we say that game is generally good of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, then this general good of the interest of the Republic of Croatia should also be paid due attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40009	Thank you, too. The exposure caused six replicas. He's the first of his esteemed colleagues, Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40010	Dear colleague Klaric. Well, I'm just going to take a quick look at this premium debate of yours, how the premiums were small at first, so the insurance houses saw that it didn't pay at all, so then the premiums went up very, very much. You mentioned that it would be good to introduce some premium of 50 kuna if I'm not mistaken that you mentioned it. It would be good and I personally support you in this, but knowing how our insurance houses work, how they work and how they know how to write some of those little letters, there should be very careful because it would not surprise me that after an accident if a bird crashes into your car, it breaks your glass to ask the question afterwards that Mr. Habek is now we must prove or determine whether that bird may have flew from Slovenia, whether the bird is Slovenian, Croatian, etc. So we have total absurdities with us and it would be good to introduce a little premium like this to help people. I believe that people would be interested and satisfied to have such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40011	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40012	Yes, colleague Habek, you're right. But there's Mr. Habek, there's Domagoj Hajdukovic, Tomislav Klaric here's Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic when we talk and the secretary of state about such a law, then we really need to take care of what you said because the fact is that we have absurdity here as much as you want. If we're already going from the most banal thing to still someone, I was surprised the other day when I saw on the Internet that the City of Rijeka was looking for a birth certificate not over six months old. When we talked here about the Arms Act a few months ago, the new Arms Act proposal, we were talking about a metal box with a secure lock keeping the medical records of those who were reviewed. These are some things, some absurd things that are happening at the moment, we are discussing them and even some are proposing them as novelties in the law, and the time has passed. This is more applied to that tin box of 1893 that I was talking about today when we have e-recepts. But apparently someone doesn't think that way. And then there's that story of those little letters at the... insurance premium and everything. But the point of all that I wanted to say as one of the proposals of the possibility of making it easier for the owner of the car, about the owner of the hunting rights, but also for the owner of the road, he gave local, county, Croatian roads or highways and exactly the number of vehicles with a height of damage and with some premium that I'm sure wouldn't be so big as to burden one of those who pays with everything else that's being paid at the insurance. This would be a symbolic amount that could ultimately benefit a much, much greater benefit for the owner of the vehicle than a multi-annual trial, and then an uncertain payment from someone who practically has absolutely nothing at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40013	The second replica is the replica of Representative Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40014	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When you were talking about hunting in general, I sign every word to you, and I am glad that you stressed that this is an extremely important economic, tourist and ecological activity and role that it plays and that is the residual and control of the number or population of savages, what you were talking about spreading the forest, the growth of the number of savages, the damage they are causing, etc. It creates great problems and here we actually see how important our hunting societies are, how important Croatian hunting alliance is and how important this activity is. And I agree, I think we all agree here that this possible intervention in article 83 will not solve this problem. This problem has existed for a long time, it has not been solved by previous law interventions, it will probably not solve this one either. But as I said, we'll at least drop a drop of water on that fire so we can try to reduce it a little bit. When we talk about the insurance of motor vehicles, so talking to ministry representatives, that premium would be even less than you suggested, so it would create a fund that could probably affect these damages that are happening in traffic, so, but we're saying that there are other damages and that's significant damages. And what I'm worried about is here as well as a colleague of Habeca, let's say theoretically, that we introduce it, so that our insurance houses behave. We had an example of a lot of laws and legal provisions that we had brought in a bona fide and then turned out to be completely distorted on the market. I hope that if we go in the direction of resolving this in such a way we should and as a legislator very well consider how to commit our insurance houses then to treat the damage fairly in this case to people who are suffering from traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40015	Answer to the replica of counterpart Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40016	Comrade Hajdukovic, we had before we tried to solve this problem, so we had one law that at one point made it easier for all hunting companies, we were all overjoyed because the damage or responsibility was passed on to the owner of the road. And at that point, neither they nor what I was talking about, the insurance companies were aware of what a big problem it was, so they were non-shalantly accepted to change that in a short time. Because when such a provision was passed, all the damage, or liability for damage, was from a hunting company to the owner of the road. And then the story came about putting signs of game on the road, its values 300 meters ahead or 300 meters behind the very sign and where it should be or where it shouldn't be placed and then the story revolved around this. And now we're in a vacuum. So what I've said, this verdict, it doesn't disturb anything, it can be accepted right now, but it doesn't solve the problem, the problem remains. And what I was just talking about for insurance, specifically damage to vehicles, should be considered a far greater problem that a person personally has dealing with agriculture in his crops. But the point of my entire debate was going in the direction, not only of these changes and the addition of this law, in terms of migrant savages and this part of the damage from savages who live or live in that hunting grounds, but the emphasis of this huge problem hanging on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the one who deals with agriculture, his efforts, the work of torture, the one who owns the property and that hunting society that gathers our citizens who practically have to pay out of their pockets for these great damages. Here, that was the point of my debate...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40017	.../Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Klaric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40018	...when I said this was acceptable but that the problem should be seen much wider.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40019	Thank you. You've been out of time for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40020	.../Intruder Klaric: Excuse me./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40021	Nothing. The third replica is Representative Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40022	Thank you very much. You touched a wide spectrum, obviously you were, and the President of the Hunting Union means you have experience and you know this matter. I'm sure it's very important to me that a savage like... Like a man who's not a hunter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, one very important thing you mention is that many hunters spend a lot of time volunteering to maintain this game in nature, feeding them and helping them survive in nature. But I think it's quite the taste of the whole story. People who invest their time, their money and hunt, but surely out of control on the ground, it is known to me by my friends who invest also their time to protect these animals, feed and who are hunters but is a problem of poaching control. Do you know how much he's into poaching, if there's any records in... Kill in poaching savages? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which isn't controlled, so this is a law for people who will stick to it, you said in 1893 a law was passed that of course you don't kill animals while raising cubs and it's natural, I mean it's not at all. But how many people uncontrollably kill that savage, and what should you do that doesn't happen? And there's certainly a lot of it because we people from the field who are hunters talk about it, who are also investing as you said in your time to protect that savage and, of course, to control that savage so that it should be and for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40023	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40024	Dear colleague Bulj, as you said, and in my debate I pointed out, the great effort and work are being invested by hunting societies in the hunting grounds itself and in the property that they have gradually acquired throughout these decades. My hunting society and such hunting societies in Croatia from your homeland to the end, there to Vukovar we built countless hunting homes. We are three and it is mostly by our own work and our own means, etc., etc. But when you say this about poaching and carnage, it was and it was a special article in that 1893 law that has it now and today, maybe even at this point there are such individuals. But if we were all as honest as you and as a whole huge number and a large majority of our citizens, then we probably wouldn't be passing this many laws in the Croatian Parliament. I didn't read those items here in the law that refer to the penalties of 10, 20, 30, and I don't know how many thousands of kunas that are listed here, but we would have had enough of those commandments of God. So you always have people who are not tied to hunting, carnage or poaching, you have those who, I don't know, will go to rob the bank's business, or here to push Mamic, and throw him into the sea or insult the woman who deserves all the praise because the Croatian name is a national name. There are always people like that, and there will be. So, the percentage is minor compared to the total number of hunting society memberships but the fact is that the problem is great, that the problem from Dubrovnik is across Croatia to Slavonia and that such people have, however, hunting societies pay hunters, cooperation with police stations, with police stations Here I am, please... [[The incursion president: colleague Klaric, time is up again.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40025	We move on to the fourth line, dear colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40026	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, first of all, 1893, so 124 years since the first law, 124 years. The law on hunting today defines that the management of hunting and game, the management of what you said, includes breeding protection, hunting and the use of game and its parts, etc. So I'll do it again. Breed, protect, hunt and use of game. Not hunting, and as some say, killing. So he has a legally regulated statement as it is said. That's what shot the savages. Why am I saying this? Not for no reason. Because when you speak in another dictionary, you create an animosity for hunters in part of people. These are the people who deal with game management. Their primary mission isn't just to shoot a savage. To shoot a trophy deer, it takes about 8, 9 or 10 years for you to invest in that kind of game to become a trophy. So there's a big part, and what you said, the hunting-economic base, of course, is an act that edits in detail, I would say rights and obligations. So we have to do something about it, and so is the solution when you don't have a game in the hunting grounds, you don't want it, you have to legally put it in a hunting-economic base if it's done any damage. Therefore, that part is resolved. But I was going to say that, with the work and effort of the Ministry, the Croatian Hunting Union, when you look at today's game funds and the hunting situation in Croatia is much better and better quality than before oho-ho years ago. But you were talking about the damages. So if you can just explain those two kinds of damages, roads and hunting grounds. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40027	Replica response, colleague Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40028	Well, here's my colleague, I personally know and probably you, and even here other fellow hunters who are hunters that there are a huge number of members in every hunting society who are never and members are 20, 30 or 40 years old, who have not done what you said, not killing, but getting shot at nothing, but being members of a hunting society because they love it, because they love nature, because they love that kind of organization, why they enjoy working with fellow hunters and that part that refers to the shooting itself is really in the whole breeding and protecting process of savages, a very small percentage. So, the simplest thing to explain to that layman is what breeding, protection and game hunting would be like on an OPG where a certain type of animal is grown where it is looked after both age and sexual structure, about some kind of sanitary condition of animals and everything else. As for the cause of traffic damage and the hunting ground itself, the matter is very simple. The gamer runs out on the road, the vehicle hits it, there's damage, but we haven't talked about it, there's damage and a hunting society because that game that's also property has been killed, but it's not seen in the same way, with the same eyes as the damage to the vehicle, and then, consequently, it's above all that and those demands, the financial ones that fall under the hunting rights authority. As for these other damages that we've been talking about, and it really needs to be taken into account, it's also in the hunting grounds but it's on the agricultural surfaces. The law cited this as an easy circumstance, I must admit for hunting societies because he made a commitment, a greater obligation for a farmer to fence it, to protect it properly and always find a model, did not put on an electric shepherd or did not put on a protective fence that the savage would not enter and thus eliminate that part of the accident. That's why I've been through this whole debate and I can see that they're letting me talk, so I keep talking, I point out that problem I'll be done now. [[But you'll be done now, I hope.]] That he should definitely be defended specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40029	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40030	Dear colleague, you quoted here the 1893 law, and someone quoted here the gains of European law, etc. I think we prescribe more laws here than the entire Chinese Empire from the beginning, from 1000 BC to the Chinese Revolution. I'm interested in this, so that we can discuss this law at all need some basic information. We didn't get a single answer, maybe if you knew, you could light me up, enlighten me, how many foreigners here have concessions in Croatia for hunting grounds? How much is an average of hundreds of thousands of kuna paid for a hunting ground? What is the implementation on the ground, where this mechanism that will implement this Article 97 on the ground is the mechanism where penalties from 30 to 80 000 kuna are prescribed for, for example, false use of automatic weapons. And that was done, the savage massacred. And look without centralised planning, I don't know if anyone from the hunting calls is involved in an action plan to implement the National Security Plan. And those people are in the field all the time. When you look from the pyromania that crosses the other side of the neighbouring border, when someone paints with massacred lynx under Dinar, when the Vrana Lake is set on fire until the mechanism is created, until it's planned, you've been centralizing the mental circuit. There's no cure for a fool! There's only one, and that's law and enforcement. I was recently there an area up there where, you have forestry, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Environment. How are these ministries working together? They work in a vacuum where they extract oak, nothing. He says it's a Croatian forest, he has the right to steal. This is the Croatian state of legal corruption. If that doesn't change, this is just a story.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40031	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40032	Well, you've asked a lot of questions, and two minutes are too little time to answer all of that to be answered. So, here's how much is the rent paid for the hunting grounds? There are different amounts of prices depending on the county to the county, depending on the quality, i.e. the value of the hunting grounds so that, for example, my hunting company pays about 5 hectares for about, about 500 ha pays around 16000 kuna per year but the hunting grounds is county. State hunting ground depending on the bonuses for sure... Are there any foreign concessionaries? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is. But that's what the ministry's on about, basically, they're gone. Every hunting ground has its own number, every hunting ground has its own bounty, every hunting ground is registered either through county or through this section of the State hunting grounds, so there are no questions in that section that can be asked. As for, if so, whether you're considering defending yourself very well, and you know I have several pieces of weapons as well as probably each of the hunters. They're all registered, they're all placed at the M.O.P. For all of them there are ultimately controls through organized shootings by hunting societies. And in any case, and in '91. These hunting weapons were some of the first weapons we had on our shoulders through those guards that we held each in his village when he was already preparing the war. So they are certainly represented in that part of the defense itself, not to mention how many people they have own weapons must be in some way trained to serve and serve with them. As far as the hunting grounds are concerned, whether they are not there, I didn't understand well from the foreigners in that part of how much you thought about foreign hunters coming here to Croatia or hunting from tourists. Each hunting society and it is regulated through tourist agencies that can thus organise such commercial hunting for its guests.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40033	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40034	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Klaric. My replica goes in the direction of both you and your colleagues and colleagues not to pass a law that will fall again in the Constitutional Court or parts of that law. Namely, the Constitutional Court abolished paragraphs 3 and 4 of Articles 83 even though it had the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Hunting Union. Why? So because it does not consider that it is in conformity with the Constitution that the hunting association which concluded the lease or concession contract is the basis of the hunting bond and is an integral part of it also a hunting-economic basis. That's what you said. However, if there is no hunting-economic basis, high game, deer game and deer comes out of front of the car and damages the hunting association, according to the Constitutional Court, cannot pay damage to the car, the car owner because they do not have a hunting-economic basis. He's not on the lease, he's not the owner. He owns the state. You yourself said it was a natural wealth and that it was the basis of the Law on Mandatory Relations and let us not go back to a solution that would fall back in the Constitutional Court. And here's to compare it to the colleagues of the SDP and the National Coalition had a contract with the HNS. They're gone. I can't punish them, nor can I charge myself for the damage. That's the way it is in this case. We protect hunting associations who can't pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40035	The answer of the distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40036	So this last part of the contract with HNS pays and doesn't charge the damage I don't know. Now you have the same contract with the SDP. Whether they can charge for what you signed or not, about that, by that. But as for whether or not it will fall again in the Constitutional Court, I don't think it will. But anyway, I think we should finally have this story that we started, what you and I are talking about, and I think in that part we have the same thinking, we're starting the process of making the right solution, because this is a patch. These are two small patches to the law, the one relating to the migrant game he is essentially something cosmetic that we in Croatia have long ago through the law, or through regulations about hunting about protected species of game and everything else. And this part about the Constitutional Court in my opinion was at one point finding some kind of compromise solution because someone was complaining about something, but it's definitely that I've been pointing out the problem here all along. It exists and needs to be dealt with spotlessly, and it can be solved exactly as it is in the reasoning of the law after the previous debate and written through the novelty and through the harmonisation of other rules related to this issue. So, among other things, to think about what I suggested through insurance and vehicles, and then in some part of it, the problem was solved whether the deer wandered from Sremska Mitrovica or the property of a hunting society here in Croatia, but that's definitely the problem to talk about, because the damage is huge, however minor it looks at this moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40037	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, the distinguished representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Assistant. Well, in fact, everything that's being said today is more about the creation of a new Hunting Act, and less about these changes, so our club will also accept this amendment, but I want to point out the same thing to a few things that I hear daily from hunters and also from farmers, but also from local self-government, because as hunting associations, as hunters, we can actually treat it as guardians of balance, and we have no balance in this other part. We don't have a balance between savages and hunters, we don't have a balance between county, local self-government and state. We have problems everywhere we turn and now we're actually coming up with a new law that should regulate that very balance. Here we have heard from the predecessors in the debates on behalf of clubs and replicas of many concrete things and specific problems, even some proposals, and I am being forced, so I am not a hunter, or a member of such associations, but I have great respect and I feel that they are absolutely necessary and necessary. We have situations that county or state are lenders or concessions. The situation is that all this is happening in areas of local self-government, that local self-government has absolutely no material benefit from it, and that they are actually burdened with problems continuously, firstly because associations operate there, secondly because there are problems with the destruction of crops and agricultural producers, and how thirdly that local self-government are now under new obligation to remove carcasses and game from the road, from roads. That's a lot of money. These are new moments that appear. This insurance problem, from the attack of wild animals on motor vehicles, is an extremely difficult and big problem, and if such a problem is not solved, we will in one good part lead associations to malted self-destruction, because I can't stand it. But now we're going to do another thing, think it out loud, I want to share it with you as one idea. Taxes on road motor vehicles are paid into county budgets. The concession, i.e. the lease of the hunting grounds, is paid into the county budget in one good part. Would it be good now and would it be okay for us to now put on these all-in-the-cars-owners-in-a-carriage extra parts of the insurance or maybe we would have to find a solution in this place where we already have the taxes on motor vehicles and where we have the rental of hunting grounds, so in the county. The other part I've often heard about since the Hunters' Association is the price of hunting grounds. I personally believe that associations are a great wealth, that hunting associations, associations of particular interest, could be said, for every state and so on, because it should simply be done, do everything where people want to organize themselves, where they want to use their own time and spend their own money and make a contribution to the community that such associations should in no way be punished, but that they should be stimulated, encouraged and rewarded, and we have a reverse situation. It seems to me we're protecting, all of our laws that we bring in everything but people. I have such a feeling that always in the end those who should practically be in the first place, in the first place they are punished. Today hunters, in principle, really in these leases, do it for a hobby, do it for their pleasure, but it's expensive sport. It's a set of hobby and definitely, there's me in my area, in the area, in the area of the town of Križevci and the surrounding municipalities, there's a large association and there's a few smaller hunters' associations, I talk to them daily, and they're definitely all saying they're on the verge of simply giving up everything and they're not just relaxing, because they can't stand all this stuff that's being imposed on them through legal regulations anymore. There's been a lot of talk here about game damage on agricultural crops. It was said here and the damage in Slavonia, on the islands, in all parts. I'll say that the damage from the crops from the game in the area around the Križevci, so it means on all these parts of Croatia where there are fewer surfaces such that today we have a situation that people stop shining, simply stop processing fields, I can't fence them, I can't protect them, they just say, and what we're going to shine, we're all eaten by pigs, there's nothing there, we're not worth shining, we're gonna grow chica, I've got less cost, I've got less damage. Are we going to succeed in the new bill to provide people who want to sow crops, so that they can shine, or are simply and by this law going in the direction that the chicares appear and that we are still giving hits to farmers, I am talking primarily about agricultural producers and the smaller areas that this part of Croatia is abounding in. There's never been a commission done here, there's no big land surfaces here, there's no possibility of building and there's no protection. What do you do, how do you solve it? How do you protect not only from migration savages but from those who live there all the time? It's simply a big problem, and if we don't solve it with the new Hunting Law, there will be real problems because already such problems are present, so the agricultural surfaces will cease to be agricultural areas, people will produce even less than they are now producing. Here are a few of these just hints, in a few reflections, I ask the competent ministry and the secretary of state, the assistants who are in charge of this part of preparing a new law in the debate on this new Hunting Act to include not only hunting associations, hunting societies but also agricultural producers, local self-government, county and to try to find a common solution, to try to find a balance, because if there is no balance, no one will truly be satisfied, and especially I appeal to the associations, hunting associations to go to one with a very gentle, mild approach, to stimulate people to join, to encourage them, to help them because they need them as such, and not to punish them, sanction them, and to charge them with everything that someone else should pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40039	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused several replicas. He is the first of his distinguished representatives, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Hrg, you have well established in your debate that there is a need for some balance in the financing of wildlife damage caused not by hunting associations or hunters themselves, but there are things that are essential problems in hunting sites that are connected to the state roads, which are connected to the county roads. These are all things that should be systematically planned both in road transport and in the Law on road traffic that the migration of game established in certain areas should have certain crossing points across the road so that the gamer can migrate uninterruptedly. This should probably be built in that roads must also have their own plan in order to make black spots on these major parts, so there are migration areas and paths for which game is passing. But that the damage is enormous and that insurance companies have increased the premium to the extent that hunting societies can't pay, that they themselves are two, three thousand kunas per year huge for hunting societies who have to pay memberships to have mandatory works on hunting facilities, they have to build feeding sites, solos, restore checks, bring new game deficits into hunting sites, all of which, when you see it, are really those people who have huge expenditures to be in nature to be generally useful. I hope that in the new law we will find much better solutions to solve this problem systematically and not only to be burdened by those who deal with farming, saving, and then to the rest of the savages.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40041	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Branko Hrg will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40042	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, that you said that the Law on Roads should include crossings, all that is necessary, and that you mentioned the County Roads in particular. That won't be possible right now. If we remember what former Minister Mr. Hajdas Doncic did to the ZUCs by taking huge amounts of money from them, then today we have a situation that we can't even maintain roads, let alone think about crossings. That's why I said that we should take a closer look at things and that we should see it is with paying taxes on road motor vehicles going into county budgets that are also renters to hunting associations and that there is an attempt to find a solution with insurance companies or otherwise. Those answers should also be sought in order to preserve hunting societies. Does it really have to be a great passion and a great love of nature for animals that today man wants to be a hunter at all? I'm not talking about that category of our fellow citizens who are materially to say well-strained, they can afford it. I'm talking about people who don't have great incomes, who have great passion and love, and they're the ones who invest the most, who respond most to actions, who work most on these hunting sites, on buildings, on feeding these people, should be allowed to be less, cheaper, and to get relieved, to get even rewards, not punish them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40043	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrg, here you have touched a lot more aspects of hunting, their activities of hunting societies and similar to this law under consideration, so I just wanted to underline one more thing that you have already mentioned, which is that hunting associations, associations are of particular importance. They are absolutely for all the reasons you have stated and that their activity is both economic, ecological and social. I'm undermining this third one right now, and that's social when we talk about smaller environments, when we talk about rural areas, fire company and hunting society play an extremely important role in the social, social life of a small community. If we are talking about the depopulation of Croatia, which unfortunately happens, especially rural areas, especially Slavonia, then we must bear in mind that hunting societies are one of the pillars that could not only young people but also all others and keep and bring them to these areas. Unfortunately, I'm afraid, by this provision, or this kind of provision, we don't go to them for damages. Here, yesterday I spoke to a member of a hunting society, a small hunting society in Slavonia, there are only 15 members, faced with two convictions, huge damages that they cannot finance. You know how the only thing I can do? That each performs 1,000, 2000 kunas, and that's how they finance it. They said it's not the first time they've paid for damages, so they've done it before, but because of economic and any other situation, it's already too much for people. You said it was an expensive sport, it was, and it's expensive because of this aspect that we're talking about, and that's the damage. So 15 people, I say they're going to shut down the hunting association because they can't finance it any more, the hunting association, or the hunting society has no property, there's no way they can pay the damage and everyone in this story is actually damaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40045	The answer of the esteemed representative, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40046	I've actually talked more about this social aspect, not this commercial, economic aspect, because this part of commercial, commercial hunting ground is something else, so it's private tenants who have their own interest, economic character, or they have it out of their throats, so they can afford it, but ultimately it can be that, but associations are definitely one big fortune. And without those associations, let's just try to imagine, what you said, let's try to imagine there are no hunting associations. Let's remember today the fox situation comes to people in the yard. They live in abandoned facilities where cattle are no longer available today. So today, here in this neighborhood around the Cross, you can't leave a hen accidentally overnight open, there's no feathers in the morning. Cats slaughter, so cats slaughter foxes. That's terrible. Now imagine that there are no hunting associations that would happen. And absolutely, in any case, that new law is important. So these changes are, definitely and we are told so on the committee that you chaired that this is one solution to the harmonisation of the European legislation, the directives of Europe, and that is something that is essentially short of breath. I expect a new hunting law very soon. And I'm just initiating, asking, please try to find that balance so that everyone can survive, that everyone can somehow help better quickly about people and, of course, animals because people care about animals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40047	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I welcome the Secretary of State with an associate. Mr. Hrg, your debate shows that there is a huge experience in working in local administration and problems concerning local administrations and then through local administration and all activities, activities where hunting must be one important, important thing. You have opened a series of topics here that would require a truly huge debate and I believe that this debate of yours will encourage the ministry even though they are aware that many of these things must be answered, i.e. they must put it in their programs and seek solutions. I wanted to replicate only one thing about the tax on road vehicles that are charged in the county as you said, that's true but you see, county budgets are so small, symbolic and none that it's very difficult from these means now to look for a solution for these big problems we have with insurance, with the damages that are happening and it won't be feasible. Maybe it's part of these concessions that are charged. Because we're really in a state today that we can't talk about hunting economics anymore because exactly what you said at the end, which would be if there weren't any hunting societies. Hunting societies are useful, not someone to be charged as if they were a good marine, so he'll make some money there. What hunters earn, it was also one question, which they earn, so we will now charge them a concession, that hunting economic base. It makes sense for maybe those who deal with tourism, hunting tourism, so they're gonna make some money there, so now they need to ask them back. Perhaps you should consider liberating them from these concessions and encouraging them to work and solve problems and savages and rearing savages and all that matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40049	The answer of the esteemed representative, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40050	I see a fellow Sanader still living in you mayor. So this wasn't in any bad sense, I just put things on the table the way they stand, so setting things from a position to... local self-governments and associations present here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here in the debates before mine was often mentioned and this was also on the Committee on Agriculture, the possibility of a payment of some kind of insurance in the registration of the vehicle. And I'm just saying that the county is a tenant and that the county is the recipient of taxes on road motor vehicles. That's why I don't think it's right for citizens, motor vehicle owners, to pay for some extra charge in the extreme case of insurance damage from gamers in traffic. And as for this part that the county doesn't have big budgets, that's true. In principle, the county has unfortunately a transfer role in funds with very small own resources. But I personally believe that counties are places that should primarily take care of even development, that is their basic task, especially in the development of agricultural production, and that hunting and hunting associations are also in that segment. So we need to find solutions I repeat, for this balance, to establish a balance. I think you're aware of that yourself, and you've emphasized that, and in any case, if you fall into several of these laws and regulations, if you're fully aware of all of this together, if we're not just going to change one law, we're not following up with all the regulations, we have a chance to do that, we have a chance to pass a law aimed at people's interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40051	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the next speaker, I'd just like to inform you. Since the committees haven't done points like in order in our agenda, then we'll do the next point when we finish this point. The next item will be the Proposal for a decision to declare Croatia's Fat Consciousness Day, which means that one good part of the point will have to be skipped because the committees simply did not complete their work. I hope and appeal to them to do their job as soon as possible. But here's next on this point, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40052	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with an associate, I welcome you all on behalf of the HSS Club. The HSS Club also welcomes the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European directives, especially when it comes to the protection of nature, the protection of wildlife, and these changes go in this direction to protect gamers, to make hunting time, mating and rearing cubs, which is every contribution to biodiversity and species conservation and, of course, neither fellow hunters nor the Croatian Hunting Union is against. What should be pointed out is that in the past and last year, in nature there is also a bird flu that has not been mentioned so far, and so here I am using the opportunity to warn that in Croatia because of the ban on hunting due to bird flu, there has been a shortened hunting season for more than a month, and that a certain number of hunting associations have suffered this damage because of it, especially those who deal with hunting tourism, and also the farmers of pheasantry, specifically and that I do not know whether they have been compensated in a certain way for the damage they have suffered, so I suggest that they consider it through the reduction of the rent or in other ways, those in hunting associations who, reporting damage. As regards this bill and the disputed Article 83(3) and (4) which the Constitutional Court abolished, on the basis of the request of lawyer Petar Krnić, the Constitutional Court ruled that paragraph 3 and 4 should be abolished because it considers it and therefore requested the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Hunting Union and, with all the arguments it has received, it is not fair and not in accordance with the Constitution, that the hunting association which has a hunting ground or concession is a designated hunting ground and does not have a particular type of game, and that the species commits traffic damage, that they pay for the damage. It's no small damage, such cases in the Republic of Croatia a year from 1,000, somewhere an average estimated value of about 20 million kuna if I have good data. Our hunting associations, especially the county hunting grounds of the smaller ones, can't bear it financially, so the lawyer on his behalf and on behalf of an association and filed this request, and to bring you closer to this problem, a small hunting association in its hunting-economic base, which is the basis of the lease contract and the foundation which it manages by this hunting ground, has to master with the pheasant, rabbit, wild duck and pests, means there is no high game, deer game, and since it is a migration species by nature and that 50 kilometers a day it can do, it goes out on a road belonging to their hunting ground and this hunting association should pay for damage under the former law. He had an obligation if she noticed longer in the area, to be included in the hunting-economic base, but until he had classified her, he was neither the owner nor the tenant of the same. Also, they cannot calm themselves down because the law then allows them to seek permission to shoot and savages to compensate for the damages they have paid for the damages. I can't because it doesn't dwell on their hunting grounds and I can't charge and with it, since it's already mentioned here that game is a natural wealth of special interest to the Republic of Croatia, so the state is also owned by the Law on Mandatory Relations, because it's a mandatory state again, so we suggest that colleague Hajdukovic suggested it and how we discussed this law to the Committee on Agriculture, to remain the situation as the Constitutional Court ruled, that for such cases, the State pays for damages, until a new, comprehensive Hunting Act is passed, because at this moment we will be brought into a situation that this law will fall again in the Constitutional Court, that is because the ministry returns it to its initial position. I think it is irresponsible of us and I am surprised that the ministry is going with such a proposal, that it is returning the matter to the same and here is my colleague Krnić this morning, that if this law passes in this form, it will reapply to the Constitutional Court and it will fall again in the Constitutional Court because there are no other arguments than the Ministry of Agriculture has already given its testimony and the Croatian Hunting Union. So here's an appeal to consider, I think it's useful to adopt the amendment at this point, and then, in the new Hunting Law, this issue is solved in a different way, either through vehicle insurance, road insurance or in a third way, but the fact that hunting associations, especially these small hunting associations, do not have adequate means of paying these damages, and most of them are already in financial trouble because of that. Also when it comes to the damage of game in agricultural cultures. And here, through the new Hunting Law, we need to work this out better, more specifically. Because on the one hand, we have a situation on the ground that we have a reduction in agricultural activity, that small plots near the forest are being brought to our gills, that the habitats are spreading and that it is simply impossible to prevent damage to agricultural cultures. And the insurance policies of the hunting association can't keep it together, there are blockades of associations or there's a huge dissatisfaction of agricultural producers because these damages are small, the damage is small and it's not timely. Because you can't make it up to some milk manufacturer who's lost the corn because he doesn't have food for his cattle and can't produce milk. Until he gets the money, until he finds a replacement amount of corn on the market, he has production damage. And also with dietary grass mixes or any other culture where damage has been done. So I think we need to discuss the new law more precisely and qualityd. Here is also the problem, the problem already mentioned is the problem of pests spreading the arena and increasing the number and foxes, and in Slavonia and the cough has become a problem. We have a problem that the nail is too numbered, and some larger hunting associations didn't have it on a hunting ground. A part of the European countries where the nail is disappearing is seeking to protect itself, to be a protected species, and with us it is too numbered. And that is why the appeal to the Croatian Hunting Union and the Ministry, as well as to the associations to report it, to include it in hunting grounds, to work on fire, not to avoid firing it, because we will have a problem that we too will have to protect it and with us it is too numbered and doing damage in hunting sites, and it has become dangerous in settlements as well. We are also asking on behalf of 70,000 hunters to comply with EU laws. It's a particular obligation for hunters to go to a medical examination every five years. We think it's too restrictive for our hunters and too expensive for them because this every medical examination costs 700 to 1000 kuna and it's a blow to their home budget why it wouldn't be 10 years, as it is in some other European countries, and we have European states that don't prescribe such a provision at all, but they do it through the obligation of a family doctor as it is built in us that if a hunter, the owner of a weapon gets sick to inform the competent state authorities and then the next thing you know, he is denied the right to be a hunter and has the right to carry, hold a weapon. I think that can be better worked out, not going home budget hunters hitting on them. Once again, I appeal that this amendment be accepted, that we pass a law that will be enforceable and that will be in accordance with the Constitution, not that we pass a law that will fall again in the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40053	Thank you very much. And we have replicas on your exhibit. He is the first to be respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am glad that you underlined exactly what I have appealed for, which is that we are knowingly passing a law that will trap us again in the Constitutional Court. So, I also understand why we went to the amendments to this law no matter what new preparations are being made, so the motionary also introduced us to the debate on this law on the parent board. But I don't understand why this stubbornly refuses. Yeah, we're not gonna solve the problem, we're not gonna solve it. There's now this debate and more ways to solve it, more looking at the problem. It is evident that we will not only solve it by the Hunting Law but also by other laws that are not necessary in the Ministry of Agriculture's portfolio. But again, if we put out the fire, even if it's a drop of water, we'll put it out. This is how we let him keep on burning. And you mentioned roads. Yeah, road owners tell you we've put a sign of danger on the road, game and their responsibility stops there. That's not good. So, first of all for hunting societies that are also made sure that game doesn't come out of the hunting grounds,... fences, physical barriers, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're investing the same amount of money, and they're still doing the damage. So that's where we need to find a way to solve it. This would be just a drop I repeat on the fire, but it would be a drop again. And what happens to us if we don't? We pass the law today, tomorrow we re-applicate constitutionality and again where we are, what have we done? Nothing. Where have you been? Nowhere. What were you doing? Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40055	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hajduković, we agree that no laws should be passed that will fall again in the Constitutional Court and thus we treat both irresponsiblely and against our Constitutional Court, to hunters, to everyone, according to the taxpayers. We're finally wasting taxpayers' time and money here, and we're not going to solve the problem. I also understand the ministry because the financial obligation at this point is in the state, i.e. the Ministry of Finance would probably burden the Ministry of Agriculture and their budgets that do not have it planned in their budget. But there I am always for finding a solution, but not to the harm of hunting associations, especially county hunting associations that are small financial opportunities. And I don't think there's a lot of such hunting associations that don't have, on their hunting grounds, a tall game, because it mainly does the most damage in traffic. So I don't think that would be a great burden to the Ministry of Agriculture, and I don't see any reason to insist so much that this problem is solved this way until the new Hunting Law is passed, I think what the Constitutional Court has decided is correct. And as for road markings with signs of game danger, I always emphasize and appeal to hunting associations and to the County Road Administrations to place these signs and rebuild those who have been destroyed. And here is an appeal to those who are destroying signs that they are not stripping them, for they are certainly using both traffic safety and we are all involved in traffic and should be accountable to others and ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40057	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vlaovic, you were the head of the regional self-government unit, deputy mayor, you were talking about handcuffs and bricks entering the suburban areas of the settlement, so I'm wondering how you think we could solve this problem, whether local self-government units should be involved through their communal offices or possibly along with veterinary organisations and their rehabilitation services, or whether we should think about changing the 200,300 meters of the protection belt, because this is obviously a growing problem, we'll have to sort it out in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40059	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40060	Thank you, colleague Križanić. So I agree with you that a solution must be found in cooperation with the state bodies, the Croatian Hunting Union, the unit of local, regional self-government, because the fact that there is a greater number of handcuffs and jackals in these border areas of hunting grounds is closer to the settlement. Whether the 300m limit is too big or too small, it is for public debate, and the problem is the spread of rabies that can happen, the problem is also the damage to family economies, and the problem is and here we heard in our continental area, in the coastal area where savages occur, and pests in the very part where the apartments are, where we have a problem and tourists are afraid and do not come into some areas or run where they appear. I think there must be a way to solve this, and there is no mention here of yet another problem precisely urban areas which are improbable areas and we in our county have solved this through the definition that this is an unloved area for the town of Slavonski Brod and associations that are gravitating in the town of Slavonski Brod, we have solved it in a way that each participates in part and is responsible in cooperation with other bodies to act when there is any savage or vermin in that area and the model is being agreed on how to solve it. So this can be one model, let our administrative model for agriculture in Brod-Posavina County, as we have solved, be able to solve other cities that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40061	Thank you very much. We will now move to individual debates and the first to come forward for individual debate, respected representative Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40062	Your Honor, Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Many things have already been said, it is always better to speak first than last, and for some time and vice versa, but these amendments and additions to the Hunting Law are made exclusively because of compliance with EU legislation and we will support such changes and additions to the HDZ Club even though they are minimal. For example, it is proposed to ban hunting for feathered game during breeding and rearing of cubs, as well as to hunt for a female such savage, hairy game during the pregnancy or during the conduct of cubs. Now we're going back to the subject that we discussed on the board, which is that there is no doubt that there is compensation for the gamer's damage to the gamer regardless of whether the gamer lives in a hunting ground or is a so-called migrant game, so it caused the damage to migration in a hunting grounds where it is not on a hunting ground. There are certain dilemmas, and the answer is whether such a game, which happened to be found in a particular hunting grounds, which is not listed in the hunting economic base, ownership and good RH and then also responsible for the damages resulting from the ownership of the Republic of Croatia over the Republic of Croatia, as interpreted by the Constitutional Court, or whether that game came from one of the neighbouring hunting grounds which it has entered into the hunting grounds from which the hunting grounds and who is then responsible for that damage, if it came from a nearby hunting ground. So, it is certainly a dilemma to which the Ministry of Agriculture will have to respond in future amendments and additions to the law, i.e. in the complete law that is now entering the E-consultation, of course, that this decision must take care of any claims, of the salva of the lawsuits arising from the adoption of this law, and especially because of the damage to the crops. We have given this dilemma, but many other observations of the proposals in the first reading of the Ministry of Agriculture's task to install and implement this new law. For example, we warned that commercial hunting sites should be distinguished from hunting associations and hunting societies. So hunting societies and hunting associations, they guard, protect, and care for game farming. There's a situation on the ground that less and less hunters are interested in this kind of activity and the hunter population is getting older and hunting has become a very expensive hobby. Therefore, we need to take care of hunting for the tenants, and I urge you to keep an eye on the occasion of the next draft law. Mostly in those hunting grounds where little game dwells. Such a catch rent should be minimal or none. The conditions for breeding game have been applied especially because the hunting grounds have become scattered by highways or roads, agricultural agrotechnics are changing and it is very difficult to grow certain species of game, so we come to a situation that you have in the northwestern part of Croatia very small amounts of race or, for example, rabbit, of course, with a certain kind of large game, for example. Wild boars, the situation is very different. And there should be thought about eliminating hunting for black game, especially in some situations where the uncontrollable increase in the number of individuals is harmful to agricultural crops. And there I definitely agree with the fact that we need to distinguish the situation from one side of the hunter's and the hunting association, and on the other hand farmers who have huge damage, so that with the removal of the hunting grounds at that point on black... prays for some things to be moved. Now we're going back to the damages, so the damage paid by the hunters, the hunting societies are definitely getting bigger and we have to seriously think about taking sides of them anyway because they're crossing millions. A lot of poachers are in front of bankruptcy because of that. At any point in time, when there is a clash of savages on the road with a vehicle or savages with a vehicle or a vehicle with savages are mainly judgments on the damage of hunters. The law says that the road is not a hunting ground, we talk about it all the time, yet everything that happens on the road all the damage goes to the expense of hunters or possibly insurance companies in those hunting associations that have such insurance. Today's premium prices are extremely high in any hunting associations can afford such insurance situations, and they often enormously exceed the bounty and even the value of the hunting base. I also agree with a lot of predecessors and I have proposed it and in the first version of the law, the calculations are that it would be 15, 20 kuna enough for us who pay insurance for motor vehicles to be included in insurance, which would include damages from the attack of savages on the road and the need for countless court cases with which neither drivers nor hunters would be satisfied. Furthermore, the Hunting Law should more clearly identify the problem of reducing the number of predators, especially foxes. On the so-called team. The protection areas from 200 to 300m from the settlement in many cases are precisely these areas full of predators and it is not rare for foxes to enter the house, my predecessors talked about it, and in chickens, poultry, even in small towns, let alone in rural areas. A particular problem is the abolition, I said it last time, to pay off the stimuli of fox hunters by the restoring ministry, which is 150 kuna and which then resulted in the leftover corpses of foxes in the hunting grounds, which can then be a potential public health problem or source of infection. Thus, we do not have a continuous monitoring of rabies monitoring after the oral vaccination has been carried out over the past period. I appeal to return that fee to the hunters. Namely, the hunters were paid a fee of 100 kuna and 50 kuna to veterinary organisations for the implementation of monitoring and transport, transport costs and reception of foxes. The issue of the hunting grounds should also be addressed more clearly, and this has already been discussed today by the talk and savages more precisely, the rights and duties of the hunters, but also the mandatory cooperation of the hunters' police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40063	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Stephen Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40064	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Križanić, we are talking here about the consequences that we are witnessing, and we are not talking about the cause of all the problems that have hit us. The fact that hunting was once arranged that way before the Homeland War and there was no problem with anger, especially with the coals. So with the Homeland War comes all the problems in Croatia and so on in hunting. If Croatia had managed to collect war damage, it would probably have managed to solve all the problems that have hit the whole of Croatia, as well as our hunting. I come from Vukovar-Srijem County and I especially know the terrains in our Cvelferia, not in Gunja where the flood was, but in Strošinci, trimming and the part that is tied to Serbia is familiar to me. So, because of the mining and the savages that were not prevented immediately at the beginning, it spread itself and multiplied in areas where it had never been before, especially the brick. Why? People have moved out of that area, not just because of the war, but because of what the Homeland War has brought them, and it has brought their property, not investment, not solving war damage, not paying off war damage, destroying their property, destroying their fields and fields, abandoning them, so the whole problem is that. And if we would like to solve the problem of Croatian hunting, we could simply prescribe from some who have more experience, especially Austria and some Western countries, and we wouldn't have to look for many causes and consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40065	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40066	I didn't understand exactly what you're alluding to, it's certain that the evicted areas are a particular problem, especially in such evicted areas where it's spreading, where we're sure by the Law on Land that is now coming to our benches, and we're probably going to solve this problem that there's a much greater possibility of spreading and multiplying especially foxes and predators, and it's much harder to react because in such areas, hunting associations are less active and there's probably less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40067	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40068	Dear counterpart Križanić, you were talking about oral vaccination and the means that hunting societies should get back. If you remember 10 or more years ago, regularly Slovak societies, on the ground they were carrying out vaccines themselves, completely free and the state provided these funds. In the past few years, this has been done in a completely different way and I believe with huge costs and it would be interesting to know which ones are the same because the contest has given me the Czech Republic or that the vaccines have been thrown out through the aircraft through forest areas and thus an oral vaccination has been carried out. In one part of it, you mentioned responsibility, justice and justice, however anyone interpreted it, I was always surprised when they told me it wasn't the same thing until I saw a single verdict in my town when the dog ran across the road, a man to avoid hitting a dog in a truck and later the family sued. And the verdict was a million and 500 thousand kunas had to pay compensation for such a case. And I mention that for reasons of being similar and almost identical judgments and hunting societies in that part when it comes to responsibility. It is therefore referred to the Law on Mandatory Relations. At this point, it was not possible to determine the owner of the dog, so responsibility was transferred to the local self-government unit in whose area this happened. And propo, what you're saying about who's responsible for a savage who's not on a hunting ground. According to all the judgments so far, it goes to a hunting society in whose area this happened. I personally think that it's not fair and that what we're doing here all the time with the new law should clear up that problem so that once and for all, you know who's responsible, what they're saying, and how they don't repeat themselves like this, I'd say almost no more. Because game is a living thing, it's not a dangerous thing like any other animal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40069	Thank you. The esteemed representative Josip Križanić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40070	Thank you, dear colleague, first of all for oral vaccination. It was completed a few years ago and precisely in the way that it stimulated hunters from 150 kuna who brought foxes to veterinary cells that were subsequently forwarded to the veterinary institute. We had insight and monitoring of the movements of rabies in the Republic of Croatia. For the past few years, it's been reduced, and now it's not anymore, so it doesn't apply to all the handcuffs anymore, and we can't say with complete certainty what the state of security is related to rabies. As far as hunting societies and the responsibility of gamers are concerned, I also agree with this and argue responsibly that a hunting society that has not entered into a particular game on a hunting basis cannot be held responsible if such gamers do damage. I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40071	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Križanić, you have devoted one major part of your debate to the problem of small hunting societies or associations. Em that hunters are getting smaller, is that this population is getting older and that unfortunately fewer young people are getting involved in hunting associations, i.e. they want to deal with hunting. Besides being an expensive sport, he has a number of obligations. In fact, the public experience hunters only through hunting, or killed savages, and less through labour and all that precedes them. Namely, every hunter needs to build feeding sites and saltfields. There are a number of environmental actions, meaning cleaning up hunting grounds from malicious individuals who throw everything and everything into hunting grounds, that is, nature. So hunting, or hunting, or membership in the hunting association requires and a lot of giving up their free time. Namely, two, three years ago, and in the County Assembly of Varazdin County, we devoted four sessions in a row to the issue of the extension of hunting. This is related to this topic of ours is 40% of the companies originally according to the Ministry of Agriculture's position could not get an extension of hunting. After numerous interventions and memos from both the county and the hunters, it was eventually changed. Therefore, I agree with you that the legislator's intensity should go to allow smaller hunting societies to facilitate hunting and simplify their activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40073	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Joseph the Cross.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40074	Thank you. I am familiar with the situation, colleague Strick, it was an absurd situation where, because of this, I now appeal to the State Secretary and to the future minister where the dispute against certain companies did not extend the lease. We then have a much, much more serious situation today, in that case. I'm also here for the presummation of justice. And we have, there have been a lot of candidates for mayors and mayors who have been charged with far more serious acts than they've been incriminated in these cases, so they're mayors and mayors today. And not only am I in favour of the process of obtaining an extension of leases to simplify small hunting associations but I am in favour of reducing such poaching or even giving them free just to protect and protect and care for game farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40075	Thank you very much. We are now moving forward with the law we discussed, which is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Hunting Law. And for the individual debate, the distinguished representative, Dragica Roscic, came in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40077	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome all representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, colleagues and colleagues. Here are the changes that are contained in the 4 articles, the Hunting Act, if I'm not mistaken, we've changed seven times, it's time to pass a new law, he's going to an electronic debate next week. Of course, before all the points come in line, here at the plenary session, I'm also asking around on the ground, talking to hunting societies and I'm a hunter myself, and I'm trying to focus all their remarks on the Hunting Law in general on these changes and additions. However, I have to look around and a little bit wider like other colleagues, all concerned by this responsibility for the damages of hunting societies, as they report to me, 50 poachers are before closing, but what I want to focus are precisely these changes where we here when we talk about that it's forbidden to hunt often we only speak forbidden to hunt, so females, cubs. Let's often forget to disturb this word. And unfortunately, under different influences in the hunting grounds, even by EU institutions, implementation and projects, there is even harassment of animals, so that I would like to stress this part here especially when we mention the potential of hunting tourism and other forms, means in hunting sites. What's going on, what they've mentioned are those border areas that, so between Slovenia, are wires, migrant roads, so savages are disabled. We also have situations with neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina where, for example, ducks are treated in a different way than in Croatia, leading to absurd situations. Also in Split-Dalmatia County we have situations where a trend has increased and a declaration of cycling trails in hunting sites is certainly positive and we encourage cycling tourism. And what happened when the Fund for Tourism was used is that somehow all municipalities are competing to withdraw more funds from European funds and some funds are not available. And as we know in Dalmatia, we have a lot of legal and property problems, and then such projects, like cycling trails or some other promenades, come down to the fact that they're not infrastructure procedures and then they approach some kind of forest section, a road that's unclassified or maintained by hunters or forests are declared to mean cycling paths. They mark the GPS and we start to attract tourists to those areas that are otherwise hunting sites. And then let's say after these devices are taken and advertised and all, and no infrastructure procedures have been made to keep these areas safe for both animals and cyclists. Or, let's say, we make big commercials, and we don't really get to know the motorists that this time of reproduction is, say, April and May now, something like that often upsets wild animals. And it is important to stress that this very existence of wild and protected animals can be one additional plus for the development of cycling and hunting tourism, but it requires greater communication and introduction of all these tourists who come to such areas. We also have overlapping competences with Croatian forests, public institutions, municipalities and all this leads to one problem because such projects are done too quickly. We copy them on successful examples of those we see outside, and we don't respect our own individualities, specificities that we just need to be plus and not minus. So I would point out here briefly on this change, which is the short part itself, and as of next week, I would be a little bit more concerned with all these aspects mentioned by hunters who are not concerned by these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40078	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40079	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rostice. You talked a little bit about animals and not just hunting, but disturbing animals. I have to say here that I am glad that after 10 years Croatia ends up exploiting a kind of animal, or chinchilla that will no longer be possible to grow for fur. So that's what I say. We need her for a long time. It's been a transitional period for 10 years. Many stakeholders have opposed this, but thank God I support that we in Croatia fight for such things, for example because of fur farming is not possible and cannot grow animals and on this side these are standards that Croatia must represent. And sometimes certain topics that may be a little more current are pushing certain topics for which Croatian citizens are also interested in another plan. On that side, I would like those standards that the EU knows to be adopted earlier, but better ever than never. And I'm glad to say that since 2017 it won't be possible to grow chinchillas for profit and thus exploit animals for something that I think is deep is not something to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40080	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative Rosčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40081	I thank my colleague Maras for the replica. We have a more specific situation here than the chinchilla situation, because hunters already have those standards adopted in their statutes. But some, unfortunately, who are only formal hunters, and in fact they're not real, those hunters took advantage of this situation. Here we are in Dalmatia, on the islands, often being shot off and young and female, so it's important that we also have a legal provision for this particular situation. Of course, I welcome those others you listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40082	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40083	My colleague Roscic, you say you do the hunting yourself. Do you think it's good to use our hunting grounds for economic and tourist purposes? Is that what you think it's like running a hunting concession? Is it the same to you as you are managed by, say, the maritime well-being? Is it possible to use our hunting ground better and only that, and the development of tourism and economic development itself, means huge areas of our county because it's similar to that of Brač on Bol, so everything is not well used – the beach has been enjoyed. Or perhaps in your Myst Bashkoi Waters where the port and maritime well was rented and convenient because it is evident that the tender is granted to individuals. According to you, whether the hunting ground in the territory of the Republic of Croatia has been used and commercialized in a way that is for the benefit of all both hunters and economic development and tourism development or is only the purpose of individuals, in fact, of people who mismanage these areas such as ports and maritime well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40084	The answer of the respected representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40085	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. As far as the meaning of lonely tourism is concerned, I think it is certainly necessary to develop it and make better use of it and that hunting tourism is not just shot, we have photo hunting, bird watching and everything else, and of course it is important that the local community, local hunting associations, benefit from it just as well as the benefits of maritime goods, because in my municipality it has not just been suitable for the individual, unlike the situation in Brač, Bol, it is in the municipality that the use of maritime goods is given to the benefit of all those people who have built their own self-delivery, building small prayers and everything else. So we definitely need to amend the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports in this direction so that there is no possibility at all of the individual who will be able to take advantage of the local environment of the use of maritime goods, so we should also give priority to the use of the hunting grounds, those local hunters who have maintained it for years, lead to certain species not being destroyed, protected and definitely the entire contribution they have been making for many years and traditionally giving respect to the use of both marine goods and the use of hunting grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40086	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40087	Dear colleague Rosčić, you have well noted, the excitement of the game, if there were cycling trails and all this that you were talking about, outside of the youth management season, and the opposite is happening, that the range of all these uses of cycling trails is within the tourist season, just at the time of the breeding game and when young people are being led. But you said one word that offered me this replica, we use examples from outside. So here's an example that, in my opinion, should never have happened here in Croatia, because Croatia's experience with oral vaccination, let's say the foxes in this area were perfect. The state cost nothing but vaccines, where hunters are voluntarily alone through labour operations at specific locations. After that, the practice was introduced, and the vaccine began to be thrown out of the plane, and, behold, miracles, not from our planes, but by a stranger. Now in the meantime, I took a break to check how much it cost, and according to my information, about 15 million euros. And now that we look at what 15 million euros means. If it were to be deployed to the territory of the whole of Croatia towards hunting societies, just those involved in breeding, the protection of hunting savages organizes all of this. Who did all this volunteering, free of charge, and feedback was much better, because it was controlled by every... savage, because hunters then brought it to veterinary facilities where the effect of this vaccine was checked. So we've come to a paradoxical situation. To have someone who willingly wants to do something, we have some kind of unsuspecting regulation that imposes a completely different solution that is not as effective as this and costs abnormal resources. Just as you said, we're using some side of experience, and we're not using what our experience in practice has proved to be very useful and very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40088	Thank you. The reply of the distinguished representative Rosčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40089	Here, I thank my colleague Klaric, I just wanted to highlight this with these, let's say taking good examples from other countries that we simply need to recognize our specificities, our advantages, and not copy some of these things even though some of our colleagues want to make the impression that those legislative documents we bring are conditional on the directives. Here is the third session of the Croatian Parliament, we have passed 22 laws, 6 has been conditioned by harmonisation, everything else is what we can determine ourselves, decide what is best, and now this next Hunting Act, that is, the new law is not subject to the directives, and it is very important that in the implementation and implementation of the directive, we introduce what is necessary, but indeed, what we leave and recognize and that we be a good example as we can in other EU countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40090	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of the distinguished representative Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Once again, I welcome the secretary of state, the assistant. Here is this brief amendment of the Hunting Law, or compliance with European directives, that has shown a series of needs, a series of problems concerning hunting and hunting activities, and it certainly implies and requires the quick adoption of the new Hunting Act, which should solve a series of these details that are set out here today. I'd look back at some of those without repeating ourselves. The first question of insurance and damage that occur and gamers and crops is everything that needs to be regulated and needs to be helped by hunters, namely here and in the debates is said, and I also know that on the ground, a series of hunting societies have already come to the brink of existence, i.e., curiosity, their continued use of leases and concessions that they have from the counties. This is why we need new law to find ways to help Croatian hunters, this is an opportunity to publicly praise the work of the Croatian Hunting Union, if the work of hunting alliances in the areas of the counties and our hunting associations, which practically, here are the Croatian forests and the Ministry of Agriculture and the care of game and hunting. It is often the opening of debates of the type that hunters are the only ones who exterminate game, which is not true, are those who are engaged and who work in hunting, but also those who work both local and regional administrations, know about the importance of Croatian hunters. I also join my predecessors who have given an important focus on this issue of insurance and finding ways to help hunters, how to deal with it, or with insurance associations, or companies that deal with it, and we also need to find ways to help the county because the counties receive modest funding from these concessions, i.e. the lease of land for hunting activities, and there may be a need to see that the counties give up part of that income and if the entire income obtained by this means is intended and it is further used and being helped both hunters and the hunting grounds, but this hunting foundation has become the whole science in the field when they are sought to elaborate and when hunting associations then it has practically become a really small science and teams of professional people have to prepare it and have to work on it. So one question that is asked here today is really questions to think about, and that's what it would be if there weren't any hunting associations, hunting alliances, if there weren't such organized action of hunters, who would take care of it? I'm sure it's the Ministry's primary activity. Hunters will not disappear, it is clear, a tradition of 120, 30 years of hunting associations is something that is already a way of life, a culture of life in Croatia as well as in many parts of Europe, and that will not happen. But we need to find a way to help. For example. in Dalmatia, especially in the islands where the population has evicted, where there is a small number of people where agriculture is practically not there, where everything is abandoned, where our fields have been practically turned into jungles, there is a big problem with hunters. Because it used to be easy when they were big agricultural areas, when it was all worked out, then the hunt was richer and it was easier for hunters. However, today, in conditions where practically all the forest is in large part of the Dalmatian mountain, it is very difficult to implement the hunting grounds. Hunters sow themselves, now and thus try to preserve game and help the development of savages. However, the problem of abandoned large areas is also a big problem for hunters. Thus, the ministry should also see a way through European funds, along with hunting associations and hunting alliances, to find ways to create a good programme where it would try to solve the problem. This is a problem for both firefighters and hunters, because these large abandoned surfaces are everyone's problem. So European funds are certainly one way to get some of the funds out and find the right purpose in this. We must surely find a way to help hunters, to simplify things. Here we had debates at the Parliament through past changes and additions to the Law of Hunting of Radical Things to ban weapons, that weapons are dangerous, that accidents, incidents happen and that hunters should be banned. I belong to a group of those who are sure to encourage and appeal to both the ministry and the legislator to help the new Hunting Law help hunters, find ways to further develop hunting in Croatia and remain in line with the countries that have the best developed hunting in this part of Europe. Here in this sense, and I encourage you to encourage you to adopt a new Hunting Law as soon as possible so that all these problems can be resolved through this law, and if not all normally, then there is a large part of these problems and thus help Croatian hunting and all those involved in hunting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40092	Thank you very much. And we have a few replicas for your exposure. First, it's the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Sanader. I agree with this part of you that you were talking about that hunters are really in one difficult position. Here I am as the head of the local self-government unit constantly communicating with all associations, and among other things with hunters and what they are constantly putting under the biggest problem, these are actually the damages that are happening on the roads. We know that all that happens inside the hunting grounds, and within the hunting grounds are certain roads that are regional, municipal or any, all the damages that occur on those roads are responsible for hunting society. How to do something about it so that these hunting societies don't respond to all the damage that has been done. And we need to know that even insurance got very easy and nice out of all that together. And not only the damage to traffic accidents, but also the damage to crops. All crop damages are equally consistent with hunting societies. And they have a problem, insurance companies don't want to secure crops anymore because they know it's big damage and there's hunters in trouble. In any case, the law should allow hunters to continue to act because we know that hunters are not only those who walk around with a rifle and kill animals, but rather, I think that they are literally taking care of animals, of nature, they need to be helped, but find in one sense the right measure not to endanger insurance companies, of covering both cars and crops without our hunting societies falling apart. That's where we need to find a measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40094	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed representative, Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40095	Thanks, buddy. You have seen that you are the leader of local self-government and that you know this problem well and that is a serious big problem that must be tackled jointly by local administrations, counties, states and hunting societies. Hunting societies are certainly the weakest, but what stands out for hunting grounds and leases should be directed. It is directed back, but it must be seen by common means to find a way to address this issue of damage if it cannot be brought to any of these sides. But all together must participate in this, I don't know the state in co-financing policies, as well as local, regional administration and hunters. It's not easy on the county roads either, you know, if I know there's a tree on the vehicle in Split, the driver got killed, and then they accused the county roads. County roads have neither the capacity nor the financial ability to control all the trees along roads, especially a large part of the roads passing through some of our karst areas where these trees are and on those weather conditions when the big winds are in our barrels then the fall of these trees is easy and these are major problems. So none of the parties can certainly solve this problem on their own, but we must look at this problem through the new law in our own seriousness and find ways to co-finance together and thus solve this problem. No one, no state has the strength, because it's huge damages and neither are individuals. We need to make sure there is no damage, but when it does, then everything must be intervened and co-financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40096	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40097	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Sanader, you were also a longtime mayor, a county councilman and you well know the problem means Dalmatian Burn, a hunting problem, and you said that the lack of funds in the county is mainly in damages and that hunters can't do everything, and that these are people who give up and volunteer their work by investing in those areas that have been forgotten mainly in the part of the Dalmatian mountain where I come from. So you've noticed it well and you should've fought it out and we need to fight for more funding and decentralisation of funds towards the county. It would have been a lot better if we'd channeled those funds where we needed them than if we'd made a way out for Wolfie on the highway. This is one pointless investment because unfortunately, if it had been invested in these things, if it had been preserved hunting grounds, economic progress, tourism progress then we wouldn't be getting a bell in these villages and a mail wolf wearing it. There are simply no more people and we have made a way out of the highway to Vukevic because there was a former prime minister of kin, Mr. Sanader. So it's the county that has to fight for decentralised resources to protect these areas and our hunters and that we have damages for both our farmers and our crops. But they were investments to pass on to the prime minister, it was made, then, to Sanader, that made a way out for Vukevic. No residents, unfortunately. There's the county that regulator because we don't have the County Home and then we'd have these opportunities for our people to deal with tourism and hunt, these things to commercialize, to survive these areas. So the county needs to do it and fight. You've been mayor and mayor of the county for years and you've been mayor for several terms, and you know that it wasn't enough to channel the funds where it was supposed to be, but mostly according to the advocacy, and mostly in this case to Prime Minister Sanader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40098	The answer of the esteemed member of Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40099	So, Mr. Buddy, Reverend Bull, I'm a child of Zagor, just like you and what's a long time ago, I'm not going to give myself up in the love and struggle for that Zagora of ours. Clearly, the funds are always small and expensive with you and with all MPs I will fight always for more of our Zagor's resources, not populist but what is real and what is possible to work on the development of Zagor. What you're mentioning is a wolf's knot isn't designed for Prime Minister Sanader to go to his hometown because he was neither born there nor there what he has. I fought for the exit of the Vučevica and I consider it my project because this is exactly what you deny yourself, on the one hand you say you should fight for Zagora, and secondly, you would like, means that this highway passes through Zagora and that we as natives just watch the road and traffic of vehicles on that road and admire how beautiful vehicles pass there. I didn't agree to that. I didn't agree with that, Mr. Bulj, and that's exactly why I urged to build a wolf's knot because the wolf's knot between Prgomet and Dugopolje is 30 km away, and the profession justifies that half a mile away makes a knot. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] With that knot is 500 acres of land on a stone, social land. For 50 acres we've already got from past governments property and designed an area where development can go. There's a tunnel going through Kozjak from that zone. So she has her full justification and she can develop that part of Zagor. And it certainly has its absolute justification and it will show the time that is coming. And don't attack projects in Zagora, but we should be proud of every project that is in Zagora and that can bring about the development of Zagora and this one will surely bring it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40100	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you said in your debate that it is necessary for the county to be capacitated in order to monitor the system of awarding concessions, that is, everything that relates to hunting itself. My question is actually where local self-government units are, or municipalities and cities. Because municipalities and cities have absolutely no influence on the award of concessions or on the money from concessions. And where is it, where are the private forest owners, or forest plots? Neither they influence concessions, nor they have any compensation from those concessions. Furthermore, a very classic example of how units of local self-government have no influence on hunting and implementation of hunting systems is that, let's say, on Saturdays, Sundays, weekends, you on mountain trails, on cycling trails, you walk with Nordic bats and a hunter shoots you because you're being replaced by a deer or some tall game. I think that actually municipalities and cities are excluded from that system and that it is very unfair because the environment is not just an environment for biodiversity. The environment is also a resource and a legitimate resource for the people who live there. So let's include those people who live there, so into that system that they're part of that story too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40102	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed member of Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40103	All counties shall grant concessions or leases in those areas. However, they are included through hunting societies mainly in municipalities and cities and as associations of a city and municipalities, they participate in the work of the local self-government unit. And these are the problems you were talking about, so these woods roads, problems, savages, forest hunter. Unfortunately, some hunting grounds are too close to populated areas, but it stands but it's the responsibility of hunting associations. And they through their study of hunting economic foundations show and give a program of how they behave in some part of where hunting is directed, the hunter cares about it, the hunter directs the hunt, the hunt is too serious. So he doesn't know that there's a lot of cases that a walker can usually meet with hunters, then that means it's not well done in some area, or that hunter or tenant is doing his job badly, there must be such examples, but mostly hunters are disciplined military and function as one disciplinary system where there shouldn't be such ones and where there are no such events.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40104	Thank you very much. And the last individual debate of the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have heard a lot of debates today, most of them related to certain situations that are happening, whether in hunting societies I have given local self-government units whether or not insurance companies want something or do not want to secure it, and I am here today because I have a duty as chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature to react and to say that as a society, as a country, I should discuss that the Hunting Law is being put into the function of preserving and protecting the environment and nature, or preserving certain animal species, and that is what makes me unsatisfactory about the current law. Of course, the Hunting and Hunting Act is an economic activity, a lot of people come to the Republic of Croatia and because of it and it is one passion and love for, I would say, a certain hunting activity, but on the other hand it must be in the function and nature of the conservation of the environment, although it sometimes sounds contradictory to one another, but we must put it in that function. There are very many animal species, especially birds that are prior to extinction in Croatia, this legislator does not notice at all, nor does he react, the law is enough, I would say, ineffective, tied up in poaching, quite often happening under those who have permission and who maintain certain hunting grounds and what I would appeal here, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, that after 2005, when the new law was written, some countries that deal with environmental protection a little more and nature, and animal species, changed the laws several times and essentially. So it's not a question from today to tomorrow, it's not a question of one provision of law that will say that we protect and not disturb animals that are with youngsters, which have laid eggs, or something else, but it's a matter of one systematic approach, I said, conservation and nature and flora and fauna, and that is how our law must define it. I'm not happy when I see, and I read very carefully, and I'm surprised how many people who have made efforts in this area, for example the Croatian Society for the Protection of Birds and Nature, who wrote 16 pages of the text very when a man reads, concisely, with sources, statistics, with certain things, so that the promoter, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, will not be accepted because the remarks here say "application" and it's written on page 16, so there's a whole series, this could be subdued by some even masters, it's not exactly a doctorate, but people have really given themselves the effort. So the remark is unargumented, full of subjective and offensive tones and statements. Without this public debate being measured, and I think that officials can do it in the ministry, if someone writes that according to certain statistics and assessments of the levels of Croatian hunting below the EU average, then a lot of it must be disproved, then it cannot be done in this way with people who have obviously given themselves the effort not because of their own personal interest because there are quite often people who know to say they have some interest there. These are obviously activists, people who want to protect flora and fauna, and who are part of the effort and who are dealing with it out of love, so there are no too many material benefits here but really want to deal with Croatia's protection of its natural species and put an emphasis on it and I'm taking a deep stand, that it should be a debate, and I would say, the scale of the debate on the Hunting Law. And that is why I call for the new Hunting Act to be adopted as soon as possible, this one is not adequate, you can see by a million arguments presented here, or a lot of arguments, that there is room for promotion and that Croatia finally adopts those standards, rather than going from the situation to the situation, then puts something on, doesn't put anything. It disgusted me, for example, when I read that some species are still, that they are allowed to fish and that they are practically ahead of extinction or that there is a possibility that Croatia will not have some birds very soon anymore, and it is still possible to hunt them in certain hunting grounds. So we are dealing, essentially, with topics that I think Croatia should deal with as a developed society, not all of us should be aware of the jumping of game on the road, the destruction of crops, of course it is important, economic activity to come to the Italians and shoot trophies here, and pay a large amount in our hunting grounds, all of it is good, but what I would like to highlight as most important is that we put this law into the function of preserving flora and fauna, especially wild, because what I think is still not perceived enough in Croatia and that it is not put into that focus that it should be. That, in the end, our Hunting Law does not come down just after whether someone will be able to arrange a hunt or whether something economic will be earned or not. So, much more important, and if you want the economic and material focus should be on keeping our natural resources, nature, and unfortunately, I have a feeling that in Croatia the only hunting that is in the focus of this government is the hunting of individual representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This is the only thing that interests the HDZ or this government to catch a single representative or representative. Of course, that's where I speak figuratively, there's no physical hunting. This is more about material or interesting money. But as we have seen in recent days and weeks, this interesting material hunt has been quite effective, but unfortunately it is not regulated by law, and we should derivate that hunt by law so that such a hunt no longer happens to us in the future. So people are not satisfied that the hunter Plenkovic is hunting representatives from other parties to survive in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40106	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. Here is the first honourable representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Maras, you applauded in this debate that you should base as much on the protection of flora and fauna as you can through hunting. Namely, I want to introduce you to the hunting associations, which as well as the hunters in the form of companies who are aware of how to protect the environment and how to put flora and fauna into a normal relationship. So a series of actions that have been cleaned out of your wild dumps in community with local self-government, with utility companies have been carried out by hunting associations as well as hunters to everyone's goal is to have a nice neat clean hunting ground, so that guests who come have fun in nature, not to come to wild dumps and dumps. That's one thing. The second thing in this debate is about those things that change in the law and which should contribute and the future that should be passed through the Hunting Law, which concerns insurance. In fact, insurance is so terrible and rigorous that they exhaust all hunting associations and hunters as merchants and those you pay the insurance which year, so the second year you raise the premium and it goes on forever. Therefore, some synergy in the community with local self-governments, county offices and states and roads should find common language to protect these hunting associations that I have already said already have too many annual memberships, and with all the obligations they have to make. But that this economic activity is certain that, because in most of our counties the largest number of nights are achieved through hunting tourism as well as the revenues from hunting tourism are generous and certainly welcome. In the new law, I believe that we will find a common language to contribute to making it even better and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40108	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40109	Thank you very much. I don't mind helping hunting associations. I think they're mostly enthusiasts, nature lovers. Although this passion for hunting is, of course, present. But what I'm worried about and what I've been discussing here, because we don't even focus on protecting nature and protecting our species. So we haven't heard that debate at all. I said this is to say two directives and several provisions of the laws that speak of animal harassment during the reproductive process. And on that side, I'm not satisfied because the law doesn't change completely in the direction I said in my debate. For example, in Croatia, we have a very inefficient or almost inefficient system of catch control. So who's in control here? They control those who I would say have certain concessions and I think that there should be a little more attention by the state, because I am sure that with those honest people who deal with hunting and hunting societies out of love for nature there are those who are less honorable and who use certain situations that should not be used. It's so everywhere, and so is hunting. The only problem is that the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Department of Hunting at the Ministry of Agriculture, has no effective control of what is happening on the ground. He's relying too much on the situation that he is, which, in my opinion, is not good at some things. Since we have no control, then we have a lot of poaching and sometimes, unfortunately, from those who have an obligation to control the situation. So I'd ask here and the ministry would move there a little bit in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40110	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I agree with you when you say this law is not well done. He's more cosmetically done and that's why I'd like to appeal to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture here, and when we're doing laws, let's literally include all those concerned by these laws, which are above all here's hunting association, they're units of local self-government. It means municipalities and cities, but also counties that play a very important role in all this together, but try and include insurance houses because we have now come together to the conclusion that insurance houses are doing a literally big mess here. But when we talk about hunting, then clearly we must talk about nature protection as well as about the economic branch. Namely, I'll point out that hunting is literally one big and important business branch. Here I have the information that in Slovenia from continental tourism one large, significant part actually refers to hunting. Who doesn't know Slovenia does 1/3 of continental tourism compared to Croatia with I don't know 20, 30 kilometers more, less even though it's negligible, and that large part of continental tourism is clear spas and hunting tourism and it needs to be seen as a serious business branch and therefore here's the Ministry of Agriculture should include as much as possible all those who can help and in the Hunting Law need a lot more provisions and realize that the ministry is not only going to determine the law, but literally include all units of local self-government and the Ministry of Tourism, but also local associations and insurance houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40112	The answer to the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40113	Thank you very much, colleague Prelec. You mentioned now what I was saying, about making a new law, but what I specifically pointed out, and I want it very clearly said here, that, with all the ones you listed in the draft law, involved the NGO sector. So we're neglecting the scientific community, we're neglecting university experts, we're neglecting people who are dealing with this and as scientists and as lovers of nature and flora and fauna, and if insurance companies should be involved in this whole story, of course they should, because obvious problems are emerging on the ground, but I think they should primarily include these parts that are almost not consulted at all. Because if you have 15 pages, if someone makes the effort, please read, it's very instructive of these 15 pages that people have written from the Birds and Nature Association, read to answer them with one sentence, that it's all expensive and unresonated, I don't think they deserve, but only someone who's given it so much effort, when he's got all these sources, when he's given some information that's exact, then he deserves an argumental acceptance or non-acceptation of his proposals. And that's what, let's say, the responsible state administration, I would not allow that kind of response to consultation with the interested public right now, because it's a very clear message. Write whatever you want, we'll answer you anything. Why would someone in another law now have a general need to write again if they tried, and it was not accepted because of what they say is unargumented, subjectively offensive tones and that point. There's nothing left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40114	Thank you. The next replica is respected representatives of Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40115	Dear colleague Maras. I'd just like to use it as a replica to ask if you're familiar with one of the activities done by Bear Hunter's, which numbers 1400 members and asks for the apriors to get rid of a razor wire that has such a bad effect on all of our savages, who had to go through there and they've really made an appeal and they've organized one action in the third month and they're planning three more and they're saying that the action is to point out the problem of stopped migration of the cut roads that the savage has been communicating for centuries, which enables the spread of populations on both sides, strengthening populations, their survival and easier search for food, etc. They've gathered together, it's a large association, 1400 hunters, and they want to point out that it's an even bigger problem, because that razor wire has now grown into vegetation, even less recognized, specifically seeking its removal, finding another solution to prevent migration. Migration can't be prevented because with a couple of boards and a few trees, it can be prevented, but animals are hard to suffer both tiny and large game and say that they are proposed to place scares on both sides, that at least now they are removed from these veins of wire, to set up something that would either light or sound warning animals, because what they see there and those people who live along that razor wire, say it's actually terrible at night to listen to the torments of those animals that actually suffer, and migrants find their own paths. It's an association of 1400 people, they've already made a few appeals and they're trying to point out that. We need to find a solution to that razor wire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40116	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Strenja. That's the problem that came up right at the beginning, I wouldn't say solving the problem of migration, because it's unacceptable and non-European behavior for me. Putting wires on borders and especially a razor wire on borders between states is not an honor to those countries that have reached out for this solution. Croatia is not such a country, Croatia will not, I hope will and will never have such a solution in the future. And as far as animals are concerned, that problem was, at the time, also publicly highlighted, but it was done a little bit, almost nothing. It fell into another plan and nothing's solved. I agree with you that if we can't move the wire, and obviously we can't, because if we could, then we'd probably agree with those countries that have a lot of open issues with us, so a little bit of a mech is blackmailing us about some things, so they're acting a little bit like, I'd say countries on the edge of European standards like the Republic of Hungary. If it can't be solved already, then our country should organise what you said, set up scarecrows and surprise me, again I'm surprised that no one is reacting by the Ministry of Agriculture, because they're probably not aware of how much this problem is created, not only by people who live there, but how potentially it creates problems for future and animal migrations and the development of the animal world in the Republic of Hungary, but I hope that they will understand very quickly, that the means will then, for the next year, be resolved or agreed with their friends, is obviously HDZ in good relations with the authorities in Hungary, so that these things are corrected and removed because there is no reason between the two countries p, there are wires, fences that they share, and not that promote European values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40118	Thank you. The word will now be taken on behalf of the motionary, the distinguished State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Ms. Marija Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciable MPs and respected MPs. First of all, I would like to thank everyone who participated in this debate on behalf of the promoters, which will be an important incentive for making and adopting as high-quality, complete Hunting Act as soon as possible after the electronic consultation is completed. I will briefly repeat that these amendments to the law began last year, so for certain reasons that you know about as well as I have not been adopted in time and should have been removed from the violation of European law which was initiated after the unremoved eu pilot in 2016. The law amends four articles, Articles 2, 52, 83 and 97. In Article 2, the sentence of Article 2 of the '92 EU Directive on the protection of natural habitats and wild flora and fauna is replaced by the following: the 2009 Wildbird Conservation Directive. The request for provisions relating to the prohibition of hunting for feathered game during the different stages of reproduction and during the time of rearing of cubs, as well as migrant savages during the different stages of reproduction and during their return to the areas in which the cubs are raised, shall then be transposed in Article 52. Article 83 was also confirmed by the repealed paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Law, as has already been said these items have been abolished by the Constitutional Court ruling. I fully respect all the objections made to this solution today, but the issue of proportionality that the Constitutional Court has raised cannot be resolved by the proposed amendment to these amendments to Article 83 but only by the full amendments to the Hunting Law. So I ask you to respect this, too. Once again, I thank everyone for the debate that should also contribute to a better valorisation of the work of hunting societies and associations. It is also better and better-quality to address the issue of poaching which today, according to the applicable law, solve hunting services, which are organised by poachers and, of course, better at developing the potential of hunting tourism, as well as many other issues that you have discussed here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40120	Thank you very much. We have a replica of your exposure, the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear secretary. Today's law is essentially what has been mentioned in Croatian laws since 1839, so you have only brought this law into line with the EU directive. Absolutely this law does not have any additional changes except what we all know and what all hunters should be obeyed by regulations and laws so far. So nothing special about this law that you just said was done. ...you are expected to have a law that protects both game and protect hunters from poachers, protect people from harm, that is expected of you to be done concisely. With this law, everything you have said, there has been no effort done here, but what we have developed, the EU directive. So I'd ask you to do a law as soon as possible to protect hunters from poachers, to protect gamemen from poachers and to protect our citizens from harm on roads in traffic or to farmers, it's expected of you. Not only wait for the EU to prescribe directives, but in fact, since 1839, it has been in this area in law, as has been changed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40122	The Honorable Maria Vukkovic, the State Secretary, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40123	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you, too, to the esteemed representative of Bulju, for the question or the replica. I'm sorry if I said something wrong or if I didn't make myself clear. So at the beginning of my final presentation, I said what is changing, which are four articles for which I thanked the existing Hunting Law and all the open topics that are an element for making the new whole Hunting Act better. If I wasn't clear enough, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40124	Thank you very much. With that, we could conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Since it is 13.20 we will not start with the next point but we will take a break normally until 15.00 hours, and then we will continue with the proposal for a decision to declare Croatia's day of awareness of the thickness. It's 13,21 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40125	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Hunting Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 87, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. The amendment was submitted by MP Domagoj Hajduković, I would like to ask the proposing representative to show about the amendment submitted, with us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture Marija Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40126	... The Croatian Parliament, an amendment was tabled by MPs Domagoj Hajduković, cannot be accepted, since the Constitutional Court's ruling, paragraphs 3 and 4 of Articles 83 have been abolished since 15 June 2016. [[Specially enabled.]] Hunting law. In this way, the responsibility for damage has ceased to vary depending on whether the wild game or the occasional wild game has been kept in place, so that there is no longer a foundation, there is a difference, it is not in paragraphs 1 and 2. The Constitutional Court also confirmed the law of the Republic of Croatia, the legal interest in mixing the property rights of the poachers with regard to liability for damages, and the balance sought between the poachers and the land users, i.e. between the damages, is now regulated by the application of the provisions of Article 77, which previously could not have been applied precisely to the non-permanent, or occasional inhabited game.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40127	Thank you. Dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, the intention of this amendment, as I have said, is primarily to help our poachers, in this case, these are hunting societies throughout Croatia, which at this point are facing, with a great problem of compensation that they pay for both traffic accidents and damage to crops and all other damages. In this case, poachers must pay compensation for a game for which they do not have a licence, or have no concession on it, it is the so-called migrant game or game that changes its residence, that is, on occasion, on certain hunting grounds. Since they do not have permission for economic, for the management of the economic expansion of game, it is unfair for them to bear costs for the same. In this way, this amendment would help many poachers who are still struggling with this problem today, as the damage from savages is enormous and that many hunting societies cannot handle it, since in larger cases, hunters are just hunting societies. If we take into account that many hunting societies, due to this precisely due to the pre-execution, that their role and economy is both ecological and social, then I think it is irresponsible for this government to refuse this amendment, the more we already have a fire that burns, so hunting societies that are about to be shut down, this wouldn't solve the problem in the end, but at least it would be a drop on this fire that would help these hunting societies. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40129	Thank you. So I am voting on amendments that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not passed. 73 votes against and 40 votes to, and 3 votes abstentioned. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Hunting Law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 82 votes for, 33 abstentions and 2 votes against, the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Hunting Law was passed. Well, the secretary of state survived.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40130	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Just for information today, we'll do two more points on the agenda. Therefore, the proposal for a decision to declare the Croatian Day of Depth awareness and the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine on Cooperation in the area of disaster prevention and the elimination of their consequences. So we move to the point of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision to declare the day of awareness of obesity; it is proposed by the Committee on Health and Social Policy, on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes, the government delivered opinions. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation. Is it possible that the proposaler's representative would like to give an additional explanation? Here you are, dear colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40131	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's a few words, given the proposal this day, which is actually very important, very important and whose request we have already had during the two sessions of the Parliament, and somehow this point never came to the agenda of the plenary session. And today I will finally explain that, on March 16th, on the Croatian day of awareness of obesity, the Republic of Croatia joins the EU countries, but also the worlds that are the problem of obesity, or the pandemic of obesity called Globesti, as a serious public health problem, and this monster of modern lifestyle strives to address the systemic multidisciplinary approach. So in more than 95% of cases, obesity is a lifestyle disease or modern civilization disease. Only one to 2% of patients were caused by uncontrolled over-indication of food and in less than 5% of patients may cause genetic, endocrine or metabolic disease. To speed up information and globalisation, they have facilitated the rapid spread of the thicking lifestyle and the accompanying epidemics of thickness to the scale of today's pandemic. The lifestyle that causes major changes in diet, increased energy intake by food, decreased body activity and shortened sleep caused further discrepancies between input and energy consumption or small but over a long period of time uninterrupted intake of excess energy. It is known that thickness as a chronic disease is not only destroying the quality of life but also shortening life. And those in whom it lasts from childhood reduce the life expectancy of as many as 17 to 20 years. Elevated fat in the blood, impaired glucose tolerance, or diabetes, especially type 2 diabetes, and blood vessels, are just some of the complications and its treatment is not a risk factor for developing a whole series of other chronic non-infectious diseases. Particular attention should therefore be paid to prevention, diagnosis and treatment of obesity in children and adolescents because it can be expected that our children will live shorter than we do. In fact, there are currently more than 22 million children under the age of 5 who are overweight, and the World Health Organization estimates that by 2025. 50% of the world's population to be fat. According to a study on student health behaviour, Health behaviour in school age children for 2016 conducted in more than 40 countries and regions of Europe and the world including Croatia at the age of 11 we are in 10 countries have more students and pupils with overweight than in Croatia. The proportion of students in the Republic of Croatia with a body mass index greater than the value of the arithmetical environment increased by one standard deviation, which is that body mass index dropped from 33% in 11-year-olds to 27% in 13-year-olds, to 24% in 15-year-olds, while the student fell significantly from 20% up to 11 years of age, over 14% aged 13 years and 9% at 15 years of age. According to the Global Status Report of noncommunicable diseases, the World Health Organization, which said for 2014 the estimated prevalence of persons aged 18 and older in the Republic of Croatia is... Thus, while respecting all of the above, the Republic of Croatia recognised the size and severity of the problem of thickness, the consequences of these ways that could affect its reduction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The solution of obesity is not in treatment but in prevention, helping to raise awareness of the public, education on proper nutrition and physical activity from the earliest days. The marking of Croatia's awareness day on March 16th should therefore be one of the contributions of the impact on its reduction to improve health, prevent diseases and raise the quality and length of life of all of us especially young generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40132	Thank you. Dear colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. We have one replica, dear colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40133	Here's a thank you. I welcome the announcement of the Croatian Day of Enlightenment of Fatty. Some will say he's had too many national days but I think that's good. Dr Strenja-Linić pointed out that in the vast majority of cases the obesity of life-style diseases is, however, there we should be careful, namely, threatened persons are often exposed to Stigmatisation and prejudice and very often face problems that affect all the pores of their functioning. What is very interesting, therefore, is that the social community is very clear and freely expressing its prejudices towards the threatened persons, unfortunately it is also present in health institutions, so if we look at the overweight students, too, so that attention should be paid, therefore there is a disturbance in the perception of their own body and, of course, among young people and adolescents who have threatened, there should be special attention given to their mental health, so regardless of what is largely the consequence of the lifestyle, and therefore it is important that prevention and education, we should not interfere with either this fact or this fact, and I hope that one of the future national days of awareness of the thickness in the Republic will be on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40134	I thank my esteemed colleague. Reply Dear colleague Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40135	Well, thank you fellow, given what you're dealing with, I'd turn to another problem, which is that, in fact, there are various forms of depressed actually in one mood, and a depressing disorder that is also a significant problem, and it creates one closed circle in that population, and so that's one very important problem that happens today in the world and today presents itself to the World Health Organization, depression is the fourth biggest global health problem and by 2020 there will be another leading. So all of this changes, and all of this should be taken into account when accessing this population, especially children and adolescents, and that all means one complex story that needs to be covered by a healthy life, and I will discuss it later in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40136	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić for his reply and for his further explanation. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. We move to debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, a distinguished colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40137	I thank the chairman. Here I am liked this subject, a little awkward for me, but here I would like to say something not only about the problem but about something else that's connected to it. So as the struggle with the malnutrition of third-world residents continues, in the Western world, especially in urban environments, the thickness really takes a wide scale. A few years ago, according to some data, for the first time in mankind’s history, the number of overweight people surpassed the number of hungry people in the world. So today we are talking about a double problem at global level, but also about obesity as a leading disease that is a risk for the development of other chronic non-infectious diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, etc. Unfortunately, although most people worry about aesthetic reasons, obesity is primarily a public health problem. Therefore, direct and indirect costs of treating obesity complications are a great burden for both budgets and better health systems than we are. So, the fact is, twice the number of people with world thickness compared to 1980, more than 1.9 billion adults are currently overweight, i.e. 600 million adults with obesity in 2014 as it is said for that year. Therefore, environmental and social changes are linked to accelerated, and sometimes insufficiently supporting policy development in many sectors such as health, agriculture, transport, environmental, food, education, resulting in the creation of food habits that include fast, easy availability of food, whose caloric value exceeds the nutritional, seating lifestyle that leads to a reduction in physical activity and are the main causes of increasing the body weight that leads to and in excess of body weight and thickness. A particular problem today is the obesity in children but also the challenge, associated with increased risk of obesity, reduced life expectancy, and disability in adulthood, but also with an increased risk of orthopaedic diseases, means locomotor system diseases, hypertension, development of cardiovascular diseases, early signs for the development of diabetes, and psychological consequences as I have already said in childhood. But I only want two words about chronic non-infectious diseases because this is part of it. So, chronic non-infectious diseases today are the problem, such as in the history of infectious disease, today are chronic non-infectious diseases, the public health problem of all developed countries of the world, and according to the causes of cardiovascular mortality are at first and malignant diseases elsewhere. So chronic non-infectious diseases are a priority health problem today, demographic trends with an increasing number of older people, and a modern lifestyle marked by mechanization, automation of work processes and computerisation with increasing physical burdens at work, led to a pandemic of chronic non-infectious diseases. Just to clarify, so chronic non-infectious diseases are cardiovascular, malignant diseases, chronic non-infectious respiratory diseases, so respiratory organs, diabetes, locomotor system diseases. This isn't a medical lecture, it's just that you know this term of chronic non-infectious disease that actually has an impact on many aspects of our lives. And the risk factors for these chronic non-infectious diseases are smoking, increased blood pressure, increased fat, alcohol, overweight, malnutrition because we also have anorexia in that story, and physical inactivity. The population of Croatia, therefore, has completed its demographic transition and is now being included in the old population with a higher share of the population over 65 years old. Trends therefore point to a poor state of demographic health which poses a significant challenge for the sustainable development of society as a whole, but also for the health system itself, which will have to respond to the health needs of an increasing number of older people. Risk factors that change life’s habits include smoking, malnutrition, and lack of physical activity. All studies suggest that two thirds of the reduction in mortality from heart and blood vessels disease, especially heart and stroke, which have been achieved can be attributed to the reduction of the above mentioned risk factors and to the appropriate control of elevated blood pressure, and only 1/3 to the improvement of diagnostic therapeutic and rehabilitation procedures. Therefore, health promotion activities affecting these factors are of particular importance for improving the health status of the population in our country. So, in addition to all this, I think that international bodies absolutely need to be involved, the agencies use means all their available information, professional NGOs organisations. But I would especially like to say today that a very good project called "Living Healthy" has started in Croatia today. Therefore, the National Programme "Living Healthy" which managed to withdraw 30 million kuna from the European Social Fund and was developed as a programme to promote and improve the health of the population of the Republic of Croatia by promoting proper nutrition and physical activity with the aim of preventing excessive weight and thickness, and preserving mental and sexual health in different environments is the goal of this programme. The holder is the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute of Public Health, and the performers are the Croatian Institute for Public Health, County Institutes for Public Health, NGOs and with this topic we actually had here in the Parliament on 14 February and the thematic session at which they were all present. And that program actually started and presented to the public. It has several modules aimed at improving the health of the entire population, as it is working in the local community to inform, educate and sensitise citizens of all age groups on the positive aspects of healthy life. So there are these components of health education, health tourism, health and nutrition where there is actually a special emphasis on the correct diet program in schools where we can practically no longer see those machines where kids could take all those candy that have been installed in schools, which has already come out of many schools in the West. Health and workplace, health and the environment. Therefore, the target population of the national programme is both children and young people, middle and older people, generally persons with increased bivioral and biomedical risk factors. Therefore, the expected result of this National Programme "Living Healthy" is the sensitisation of citizens about the need to preserve health, to change variable bad habits, to reduce the pain of chronic non-infectious diseases and to increase the proportion of healthy citizens in the overall population. So it's not like we didn't do anything. For years, teaching institutions for public health, county and city care have done everything within their abilities and capabilities, but with this programme that has started as a national programme. I hope we have a shift on this one, too, to reduce especially children and adolescents with obesity. And this day that we proposed as a board and I here on behalf of the club, I support it. I think it will help to realize how important this is for the health of all our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40138	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a esteemed colleague Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Strenja-Linić. I do welcome the decision, though. In any case, however, I think it is worth noting, and with a very, very lot of outcry, that the thickness is not a shame and that no one should feel bad about it, and don't let God feel bad, but above all, that is the health problem of a modern society that should be affected by both prevention and education and the change of lifestyle and life habits. Like the fat one's problem, the problem is the big problem of making fun of it. And it's a shame, not a fat one. I believe that education should primarily take place on children's education, to refrain from adjectives fat and fat because it is an insult that affects someone at least with reduced self-esteem, and ultimately there are those examples that you mentioned by Mrs Strenja-Linić, which are anorexia, bulimia and ultimately death. And since I worked for 12 years in the education process, I think you know very well what our students' eating habits are, what they eat, what they want to eat and what they prefer. And when they were told to go to field school with me, but they only ate nettles, cabbages and sausages, then the answer to any child at the level of a saying that they wanted it well, and the rabbit would have 100 kilos. And that's our phraseology, our heritage that reflects the truth of our old. And that is indeed the truth of our old and our ancestors. However, the difference is that they're picturesquely going to express themselves as a hack, and most of today's society doesn't. So it's really about the imbalance of what's being introduced and what's being spent. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40140	I thank my esteemed colleague Majdi Buric. Let's go to the next line, dear colleague Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40141	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Strenja-Linić, we've talked a lot about this on the Health Committee. So we had several sessions that kind of covered this topic and what is therefore devastating in the Republic of Croatia, so that only 36% of the population of the Republic of Croatia rarely engages in any physical activity, 29% are involved in activities, and only 9% of the population is regularly engaged in sports activities. When we pass on it, then the children are still vulnerable to data. But what you mentioned, which is therefore a systematic practice and a systematic approach to sports. That's what we talked about and code, so the Croatian Olympic Committee reports. And I personally believe that the Croatian Olympic Committee is extremely ignoring that part, that segment of children in sports. So our Croatian Olympic Board deals with top athletes, while you get to the top sport it's one big procedure, and these top athletes in the Republic don't have that much. So, what I think is that we should all work together to be more involved in mass amateur sport, which would include a number of children, not just top-notch sports, and I would like to stress that it's extremely difficult to deal with sports in smaller rural areas, in islands, where the shortages of halls and all of those things that are needed to deal with sports, the lack of personnel that would be involved in children, and we all know that actually this activity and this acquisition of that habit actually starts at the earliest age. And for the truth, I think that in the next passing of any law and strategy, we need to take great care of where and when our children start to play sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40142	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ani Comparić Devcic, on the line. We're entering the next line. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues Strenja-Linić, you commended the Ministry of Health initiative, to live a healthy life which in some ways contributes, among other things, to reducing or suppressing this great problem faced not only by the Republic of Croatia but also by the modern world, which is an unbalanced diet, and then leads to obesity and difficult health problems. What I would not like to rephrase to you, since I am not a doctor or expert on this problem, however, from the aspect of a person who knows something about the education system, I would only like to complete that if we had made certain steps in that part. By introducing health education, not necessarily as a mandatory subject, but as an inter-species subject, we have allowed children to learn how to live healthy, learn about healthy nutrition and the importance of physical activity that should become an integral part of their lives, without a tendency to achieve some top-notch and professional results. On the other hand, the efforts of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports have led to the fact that in those schools where there is no food provided, and we know that we have such schools, but also in those schools where we are able, free of charge for parents and children, using the European Social Fund, to provide every child with a minimum in schools, which is that school fruit scheme project, so through fruit. Unfortunately, not all directors have shown the willingness to participate in the project itself, but I believe that with time moving along, we will understand that all benefits can be realised in a free way without investing resources from the holding budget will be provided to the children with one fruit, which is not only fruit because they may be hungry, but pure creation of healthy habits, why it is important to bring healthy intentions into their own organism.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40144	I thank my dear colleague Sabina the Voice. The reply of the esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40145	In fact, this is not only a question of the health departments, health care professionals, but also of all educational staff, who should actually be actively involved in this whole story and in fact, you mentioned health education, absolutely, health care, radio bogeyman, and health care education actually includes this part, means proper nutrition, healthy life habits, all that is in line with a certain age of children. These kids, they're gonna get through that health education. And this is one of the important topics that we're actually learning from them from the earliest days. So I hope that health care education will not only be an election subject, but it will be a regular subject and that we will end up with a cartoon reform at the end and end up with this story and say that it is something that needs to be in schools and is appropriate depending on age and depending on the subject that has to be processed, these children will also get the right information at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40146	I thank you for your response to my distinguished colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the first thing I'm saying is that the HDZ Club will support the decision to declare March 16th on the day of awareness of the thickness. Every day that is declared a national day, in my personal opinion, and here we are in the club, for sure, great benefit. In fact, we have recently declared the National Day of People with intellectual difficulties and already the first year, here is when it began to mark itself, on that very day, people with intellectual difficulties warned in a special way about the problems they are facing. I believe it will be so with this national day, and that it will focus primarily on the prevention of excessive weight. It's a frightening fact that 22 million children in the world, under the age of 5, are struggling with overweight. According to the World Health Organization until 2025, 50% of the world's population should be fat. I think that whoever of us hears it is actually uncomfortable to hear it, so I believe we all support prevention, because prevention is actually what can help us all. When I think about knowing a lot of little kids who are just going to school or are elementary school kids, talking to their parents, we often talk about what these kids actually eat in the morning. Most often nothing, they usually eat only when they come to school, and then they usually eat something popular from the bakery, which is certainly not healthy. So here I was, a few days ago, very pleasantly surprised by one contribution, which presented how the Agricultural Payment Agency in cooperation with the OPGs from the Republic of Croatia and schools led to the delivery of even several schools with its products. So more than a hundred schools in the Republic of Croatia are thus getting fruit for their students and students during the week have secured one fruit meal. Completely safe health, proper nutrition and physical activity is health, so she mentioned a colleague of Strenja-Linić how important physical activity is, but here I also want to mention one commendable project. I know a gym teacher who doesn't teach physical education at school but teaches sports, so students can get involved in any sport. And at first I have to tell you when she started doing it, there were no interested children. She feared whether she would keep the job at all because it was a project-based job and it was a question of sustainability of the project, the number of children, how many children would report to sports activities, and her further work depended on it. As time went on, a growing number of children from that school and from some of the neighboring schools were involved in sports activities. So whatever action it is and whatever action we take, and in order to raise awareness of both the children and young people of the adolescent, it is certainly useful and commendable, and I think that this way we will succeed in reducing people who are overweight. What I would like to point out is that people with overweight account for a share of 508,000 people with disabilities. Unfortunately, with a number of illnesses listed by a colleague in the name of the applicant, one is due to excessive weight because joints are injured, hips are injured, spine injuries and disability occurs early retirement. This is certainly what we do not want to see happening in the Republic of Croatia because we want to have a healthy nation, and we have to think about it from the earliest childhood, I would say that first of all, we need to actively think about the family, which is how they feed their children, and then kindergartens and schools, etc. As I said before, prevention is the most important for all diseases and excessive weight. Prevention will certainly contribute to the awareness of obesity, as much action as possible, as many clubs and any stands, anything that would talk about excessive weight not as shame, but as something that will certainly lead to some disease that I trust is not in anyone's interest, but when we eat, we certainly don't think about it. Certainly diet and physical activity are essential in order to prevent excessive weight. When we talk about the way you eat, then I'd say it's important and many doctors talk about it, it's important how many times you eat a day. Because of our work, we eat fast, we eat once or twice a day, which is certainly not healthy. Eating takes at least four times a day in smaller quantities, four or more, but at least four times a day in smaller quantities. So it will certainly contribute to the result, certainly the organism will get used to such a diet and that is the health of every person. So, in any case, proper diet, physical activity, not by any means cutting black bread into thinner cherries. This cannot help us, and natural, properly grown products and physical activity and healthy nutrition will lead to fewer people with overweight problems in the Republic of Croatia. And I believe that our educations here are already being implemented, projects, educations, as well as such sessions as our colleague Linic mentioned what we had in the Health Committee will certainly help us to make our nation healthier on this issue as well. Once again, the HDZ club will support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40148	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40149	So here's when we talk about obesity, then I'd like to briefly look back on the topic of energy consumption. In fact, although on products, such products have small letters of recommendation for pregnant women, nursing mothers and children, this is a growing and larger problem. After it was found in Lithuania that a growing number of young people with psychotic episodes of Lithuania had and then Latvia banned the consumption of energy drinks in minors. So one can of energy drink contains 27 grams of sugar and 80 milligrams of caffeine, which certainly contributes to the development of obesity among young people. Hungary and France have introduced additional taxes on this. And if we have information, so almost 70% of adolescents and 20% of children consume high energy drinks are certainly responsible in the Republic to consider banning the use of energy drinks in minors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40150	I thank my esteemed colleague Ivan Celić for his replica. And the answer to my distinguished colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40151	Yeah, you're right. You're right. You're right. Equally so gassed drinks that are extremely harmful unfortunately for our young people, we all have a chance to see them, drink often an excessive amount of soda. Unfortunately, they also use energy drinks. And even when it's combined with alcohol, it can often be very fatal. And... I'm with you that you should think this through. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40152	I thank you for your response to my distinguished colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Ana Komaric Devcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, we colleagues all here when we talk and when we bring any national day on any subject, we all speak nicely and we all agree. And then when we make the calculations, the laws, then let's forget about the national days we've brought to this House. When it comes to diet among young people, then I want to point out a positive example. For example. There have been more than 10 years of menu-making in the city of Rijeka in kindergartens along with public health care. So public health and kindergarten bring together menus for children. And that menu doesn't contain any pâtés, no hot dogs, no veggies, no vegeta. Here's my co-worker, she's so-flying, it's true. So the menus are extremely healthy and children eat it, children eat for the truth. And what happens to us? We come to elementary school and we fall there, I have to admit, because there are no kitchens in elementary schools. So we don't have the capacity to continue the same diet in primary school. Children in primary school have no obligation to take a marenda at school which is also done in collaboration with public health but is no longer mandatory and then children go to these bakeries that you mentioned, and in fact there we fall into a healthy diet and continue to develop a healthy diet and awareness of children about what they eat. So after kindergarten, we fall. So what we need to do here is to think about our primary schools having to have a kitchen where the children will be preparing meals in cooperation with public health because otherwise none of them will. So we're gonna teach kindergarten kids what's healthy and then we're gonna fall in primary school and in high school I'm not even gonna talk and away from college, etc., we all know how it goes. Here's the truth I appeal to all of us that when we make a budget to think about such things, because I think we only think about when these days are brought in, or when they're passed, they declare national days of anything and then we fall into budgets and laws. Let's just forget everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40154	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40155	Well, colleagues, I agree with you that children should eat quality in kindergarten and school. I know a few schools that have their own kitchen, and I know a few schools that order food from the OPGs that are closest to them and so children don't eat hot dogs or pâtés or all those things that aren't healthy. But I can certainly agree with you that this is how you should eat all the children in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40156	I thank you for your response to my dear colleague Lukacic. Next to the replica was reported by distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40157	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Lukačić and I from HSS and I personally agree and support this idea of talking about the problem of obesity and of this public health problem and all that can do to us personally and overall, which has an impact on the health system in the Republic of Croatia on the increased number of patients and then expensive treatments and certainly should be talked about, not just one day, not just 16 March, but continuously, throughout the year and every day. And the data I came up with in my research suggests we're already late. Because in 2011, the Institute of Public Health of Croatia did research on 11 thousand children, where 24% of overweight were found to have children and 13% of fat children, while in 2003 it was 5% and 3%, respectively, with a tendency to further increase. So every day we need to talk about it and find solutions to increase awareness of it, in the need of quality healthy nutrition, to physical activities to provide institutional support to all those involved in the chain. You mentioned the OPGs and the supply of kindergartens, the milk and fruit schools, according to us from HSS, this is the way to do it in medical institutions, nursing homes and other institutions in this way to enable our agricultural products to be placed and that our children and adults know what they eat, the origin of that food, to be healthy food, and not as we now have the situation that we have organic products for shelves, and the inspection determines that the declaration or content does not correspond to what it says in the declaration. So let's do more ourselves to buy and eat Croatian than our OPGs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40158	I thank my esteemed colleague Davor Vlaovic. Answer, dear colleague Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40159	Well thank you fellow, yes, in principle I can agree with everything you said and it is true that this problem as well as all other problems should not be warned only one day a year, but that one day a year should be the day when some things might still be a little more talked about. Every year, a topic will be set, and a little more will be discussed, and the entire Croatian public will be informed. Of course, as far as this action is concerned, the paying agency in agriculture and school institutions, therefore primary and secondary schools, is in any case something that is excellent for the Republic of Croatia. Here's what I said. The project has been expanded only from primary and secondary schools, so that's how we get the O.P.G.s to sell their products, and we provide our children with healthy meals at school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40160	I thank you for your response to my distinguished colleague, Ljubica Lukacic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I must say that I will support the Club of Representatives of the SDP to make a decision on the declaration of 16 March of the Croatian Day of Consciousness on the problem of obesity because it is on the trail of everything we have done in the mandate of Mr. Varga when we clearly said that the aim is for every citizen in Croatia to have equal and quality health care without increasing the cost of participation of additional health insurance and that for 5 years, we live in Croatia for 2 years longer. It is certain that the problem of obesity is one of the key problems for which we live in Croatia, so the thickness as one of the leading public health problems, is the leading cause of the growth of patients and deaths from cardiovascular diseases that are leading to disease and dying in the Republic of Croatia and, unlike some Western European countries in which the number of patients and deaths from cardiovascular diseases is decreasing, it continues to increase in Croatia. When we talk about heart disease, then there are reasons why we can't influence, so we can't affect age, sex, genetic burden but food habits, life habits, habits of alcohol consumption, cigarettes, fatty foods, insufficient physical activity, we can certainly influence, and in fact this is the cheapest way to ensure that there are fewer fats with Croatia, that there are fewer diabetes, heart disease and that all people in Croatia live longer, live longer, and that they work longer, and that there is more money in the state budget that can then be invested in the system of health and education, which are key to the long-term problem of obesity. You have already heard from my predecessors' statements today, so I will not burden you with them, but I would still like to highlight a few facts, which is that according to EUROSTAT, among the 28 EU countries, Croatia is 8th in the number of people who are overweight and overweight, which is the percentage of those who are really considered fat, which is a body mass index of over 30%, 18.7%. If we look at the number of people in Croatia who have weight problems, the highest percentage, a quarter of them are between 45 and 74 years old, which is particularly worrying. Interestingly, it is also a lot more overweight men than women if we look at the structure of people who have weight problems, and it is also a data that speaks a lot, which is that most of those who have a weight problem come with people who have only finished primary school. Then with high school, while the least fat in Croatia is among the population who have completed high school education. Therefore, the problem of obesity is a public problem, a public-health problem, obesity is a disease, it is not an aesthetic problem, and in solving the problem of obesity we need to include everyone from kindergartens through primary and secondary schools, colleges, units of local self-government, of course the system of health to us politicians who can, by example, influence that in Croatia, eat better, which does not necessarily mean more expensive and expensive. Also some of the cynical remarks that we have heard here today about black food, black bread, do not honor those who mock in this way because they actually say they do not understand what message is related to black bread. Therefore, this decision must not only be declared declarative. I believe that if we make such a decision not only for this date, but also for other dates then we should also organise public-health actions that will affect the awareness of the problem of obesity and that, as a result, in some foreseeable time in Croatia, the number of patients suffering from cardiovascular diseases and diabetes, cancer, because it will be a sign then that we have succeeded in solving this problem of obesity. So, the SDP supports this initiative, and we will be on our side to argue that it is not just one declarative decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40162	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, for this debate. We have one replica of the esteemed colleague of Sinish Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40163	Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, I will use this replica and praise the debate of my colleague Jovanovic on those segments concerning the very struggle with chronic non-infectious diseases. And when we talk about chronic non-infectious diseases because the colleague Strenja-Linić has listed which they are all those who have all the common denominator is the thickness. The thickness appears in all chronic non-infectious diseases as a connection to the cause itself. Unfortunately, there is no mention of it, and counterpart Celic unfortunately went away, but also psychiatric illnesses are also associated with as one of the chronic illnesses are also psychiatric diseases, and there is also a part of the thickness. However, when it comes to Stigmatisation, the stigmatisation of anyone on any basis, whether disease or physical appearance or dress or nationality or any other one is of course unacceptable in a liberal and democratic society. However, by international classification, the thickness is classified with the number E66. She is a disease and all doctors and all nurses, all health care professionals who come into contact with the treatment of a disease called obesity have a responsibility and a duty to fight that disease. It is rarely related to the overall population associated with endocrinological disorders, as a consequence of the iatrogenic effect of drugs and other effects on the body. But the vast majority is a matter of life’s habits, which unfortunately we have received. And I believe it is my duty for all of us to help the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the Health Promotion Department, to make the project "Living Healthy" live. In fact, European funds have secured 30 million kunas, but unfortunately, we see that quite a rough start and we all need to help start this project as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40164	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Varga, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40165	A colleague of Varg's is really the key, and I answered the line again no matter how many people follow us, but someone's watching. So one of the most useful changes in life that can happen to any man is to lose extra pounds. The loss of 10% will have a drastic impact on the less likely development of cardiovascular diseases, less potential for diabetes development, preserve working life and ensure a longer and better quality life. However, on this very weak side, there are many citizens who buy cheap products that always mean less but less money in their wallet, while at the same time not ensuring weight loss. And that is why it is necessary to provide citizens with a series of information that will encourage them to really and to get rid of excess pounds where the media, pharmacists who should ensure that money is not spent on suspicious products that do not help treat fat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40166	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40167	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I also reported in an individual debate for one reason only because as Minister of Science, Education and Sports, I invested a great amount of energy in the introduction of health education in Croatian schools and faced a number of problems that came from part of conservative associations that did not understand that it is a program that has no ideological color, but has only one goal which is to ensure that Croatian children live longer and better through the adoption of healthy lifestyles. Why am I saying that? Because I've recently instructed, and today we've heard here from a part of our colleagues who don't know that health care isn't an election item. Health education in Croatian elementary and secondary schools is a mandatory subject that is not conducted as a separate subject but as a subject of thematic whole. Therefore, speaking once he is bound is completely wrong. It is a mandatory subject in all Croatian schools and precisely because of these different interpretations I have referred a representative question recently to the Ministry of Science and Education to answer me if there is any knowledge that health education is not being conducted in Croatian schools. So, according to the knowledge of the Ministry of Science and Education, the answer you received on your benches clearly states that according to the curricula and the programme that was adopted at the time when I was Minister of Health Education was conducted as a mandatory teaching unit in all Croatian primary and secondary schools. Therefore, I will also ask the new minister for and insist on seeing if it is true and whether there are schools that do not teach health care. Why does it matter? One survey conducted in 41 countries involving 1500 students between 11 and 15 years of age has shown that Croatia is in a truly infamous 7th place by the number of fat children. Not just that. In Croatia children almost never eat either fruit or vegetables, every 5 children smoke, brush their teeth irregularly, and they are much more prone to drinking alcohol compared to their peers. So, if someone suspects why we need health care, because it could have been educated in both school and church before, on religion, but it obviously didn't seem to be. 80% of children with weight problems will later be threatened. 30% of boys and 17% of girls are only 30% boys, and 17% of girls are engaged in physical activity every day. Yes, they do not have all schools suitable for conducting health, physical education, but physical education does not necessarily mean carrying out activities that require a lot of resources, it is enough to ensure walking, walking, running children, and it will be just as useful to them as any other physical activity. The excuse that we don't have in all schools is not standing and I don't accept it. And finally, I will mention an example from Rijeka, we have heard incomplete information from my colleague, so not only do all kindergartens in Rijeka have a healthy diet, since this year and all 23 schools in Rijeka, which are the founder of the city of Rijeka, have a healthy diet program, not only that, they also have a program called the school of healthy diet with the portal of healthy diet schools, which allow children not only to adopt healthy eating habits, because in vain if a child has a healthy diet at school, so she comes home, where all other meals are unhealthy. So with education in schools, it is necessary to educate parents team before we have seen that the largest number of overweight persons in Croatia is 45 to 74 years old. I therefore conclude with this, we know that in health it is better to prevent a saying than to treat it, it is worth it for diseases, but really when it comes to obesity it is a golden rule and let us hope that this decision of ours will contribute to the number of fat people in Croatia starting with years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40168	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for the debate. We have two replicas, the first to come forward, dear colleague Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40169	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Jovanovic would point out here and agree with you that it is a very important education of children, but as far as healthy nutrition and lifestyles are concerned, but what is also important, which we have just removed from the HDZ Club, because not only should children be educated, but we should not knowingly poison them, of course in school cafeterias, as well as students in the November cafeterias. This was during the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, where the amendment was introduced, which says that when food is supplied, food freshness is seen, and that's one way not only to educate children, because we always best educate them by example, and not just by example, here we had concrete examples, I was doing measures of milk, fruit and vegetables at school that are currently being implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture, and what would happen? During public procurement by kindergartens and schools, which would be held, large trade chains would appear on such tenders, and the fruits offered to children were not at all for use and precisely this amendment in the Public Procurement Act allowed teachers and directors and everyone working on the public procurement of food in schools and other public institutions to watch the freshness of the fruit, i.e. the shortest time for it to come to those institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40170	I thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague, Dragica Roscic. Answer, dear colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40171	My colleagues Rosčić completely agree with you and I was really extremely surprised, what kind of people were trying to make money on various quality projects quickly. So it was an example of the school fruit scheme, which was spoken of by colleague Glasovac, where we withdrew European money, to provide children in schools with a meal, a healthy meal of fruit, and then individuals tried through the offer they were delivering to schools to smuggle fruit that was unquality and thus once again showed irresponsibility. When you mentioned a student diet, I have to mention once again our mandate where we, through the reform of student nutrition for the first time in the last 20 years, have ensured that students for less money have complete menus and that they eat better than before, when they were offered again, different immature preparations with a lot of carbohydrates that allowed the fast-earning part of the supplier to use the money that the state made for the student diet. That's not possible anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40172	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Next to the replica reported by an esteemed colleague of Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40173	Here's a thank you. Here's a piece of the debate my colleague took from me, but then I'll cut it short. In fact, Minister Tolušić announced several times that when we had the situation with the finding of bacteria and toxins in food, he announced quite pompously about the purchase of fresh meat and fresh foods for our schools and I see that now little surfing, I see that on May 30th of this year, I expect the principals of primary and secondary schools to give priority to domestic fruit, vegetables and milk producers, which come from local areas and the competition for the supply of fruit, vegetables and milk for schools, will be carried out by the paying agencies in agriculture. I am very interested in how this will be done since we now have duality, namely the main supplier of the schools themselves in foods that have been cheaper and passed in public tenders as the cheapest bidders from the largest food and food merchants in the Republic of Croatia, who are trying to get back on their feet, and on the other hand, we encourage the OPGs here to bypass this trade chain and directly supply schools with better and better quality supplies which, by avoiding mediation, can be achieved a better price. The new Public Procurement Act also promotes this together. Therefore, trade interests should be ignored and even the state budget should be ignored, in this segment, the health of healthy habits should primarily be seen in this segment because they are habits and health learned in primary and secondary schools is something that then passes through life and thus can extend the lifetime of life. And the extension of life's life is the other side of the medal of demographic imagery, the natal and intelligent politics on the one hand, but the quality of life and the extension of life's life is the other part that must not be ignored at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40174	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Varga, for the replica. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas and all the debates. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40175	The proposal for a decision on the declaration of Croatia's awareness of obesity, is proposed by the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the debate is closed. It puts forward a vote on the proposal for a decision to declare the day of awareness of the thickness. Please, let's vote. I find that with 113 votes in favour and 1 vote against, a decision on the declaration of the Croatian Day of Enlightenment on the thickness of the text was made as proposed by the Committee on Health and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40176	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Cooperation in the area of disaster prevention and the elimination of their consequences, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 125. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal following the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament include the first and second reading, and amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Is it possible that the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal? Here you are, the esteemed Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Robert Kopal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40177	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention and the elimination of their consequences in the further text of the Agreement was signed in Kiev on 21 November 2016. The Agreement lays down the conditions, means of cooperation in the prevention of disasters, the principles and frameworks of joint coordination of parties' activities in the field of disaster prevention and the elimination of their consequences, cooperation in the areas of mutual information on threatening disasters, the resulting disasters and their consequences in the field of education and training in the protection, rescue and provision of assistance, and the exchange of scientific and technical information relevant for the protection of disasters. The competent authorities for the implementation of this Agreement shall, for the Republic of Croatia, be the National Protection and Rescue Authority and, for Ukraine, the State Emergency Service of Ukraine. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This law confirms the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on cooperation in the area of disaster prevention and the elimination of their consequences. The law proposes to discuss and accept the urgent procedure by uniting first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40178	I would like to thank the esteemed Secretary of State for Mr Robert Kopal. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Ante Sanader, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine, the HDZ supports this bill and sees many useful things in it that can help in mutual assistance between our two countries. We particularly hold this exchange of scientific and technological information that the two countries can exchange with this agreement because the experience and knowledge that each member of this agreement of our countries can be useful to the other side. So I don't know Ukraine has a good experience in nuclear power plants problems, famous Chernobyl and surely these experiences can potentially benefit the Croatian state since in our neighborhood the nuclear power plant Krško, means for possibly potential such an incident, these experiences can be of great importance. Here I am personally in the name of the Croatian Fire Community I have already had contact with the Ukrainian Fire Department and we have exchanged our experiences from shutting down major forest fires. And I especially believe that here it can be important, with all of this defined transition protocols as we have with other countries, in particular, and with our neighbouring countries, these joint conferences, which are also the study visits of specialists where these experiences are exchanged in peacetime, exchange experiences with these major events that can be useful to both countries. In this regard, we believe that this agreement as well as agreements with neighbouring countries can be of great benefit and importance to Croatia and that is why we support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40180	I thank the esteemed Sanader for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40181	You mentioned your colleague Sanader's community of fire cooperation with Ukraine, can you give any examples so far that you have cited as positive examples, what was significant for Croatian fire department, for the Croatian Fire Department in collaboration with Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40182	I thank you for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40183	The Croatian Fire Department immediately became a member of the CTIF of the International Organisation Fire and Rescue Serivce founded in Paris in 1900. We are proud to be a member of this international association and within this cooperation the Croatian Fire Department was in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Fire Department was in Croatia. We helped them in our experiences to put out major forest fires, open spaces, we met them, we introduced them to the Croatian Air Force. It is known that Croatia has 6 air, 6 canadians and 5R tractors and that we belong to the best equipped countries in this part of Europe, the most experienced in shutting down these forest fires, especially those air forces as well as the land. And it was a valuable experience for them, and that's where we passed our experiences on to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40184	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague Sanader. This concludes the debate. I would like to thank the representative of the Ministry of the Interior to Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Robert Kopal, for the explanation of the bill. We'll vote on this item on the agenda when the conditions are met. With this, we've exhausted all the points of the agenda for the day. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 in the morning with the agenda Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation No. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on technical assistance and other expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area of the ‘Employment’ policy area. 100. I would like to thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues for the rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 16.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-12-0.u40185	Final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on cooperation in the field of disaster prevention and the removal of their consequences, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 125. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. I find that with 117 votes for, and 2 votes against, the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Co-operation in the area of disaster prevention and the elimination of their consequences has been passed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're starting today's work, I'm already seeing a few hands, but let me just say what the first item of the agenda is going to be, just so you know. This is the final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No. 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions on the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 100. Now I ask for a break, colleague Alexic, colleague Varda, colleague Bulj. You can say and explain.
