ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47588	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm looking for a 10-minute break. In order to report to the public about the latest events related to Agrokor, and in particular to the Command, the Investigation Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47589	Okay. You got it. A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47590	Thank you very much. For the same reason, we're looking for a break and more political circumstances.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47591	You got it. There he is, my colleague Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47592	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club on new moments that give an even bigger moment for the investigative commission to continue its work.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47593	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47594	On behalf of the HDZ Club, too, on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47595	Thank you. I'm a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47596	On behalf of the HNS Club, for the same reason, I'm saddening the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47597	Thank you. He's a fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47598	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDSS Club, I'm also looking for a break for the new information we have on Agrokora.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47599	You got it. I'm a colleague of Vardo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47600	Mr. President, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the same topic as Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47601	Okay. That's it, break till 9.45. It's 9:00.35. We're going back to work. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first is the Club of Representatives to change Croatia, distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47603	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs, respected citizens who are now following us. I asked for this break to point out some new circumstances related to the Agrokor case and the functioning of the Investigation Commission. Based on yesterday's and today's information on the roll-up loan contract, it turns out that lex Agrokor is far more contaminated than I thought and approximately all of us thought. I'll explain later. I remind you that on April 5th, from this very spot, I have requested the establishment of the Agrokor Investigation Commission to investigate the impact of political structures in the growth and development of Agrokor. I suggested a model that would disable manipulation but unfortunately it wasn't accepted. On April 10th, there was a vote here on lex Agrokor, in front of the party to change Croatia I voted against that law because I realized that something, as our people say something stinks. This is about some new circumstances that we learned yesterday and the example of the roll-up loan contract is simply because of these knowledge, simply an example of a colonial relationship with the Republic of Croatia and to us as citizens. So-called The Knighthead Trust Fund, the investment fund practically draws upon this contract all the most important ends and manages the process. I ask the question, then, why is an extraordinary manager, an extraordinary administration? Why this House gave its approval, accepted the Lex Agrokor and gave the extraordinary management task or was apparently just a cover that someone else in the background would do the job that needed to be done. Why is it now agreed on the basis of this new information by the jurisdiction of foreign courts, or Angolan law? Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, today at the meeting of the Investigative Commission at 13 p.m. yesterday, after the information of the President of the Commission of Mr Milenić that he will call and I fully agree with Mr Cvitan, suggest, yes, that he also come to the closed session first to say what the DORH will investigate to make it clear to the Assembly's investigation committee what should not be involved. [[I'll propose.]] And it will obviously be a closed session. But I will ask that Mr. Ramljak and Mrs. Dalic testify immediately after him. Because lex Agrokor really is obviously a top-of-the-line problem right now, not an economic, couple of excellence and political. Someone seems to care that citizens don't know the truth about Agrokor. You can see how nervous, fear is present in this assembly in the political structures of the government and the opposition to which the party belongs and change Croatia will fight to make that truth known. I will also propose to all the opposition parties, because here we do not need to see who will earn the point more or less, that just when he insists that the ruling coalition abolish this Commission of Investigation that we really have all the opposition side by side and join the boycott of Parliament's work. But not to that, not to the democratic one, so to speak unacceptable, I will suggest a very concrete way of doing the opposition in the boycott in one acceptable, effective, democratic way, and we here know exactly how to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47604	The second debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47605	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So here's this announcement, yesterday's announcement of a contract with the Knighthead Trust Fund confirms that Plenkovic's Commissioner in Agrokor Mr. Ramljak was very much in touch before writing lex Agrokor with the scavenger fund. We've seen a lot in the last six months. We saw the accusations, we saw the tampering, we saw the muttering, we saw the hiding and escape from the Investigation Commission, but what we didn't see, we didn't see a plan to save 40,000 jobs, we didn't see a plan for the reboot of Croatian agriculture, we didn't see a plan for restructuring, we didn't see a plan for the fate of people in this country who unfortunately, 100 thousand of them only in the last two years left Croatia. They left due to the model of governance and partner capitalism as established in Croatia by Agrokor in the 1990s. So Agrokor is a cause and effect for Croatia, it is an alpha and omega of all conversions and privatisations, all processes that Croatian society and all Croatian citizens bring to an unequal and unequal position. Agrokor and the whole story about Agrokor shows that unfortunately, in Croatia today the laws do not apply equally to everyone, that they can do anything in Croatia, that others can't do anything, that while they are evicting, others are rich in their account. Therefore, the responsibility of the Parliament, the responsibility of the main body elected by the Croatian people, i.e. Croatian citizens at this time, is more than great. So the biggest responsibility is the Croatian Parliament. And this is another proof that the Committee should continue to work and that every aspect of this unequal status that Agrokor and this balloon have had in society for years that grew on the wounds of Croatian people. That's the only thing I can say, it's something that can never happen again in Croatia. Ortac capitalism at its worst. Ortac capitalism that destroys Croatia's matter, which suckes it out, which it most valuablely takes from Croatia and this today's evidence which is the signing of a contract with Knighthead around rollout is evidence of exactly that, issuing national interests. This is national high treason because foreign funds have taken over Agrokor in the style of conversion and privatisation in the 1990s and have taken over the most valuable Croatian companies. And here's the story, I want to emphasize it, very clear and visible. I call on Plenkovic to answer who lied in this case, Ramljak or him? Whether it was with the consent of Andrej Plenkovic if Ramljak did this whole thing with the knowledge of Plenkovic, Plenkovic must leave because this is a betrayal of national interests and is directly involved in this. If not, he must replace his Commissioner, Ramljak. Therefore, the situation is here and more than clear. I call on Plenkovic to come to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible, we will wait here for him to answer the question whether he knew about the roll-up contract signed by Ante Ramljak and if he knew, then they are together partners in the business and that means Plenkovic and the entire government must leave. Unless he knew. He's got to replace Ramljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47606	Third debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative of Nikola Grmoje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47607	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, here are the days of this struggle for the Parliamentary Investigative Commission. In this fight, I think that we have done everything we could compromiseally, on several occasions handing out our hand to HDZ, I have personally made a proposal to amend the decision on the Parliamentary Investigation Commission because it was agreed at the first informal meeting that we must elect a vice president. I used that to remove this controversial item regarding the quality of financial reports in the Agrokor concert. For this kind of commission that would deal with the reasons, the causes of such an Agrodor, the responsibilities of institutions, politicians, politics and Agrokor, about Lex Agrokor and what happened after Lex Agrokor, we got support with two important points. We received support from Vladimir Seks for such a commission and we received here, yesterday's support and the President of the Republic of Croatia who disagrees with the Government and who also believes that all these circumstances should be examined and that the parliamentary investigation committee should continue to work. This new knowledge that we could see in a particular daily newspaper shows that everything that has been presented to us over the past months does not stand, tells of some alleged stability and that all those who want answers, that they are actually populists, that they violate the stability of the country and even announces a change of legislation to stop and who are looking for answers shows that, Lex Agrokor, who was voted in the Croatian Parliament, is actually this contract that was signed on 8 June about roll up a loan one piece put out of force. It was never talked about in talks that were neither here in the Croatian Parliament, when Lex Agrokor was voted, it was not about roll-up credit, and in particular it was not about such a contract that practically says that all disputes will be settled under Angolan law, meaning not in front of Croatian courts and that is the only item the government has not responded to in this response that we could see in the media, which means that it is obviously very problematic. And all the opposition clubs, all those who spoke before me both Professor Lovrinović and counterpart Bernardić, of course we will try together to find some strategy to force HDZ on the Parliament's Investigative Commission. I don't know if the best way to boycott the Parliament is, I think that's exactly what HDZ wants, not to say in the assembly because we see how nervous they are when they talk about Agrokor, when they call for a parliamentary investigative commission. We still need to agree on this, of course, but what I absolutely agree with is that at the first session of Parliament's Investigative Commission, Ivica Todorić, we obviously will not come, that we should call on the Government's Commissioner or if he is even more the Government's Commissioner, Antu Ramljak, Martin Dalic and Prime Minister Plenkovic, who must marry the answers to these questions because what came out is throwing a whole new light on the whole situation and another argument is why we need a parliamentary investigation commission because we are not dealing with criminal responsibility. We are interested to know how Ante Ramljak drank coffee with one fund before bringing Lex Agrokor to make the fund his head, not the Croatian Government and the Croatian Parliament, which he should be responsible for as the Government's commissioner. These are questions to which we are looking for answers and where we will surely insist. So what is important to stress is that there are no more reasons for obstruction of the Assembly's investigation committee, in the procedure is the amendment of the decision, required by the President of the Parliament on Friday in voting on the agenda, to include it in the agenda and, of course, of you as parliamentary representatives, that the sooner we discuss it, we also vote on the Assembly's investigation committee to start working, to examine these people I talked about at the first session, and then all those mentioned here in the Croatian Parliament, people who have allowed Agrokor to grow to these proportions and in this way affect the Croatian economy, but also those who may have used, the breakdown of Agrokora, to profit in some ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47608	Thank you. Before counterpart Boric, therefore, the clarification of his colleagues, as far as this point is concerned, will be on the agenda and we will vote on it at the beginning of the next session, therefore, as well as all other points. There is no dispute, it certainly comes, as well as all the other points in the agenda. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47609	Thank you very much, Your Honor, here's to say, on behalf of the HDZ Club, our views on the current situation and everything our colleagues have been saying. As far as Agrokor's investigative committee is concerned, the HDZ's position is very clear, the commission is working, has its tasks, has its decision and depends on what the president is doing. Yesterday he called a session we agreed on. I don't know why this divination in advance, which is going to happen at a given moment and the accusation that someone is constantly obstructing, even though the HDZ alone is constructive along with its partner from the HNS in the whole work. Let's be honest with each other, and I'll tell you what, and we'll meet up with the deal. There are those who jump out here every morning accusing someone of being guilty. It's not our fault. We're working on a deal. Some others are doing something else we didn't agree on, but we'll talk about it at 1:00 today. As for the situation itself in Agrokor, it is a strange situation, that after more than 6 months have passed since the adoption of the Emergency Management Act in trading societies of systemic importance, that opposition clubs led by the SDP want Agrokor to end up in bankruptcy and that 30,000 people end up at the Employment Office, i.e. on the street. All these efforts in the public space are such and we interpret them in such a way that the SDP regrets that Agrokor did not end up in bankruptcy and that their provision in the Banking Act was not passed which they already wanted to resolve at the time. The HDZ has stepped on the other side, allowing the legal framework to create a way for the extraordinary administration to manage Agrokora in this situation that it was in six months ago. What happened? We have the fact that instead of hiring the taxpayers' funds requested by Ivica Todorovic we have a government that created a legal framework that allowed the money needed to stabilise the business, the creditors themselves played. What's wrong with the SDP? Which is why taxpayers' money doesn't currently resuscitate the situation in Agrokor. And they've been looking the other way all along to catch what? It's a political point. Gentlemen, get serious. The credit arrangement that provides Agrokor with new funding is filled with taxpayers' funds, and you must understand that. Believers have decided to financially support Agrokor, creditors make every important decision, which is made available by means of assets and settlement. This means that according to the law, the extraordinary administration and its decisions are under the control of the credentials as it should be. Why mix politics and business or business relations? He insists on insisting on the SDP here every day through his breaks. Well, someone gave the money. And we wanted it not to be taxpayer money. And now the constant question, why do they manage their money? So let the law also make that clear. It is not true that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Commercial Court, cannot dismiss, or recall an extraordinary commissioner, Mr Antu Ramljak. For Art. 15. The law on the procedure of the extraordinary administration says the court can call upon an extraordinary commissioner and appoint a new one at any time on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that the government's rights are laid down by law in relation to the extraordinary administration. And no contract can be above the law. Do not create a disturbance or place thesis that does not stand in public space. Alone, with your own action, you're jeopardizing the survival of this system in a way that you're politicizing where politics shouldn't be. It follows from the above, that the financing agreement does not restrict the rights of the Government or the Commercial Court in the extraordinary administration procedure, including the procedure of the extraordinary administration of the platform, on which the creditors themselves must reach a settlement and after the settlement and restructuring. That way, that story with Agrokora would end. And once again, I invite you fellow Bernardic to come out here and tell us, why do you want Agrokor bankruptcy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47610	We're going to 5 debates, it's the club of representatives of the HNS and the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47611	I thank the President, dear colleagues and colleagues so, as you know, HNS did not vote for lex Agrokor, but we were constructive, giving amendments with a clear goal. The aim was always to protect suppliers, protect jobs, and in this direction the amendments went, of course, agricultural production. The law we have is what we have. For weeks now, when the issue of the commission is raised, I personally say that the goal for us all must be the future of Agrokora, the preservation of jobs, suppliers and agricultural production. That's what it's all about, and that's what it's supposed to be about. As soon as possible, we need to bring in some deadlines, and we see some deadlines, so until the 31st 10th business plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47612	I'm just asking you a little bit. My colleagues, dear colleague Maras, colleague Beljak, I beg you, I think it is appropriate, however, that fellow Curray may speak in peace and that it is essential what I must ask of you as chairman. I beg you, continue your colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47613	Thank you. If I don't go from the beginning, then, the priority is to adopt a business plan that should be up to 31.10, to adopt a restructuring proposal that should be up to 30.11. and publish an analysis and publication of the same plan that should be up to 12.1. This is what an extraordinary administration and all of us should be engaged to, because the issue of Agrodor is not nearly as much as we wanted to deal with the Committee and what was before, and I have said it countless times. Yeah, we need to investigate, see if something like this happens to us again. We all know that Agrokor was a state within the state, that some things were obviously a lot of good things, but that some things obviously didn't work out and see if some laws were wrong, if there was anything we could fix, and that's also the point of the commission not to repeat this to us. But people, futures, workers, agricultural production, suppliers, that's the main topic. We haven't been able to study what we're seeing, but neither contract must be above the law or above the court. And it's absolutely clear to everyone. And citizens in the end can't even pay the kuna for any private company, and I think the task of the extraordinary administration is clear. I repeat, we were constructive in lawmaking but we didn't participate in it, but we have it as we have a number of other laws. And it needs to be done and turned to the future, and left to the commission to determine whether there was or whether something can be changed so that something like this doesn't happen again. And certainly we do, of course, what I say all the time by law and from the beginning to determine how it is in the Commission's decision to say where it went wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47614	The sixth debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47615	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. In this House they voted in the best faith for lex Agrokor and for the following motives. First, in order to avoid the uncontrollable process of financial breakdown that could have a devastating effect on the overall financial relations and thus on the overall financial relations in the country. That was the capital reason my party also supported the law. The second reason was that the government took over the management process with the intention of stopping the negative consequences of job losses. The government has taken over this with the intention of avoiding further contamination of relations between different companies in the Croatian economy. And she had this as strong arguments that the management rights of the owners first and foremost take over from Ivica Todorovic on the basis of these justified reasons that the government has under the constitution, by law. She didn't suspend the property, but she did take over the management rights. These management rights are entrusted to the temporary manager and his people, and now it is necessary to clarify, after the publication of this contract, whether these management rights have anything and to what extent have been questioned or, if so, who has given consent? And if it was done without consent then it's quite clear who's responsible for it. So, we MPs here have decided on something that we haven't decided in 25 years, which is to trust the state to take over management rights from a private company for reasons of national interest. Now there are indications, for me still only indications as I suppose for other colleagues including those from the opposition because it's too serious to jump into hot oil just like that. There are therefore indications that someone motivated by special interests has suspended part of these management rights that the government has transferred to temporary administration. For whose interests and with what consequences? It is said here that it will have no consequences for the budget of the Republic of Croatia. That's not clear. If these indications were correct, then the government was actually found in scissors and found in scissors between creditors from before and creditors who got privileged status. Who's gonna pay for that? They're on their own? Let's not be children! They'll pay the state after long and exhausting courts. And the story of courts if exactly what can be read is further complicated by the thing, where one believer has the right to act under Angolan law, and another believer has no right. A believer contests the right of one to act under Angolan law, and when it comes to him, he has the right If that's true [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] In other words [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague Pupovac.]] Thank you, Mr. President. [[Adversity President: Col. Pupovac, 10 seconds are up, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47616	We move to the 7th debate, respected Rechimer Varda, Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, SMSH and Reformist and NZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47617	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I don't mean to give evaluations and the work of the Investigative Commission, or the contracts, or the proposals for amending the Commission's decision to set up an investigation committee, but purely from a legal point of view. There's a dispute here about whether the investigation committee continues to work when the court proceedings begin. I warn you that the Law on the Investigation Commissions of the public was passed on 15.03.1996, that this Parliament, and all the political parties represented in it, meant seriously that an investigative commission could solve anything, would have long been advocating or amending that law. We haven't updated it, we haven't changed it, there's still time to make changes and supplement that law in an emergency procedure. We didn't do that. Secondly, there is a dispute over the decision to set up an investigative commission. In fact, the law states that it is to be established in conjunction with Article 3. The Constitution, this is freedom, equality, national equality, gender equality, peace, social justice, etc., continues to talk about the establishment if, because of the legality of the work of the public service authorities and the legal persons of public law and the issue of public morality. I have not seen the proposal of the Most to amend the decision, I believe it is in accordance with these provisions of the law but the existing decision to set up the Investigation Commission does not comply with even the existing law, does not comply with the existing law. Secondly, the dispute is about, as I said about whether the Commission continues at the moment when the court takes over or makes a decision to confirm the investigation. Please, so our Rules of Procedure solves this situation. I don't know why we've turned a plenary session into an investigative committee. You bomb us on one side and the other with all kinds of information. I'm supposed to be judging now. I'm supposed to vote tomorrow. Please, we ask in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we are the House of Law, we are the House that must preserve legality, before all other institutions of this state. Let us ask for credible interpretation, this is the Rules of Procedure's resolution. Let us request credible interpretation, Article 208, 209, 210. Rules of Procedure, that's exactly what he's talking about. Let's ask and resolve that challenge that way. But then let's bring down the Investigative Commission to investigate on those issues how, as such a law applies to investigative committees speaks. Don't put us in a position to judge us here. Make a decision on the Investigative Commission in accordance with the law on how this Law on Investigation Commissions, as regulated and requested a credible interpretation for Article 4 of the existing law. It can be interpreted both broadly and narrowly. He says as soon as the trial begins, the investigative commission by law ceases, by law enforcement, does not need any decision, we request a credible interpretation and resolve this dilemma and release the plenary session of the Parliament from these bickerings. So let the Investigative Commission, if we bring it all together, continue to work on these issues as to how the law regulates it and wait for its conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47618	Thank you, too. This is what we used up after the break. And we're crossing now, colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47619	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I have one request for you and this is because, in our opinion, it is a national issue, that the twisted law passed by the Croatian Parliament, lex Agrokor, which we have seen in the contracts that have been publicly published we ask you to inform you urgently that Prime Minister Plenkovic or Deputy Prime Minister Dalic must appear in the Croatian Parliament. So we demand the arrival of Prime Minister Plenkovic or Vice President Dalic in the Croatian Parliament to answer the questions that have been raised in public. If that doesn't happen, this isn't some lame thing, but if Prime Minister Plenkovic wants to ignore the Croatian Parliament on this matter, we're willing to do everything we can to get him here and we'll go after, after which comes the next item of the agenda with breaks because we want to hear the answers. So SDP's club requires the arrival of the prime minister or vice president in the Croatian Parliament or we will do everything to ensure that every 10 minutes Croatian citizens hear our arguments about this contract after every debate and we will continue to work in this way. And we invite all other clubs in the Croatian Parliament to join us in this pressure on HDZ and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47620	Thank you, too. I will inform the Prime Minister of your request. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47622	... It's a situation around Agrokor. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47623	Is anyone else picking up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47624	Also a break in the current situation around Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47625	You got it. A colleague of Lovrinović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47626	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47627	You got it. Is anyone else answering for a break? I'm a colleague of Boric's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47628	Same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47629	Thank you. We'll continue at 10.35. It's 10.25 o'clock. We continue to work, the first SDP representative club is a respected colleague of Siniša Hajdas Doncic. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 10.35 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47631	Thank you very much, dear President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, why does SDP insist on the arrival of the diameter of Andrej Plenkovic in the Parliament? For a very simple reason, because it is currently a scenario that will permanently damage the Republic of Croatia with two aspects. The first aspect that there is something that is even greater than the economic concept of GDP is the total national capital that a certain state has. This means not only the ownership of the state, but also the ownership of private persons in other countries. These scenarios where Mr Ramljak, the government's special commissioner, openly admitted at the press conference that he met with representatives of venture capital funds prior to the adoption of Lex Agrokor and before his appointment. So, he directly misused privileged information, that's what you're up to. 259. The penal code, which states that a person who unauthorized to disclose, submit, surrender or otherwise make available privileged information to another person, is being punished by a 6-month sentence. So what he has made impossible and that is the fact, therefore, no one in Croatia can deny it. So he allowed venture capital funds that were therefore founded to obtain privileged information, to buy tbils or Croatian bonds, from Agrokor, by a nominal that was reduced by 70%. What am I saying? That risk capital funds bought the same bonds for 30% of the bonds, raised a loan with the same risk capital funds of 900m euros and the first transaction they made for half that amount on nominal basis bought the shares back. So, I repeat back purchased shares. So, only by one transaction the venture capital funds earned 60%. Plus, of course, the profit, in the future, is on this lease credit, so I repeat, the $900 million loan is divided into 2 tranches, half suppliers, half Agrokor, which is thus damaged. And that's economic fact and economic truth. Now what's the second scenario, how is that going to continue? Also very simple. Contrary to the law passed by this Assembly, the notion of a religious council was introduced, where once again venture capital funds or bond funds account for more than 30% of total votes. The other 30% are domestic banks that also participated with venture capital funds in the first tranche and 30% are left to you, foreign banks, where actually the Sber Bank has a majority of 18%. So you now have an absolutely clean situation, where a venture capital fund in a conglomerate with domestic banks and others who participated, so in that same story, they're going to decide everything. I repeat, they'll decide everything. And unfortunately, so I'm going back to my first thesis, how it's going to end. So the Sber bank is not any bank, so it will be charged to Croatian or Croatian regrets by Agrokor's assets, you know where, in Serbia, BIH, and Slovenia. I repeat that it was a Croatian national interest. 'Cause, like, here's a fellow Bull in this one you mention. As foreign teleoperate brothers earn money over Croatia, Croatia probably should have made a living, so that someone does not understand me in Bosnia or in Slovenia and Serbia, because it is a Croatian national income. This is what it's just all canceled. And whoever's telling you that the whole concert is going to survive, I'm just wondering, how economically? So, ultimately, there will be a wrinkle, the most valuable companies in Agrokor, which will probably have to share the value of their shares and issue their shares in order for the creditors, and these are all those who are not financial institutions to charge precisely from that asset. And so, from that, I say that this happened anywhere except in this Croatia where unfortunately the judiciary doesn't work anymore, or I don't know what's no longer working, so at the same time and under American law and under German law, it's not a matter of politics, so Mr. Ramljak would probably end up in custody right away, and also risk funds would lose their license. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47632	Thank you. Second debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, Honored Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47633	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we see and the public is interested and we Parliamentarians, we need to get information about what appears in the public, which the media conveys in a contract that is visible, means a contract that suspends some of the rights of the adopted so-called. lex Agrokora, so it's visible that there's a national interest at stake, and that's right... In essence, what we have brought to this Parliament is delegated and that it is essentially to be handed over if it is true and credible interpretation, then it must come here Andrej Plenkovic, he is the Prime Minister of the Economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to say, do they have any more influence on the Commissioner in Agrokor? And whether funds, means by suspending lex Agrokora, whether or not the state of Croatia, the Government and the Parliament has any influence at all. There is no more or less need to arrive urgently, to speak to the parliamentary representatives and to the Croatian public. He would also ask the chairman of the National Security Committee for threat and economics to call a committee. I would ask the President of the Republic of Croatia to do so because of the threat to the economy, i.e. National security to call, it's her obligation to the National Security Council, to see if they've taken over in this way one way that's cloudy, which delegates what we brought in lex Agrokor. If the contracts that have appeared in the media are correct, and we do not yet have any deficit from the Government or from the Governor of Agrokor Mr Ramljak to move and to see because the services are the ones that have to do their job, the services must be for the purpose and protection of national security, national interests, and not for the foreigners of Angolan law to take over the most important resources, food production, agriculture because this Parliament did not vote. The parliament voted to protect it with this law. But this way we don't have any answers. And once again, on behalf of the MOST club, I call on Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to come for a pay phone, he was elected from Parliament as prime minister and to address parliamentary deputies, and above all the public. And let all the bodies in charge of the possible threat to the economy do their part of the job and protect the Croatian economy mainly food industry, agriculture, all related to Agrokor concert. Mr Plenkovic, there's nothing to be afraid of, come to the MPs, explain this contract that suspends the law passed by Parliament. It is your obligation to the parliamentary representatives, and especially to the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47634	Third debate of respected counterpart Ivan Lovrinović, Club of Representatives Change Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47635	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to point out some more details I've been looking for a break. We see that we are indeed at a very special moment that we are looking for, in which we are asked that this story about lex Agrokor, the position of Agrokor, the influence of political structures finally be explored. We heard yesterday from the President of the Republic that she supports the work of the Investigative Commission. We also heard from Mr. Cwitan's director that he has no objection to the Assembly's investigation committee continuing its work. However, gentlemen, there was clearly fear in certain people, the structure of this commission. We are constantly stressing that the Committee of Investigation of the Parliament is a political committee and we will not overlap with each other about the position and role of the State's Attorney's Office, the courts and the full meaning we must respect what they are doing. And we'll do nothing about their questions. However, I want to stress one more thing here and get to know the public about which I almost don't even know 99% of Croatian citizens have a clue about it. You remember Agrokor took White for one kuna. In 2011, he came in such a position that I am not now spreading the story that he was obliged to submit a public takeover bid, meaning after the purchase of other shares from small shareholders because he increased his stake from 52% to 67%. At that time, the Croatian Agency for the Control of Financial Institutions, which was then operating according to the law, gave the order that Agrokor must conduct a public offering and that transaction of buying all other shares would cost him about 800 million kuna. However, soon the then director of HANFA, Mr. Samodol, was removed. The speedy decision was taken by the Constitutional Court, returned the proceedings to the Administrative Court and the new head of the HANFA, so a new let's say the dispute, the trial, and then the Administrative Court annulled the decision of the HANFA previous and said Agrokor had no obligation to take over these Whites, i.e. to buy other shares. If Agrokor had bought the remaining shares of Belja for 800 million then he wouldn't have bought Mercator. And if that hadn't happened today, Agrokor wouldn't have been in my opinion in this situation, not in that situation at least. She could be... Now, what I said is clear to you and you don't understand what I'm trying to say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's this about? Why did the Administrative Court decide that Agrokor did not have to buy the remaining shares? Because then, and I would like it to be interpreted as being the representative of the Croatian Privatisation Fund at the time, means in court he testified that he is not only Agrokor owner of Belje, but that this is a joint project of the Croatian state and Agrokor, and on this basis a decision on the right of reference was made, that there is no Agrokor obligation of public offering. And I ask that it be investigated here, that this case be investigated. Here's a chance to deal with the Bureau of Investigation. We'd be dealing with these things if someone had guessed, hadn't guessed, what political structure, who ordered it. Dear citizens, I address you on behalf of the party. We will change Croatia, and I agree with the efforts of the entire opposition. You have the right to hear the truth and we will fight for it in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47636	And the fourth debate of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47637	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So let's argue as always in HDZ and we want to do it. As far as we're concerned, the policy here and there can be all day. It's no problem at all. We have enough arguments on our side, we're not afraid of MOST or SDP or anything, we can talk, not at all, gentlemen, and we're not nervous. As for the demands of some who have now been spoken at the stop, I will remind you gentlemen of the SDP at the time when we changed the Law on the conversion of Swiss francs, as you spoke to us at HDZ. You called us bank agents, you didn't forget, and we passed the law unanimously. Now I ask you here whose interests and interests you here are now representing in the Croatian Assembly, who is calling you and saying you are looking for a break and ask this and ask that. Is it some kind of bank? Could these be some banks they've also been offered to participate in that loan, so they refused? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How can you not be ashamed? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47638	A colleague of Whitey's, a colleague of Whitey's, and why are you here, and why did you find yourself invited? So he didn't mention you at all, you weren't involved in the debate. I don't know that somewhere subconscious of you talking. I beg you like this, you have brought a whole series of charges against HDZ, those who participated, and allow the HDZ to respond now. ... Don't say anything can't, because then I'll also warn you that you can't, because you're also putting out a whole series of thesis that the other side can be offensive. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So please let your colleague Boric speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47639	May I? I'm fine, I'm fine. ... Easy, you don't have to be nervous, gentlemen. I'm just asking a question. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are you the bank agents, here? Some banks. So let's move on, we heard this contract was suspended by law. It is not true, I repeat the sentence I said in my first address, the rights of the Government of the Republic of Croatia against the extraordinary administration are laid down by law and no contract can diminish them, they have proved. And you can mystify, create conspiracy theories, ask for the prime minister to come, you can say whatever you want because that's what we've been fighting for, and that's what this Parliament is for. But we won't forget to remind you of the time we spent a few months ago, the end of the 3rd month, the beginning of the 4th month, 3 billion kuna blocks, on the account of 6 kuna or 9, someone had to do something. We saw the opposition reaction and we saw the majority's reaction. And that's where I'm going to say MOST proved constructive, and together with HDZ, it passed the Law on extraordinary management in trading societies of systemic importance. What did that mean? Stabilizing the system, performing the tourist season, 30,000 people working in the system, has shown the government's competence to manage such a process. Paid little suppliers that were most talked about in the first payment order. Yes, my colleague Bernardic took pictures of himself with desire, that was his contribution. You've opened some kind of phone for advice, we haven't heard how many suppliers have answered and told the SDP to help. And then we came to this situation where someone has a problem with the stability of the system that's been established, the stability of the systems that have enabled 20 creditors, who, just want to protect and do what is professionally required by the regulated economy. And what are we listening to here today? That the Commission of Investigation should be managed, I guess, by all means of creditors, that the Commission should investigate this. Well, maybe that's our turn, but we'll start from the beginning today at that meeting at 1:00 p.m. when we agree on how we'll proceed, but stop bombing us with the false, I really beg you, with the false. And admit that this government has shown that it has the means and competence to manage the most severe economic crisis that has arisen from time of war to today. And don't twist the aggrieves to catch some political points with those who may not be sufficiently focused on this whole situation. And I'm just telling you once again, if it's necessary, we're going to go out here more times today and show that we've done everything in our power to keep this system working and you're going to give us one more answer in the opposition why you want 30 thousand people to end up on the street, that Agrokor ends up in bankruptcy, and that taxpayers' funds are being committed, not all of them from the credentials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47640	Comrade Boric, thank you. Thank you. Comrade Maras, you've been contacted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47642	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're looking for a break of 10 minutes related to the circumstances surrounding Agrokor. And I'm taking another chance to ask you if you may have informed the Prime Minister and if he will come to the Croatian Parliament to discuss this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47643	Thank you. Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47644	Dear President of the Parliament on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, I request a break on the Agrokor situation, and I would also warn of the inability to respond to the replica I had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47645	I don't understand why the inability to respond to a replica? Will you excuse my colleague, Lovrinović? Can you explain to your colleague Panenic? So you haven't answered? Well, I mean it. This is really interesting now. Comrade Lovrinović, here you go. [[Bukarica raid: Well it has a plate, it rises.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47646	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'm also looking for a break because of the new details I'm about to present on Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47647	Okay. I'm a colleague of Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47648	On behalf of the HDZ Club on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47649	Okay. We'll continue at 11 o'clock and 24 minutes. It's 11:14 p.m. We're going back to work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.25 HOURS]] The first word came from a respected colleague, Maras, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47651	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have not yet received an answer whether Prime Minister Plenkovic will come to the Croatian Parliament to discuss the most important topic that is happening at the moment in the Republic of Croatia and we expect him to come and report and discuss with representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia need to know and understand that the Club of Representatives of the SDP is doing this to protect national interests and to give them answers, because we as representatives answer to you, to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, with this policy, Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ seem to have lost some of its sovereignty. Croatia must not allow MPs in the Croatian Parliament to repeat the privatisation it was during the 1990s. At the moment, the funds, the Agrokora financiers control the situation in Agrokor more than the Croatian Government and Croatian Parliament and Croatian citizens do. We saw that from the published contracts. That is not what the opposition did not vote for the Lex Agrokor law at the time, but it was not adopted by the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament passed a law that defines the commissioner as proposing the government of the Republic of Croatia. No consent from scavenger funds, no consent from cloudy sources of funding. Why do I speak murky? Because right now, we don't even know who the real financiers of the entire roll-up loan signed by Ante Ramljak are. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not know who is behind this job. That Agrokor's keeping secret, that's what people in the funds who brought that money in. With a legitimate question and a reasonable doubt, we can ask ourselves whether someone associated with the government is behind 40% of the amount that is clouded in the entire loan and that in this way someone like Todorovic has acquired Agrokor in the 1990s privatisation as we have said in the way we said in the 1990s. I am asking for the understanding of all those who are watching us Croatian citizens to realize that this is the only way to fight for them to get information and protect national interests. It doesn't seem to be in the least of the best interest to HDZ. The people of HDZ, in the Croatian Parliament, defend the defence indefensibly, and also do not know who is behind the funding, which is why the Night Head, or the funds that are associated with the financing, took full control of Agrokora, the appointment of Commissioners and other things. Which is why we decided, or Ante Ramljak decided on behalf of the Croatian government to accept the arbitration of non-Croatian courts. Who gave him the right to accept the arbitration of non-Croatian courts and thus give up the sovereignty that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has within our country. Who gave it to Anti Ramljak? If this is the right of Anti Ramljak to be given by Andrej Plenkovic, then he can no longer be prime minister of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore we expect again, we call on Plenkovic to come to the Croatian Parliament and that as soon as possible to answer these questions, to resolve Ante Ramljak or to confirm that he has left sovereignty over our foreign companies in agreement with him, which, unfortunately, is not, unfortunately, but rather, what he should not allow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47652	Thank you. The second is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47653	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I would actually warn of the consequences that occur with this particular loan that was signed. We're talking now about his harmfulness that is possible in future times, but I'll just tell you what it looks like on the ground. On the ground, it seems that the enrollment of pledges is unfortunately due to slowness, inconsistency, inconsistencies, and everything else that we have in the judiciary and inadequate conversion of social property has led to tragic situations. Now, here I am, in my community, we have records that were made just because someone put it under the cap of a VUPIK or I don't know the PIC of Vinkovci or Belja, so it enrolled in the train stations, on the roads, on the toilets. I mean, we really need to watch what when we're putting into stock everything that's covered, how we've become blocked. And just for this kind of application, and we have to be bitter because in some model, if there was a need to resolve something, we would call for a Croatian court, we would defend the interests that we have of Croatian people. And what would happen? It would happen to say the Croatian court, which is also a fact, we are not in charge, so we did not approve such circumferences, registrations but was approved by a contract, a contract which, according to Angolan law, which was ultimately implemented by the entry in books. So our court has acted on what the contract based on Angolan law has defined. We're just getting into a tragic situation here. And that's exactly what the fundamental difference between our and continental rights and Anglo-Saxon rights is, and that's the only part of which the government hasn't been manifested, everything else we can do. Of course, they can also replace Mr. Ramljak and that's not controversial. The only question is what will happen financially, which is what the contract said, we will determine, it will not be determined by the Croatian government and will not determine the prime minister Plenkovic. And that's exactly why they installed the triggers so-called. What we're going to do is make one government that's insecure, unstable, limited, that they can't act. And then you install, you can't do this, you can't do that, and you can't do one, the other, the third, the fifth, the sixth, the tenth, the clauses. You know what those clauses are called? They're called champagne clauses. These are the midnight clauses that we agreed on, you'll get the money, and then we write this with you, and while you're drinking champagne, everyone's happy. Because we got the money, we calmed down the situation. On which is the pledge, which will be the consequences. Here, it was not thought about at the time, it was just for us to settle the Croatian public and come out sleazy and say we secured the liquidity of the Agrokora system, which was not then come out either Mr Ramljak, Mr Plenkovic, and said what the basic conditions of this contract were. Anyway, that contract is in the land books, those are public documents that are available. Which isn't immediately said then, here we get the money, the terms are you, you, I mean, it's a transparent way of working the government that we're expecting. It is expected of each of us individually, not of the Croatian government. And what's the message? The message cannot protect us, nor can the Croatian government, and this will not protect us, nor will the Croatian judiciary, because they, unfortunately, when they look at that contract, will say only we have two sides that have agreed that we are not in charge and we can direct you to London, Washington or where the Angolan law applies, and we will look and hope that it will all end best together. And that's exactly where our signatories thought everything would be ideal, everything would be great, nothing would happen and let's go with that approach, and the risk they took is not really that risk, they've done a much worse thing. And that is that they have put the Croatian company, the Croatian government in one subordinate position and that will come back to us because we have become the subject of subordinate positions, not in this arbitration. It seems that in every arbitration we are thought to have no more spine, and that our Croatian government has no more spine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47654	Thank you. Next is the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinoić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47655	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I also welcome you, especially I welcome all of you citizens who follow this work of the Parliament. Why did I ask for a break now? Well, you see, there's always talk that goes through the thesis, that this government didn't make a move with Lex Agrokora, that everything would fall apart and that it was a policy of stability. But now that comes to the surface, we see that there was then, a seed of further destabilisation of both the Croatian economy and society. What was done in the meantime? This arrangement, which was made, which was to be restructured,... Agrokor's system has been further in debt for several billion kn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of going, it started to restructure. Is that stabilising the system? It's not. But there's something I want to say here. We politicians need to be responsible, we need to fill up our jobs and I appeal to everyone that this topic is extremely sensitive, important to approach, without any sensationalism. But let me say, if it's facts, I know that many people here are in the way. It's not sensationalism, we just have to say it. And look what we're doing right now. HDZ and HNS are now pushing as an opposition to accounting skills. Well, we gentlemen haven't talked about it at all, nor are we interested in it. We've been told by the Parliament, you're engaged, you're a political commission, you investigate the impact of political structures on the development of Agrokor, because as regulatory bodies have acted, whether the tax is paid, whether this is what we're doing, not that we're doing the writing. You're on purpose, that's what you're saying about us. That's not our mandate. And please, don't manipulate that. It's not the subject of our investigation. So let's be open. Many companies in Croatia were giving their balances. Well, we all know that. Why should they improve their credit ability in front of bankers, their image? We won't do it, but we know it's spread. But I'm gonna say here now, something extra. Gentlemen, this audit that did its job 10 days ago, it determined what? That the commitments for Agrokor are 20 billion higher than the assets. But no one said that in translation, which means. And that means that all the bonds that were broadcast were uncovered. We can't say a little bit now when we're comfortable with some information, and when it doesn't answer, we don't mention it. All the meanings of the bonds that have been broadcast over 7 billion have been uncovered, and that has to be answered why so. And why am I saying that? Well, it's a matter of regulators, it was an incursion into the monetary system, parallel money emissions, parallel financing for which are the responsibility of the CNB and the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency. What was done to those institutions? The CNB says these days that they've done a great job in this whole mess, the HANFA washes its hands. They both say that everyone knew everything, and we here, so we want to be deprived of the law and wants to get us off the stage so we don't just investigate the responsibility of these institutions and that's a political mission. We're a political committee. I know that now you in HDZ, HNS, would prefer Mr. Todorovic to end up as Pedro or put him in the blackest dungeon, why? That he doesn't say what he knows. Everyone will be responsible for what he did. So does he. But I understand a man that apparently has the fear of coming here, that he'll be arrested, that he'll be locked up out there somewhere that he can't talk. So a month ago, I stood up for it and sent a call until the Committee was formed to come here to the Parliament and ask him questions. I invite him if he can't do it personally, let him testify through the video link is obviously a great fear in certain political structures and I invite you citizens to support us as an investigative committee in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47656	Thank you. And the last debate of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47657	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, for the third time today. Well, obviously, this SDP's pause initiative has great support for the SDP Club, 4 MPs sitting here, probably very interesting, actually trying to mock Croatian citizens and make it impossible for this Parliament to work normally, but we will continue, I said, just here, not a problem. So I'm going to ask Mr. Maras the first question when he was talking about the Anglo-Saxon legislation and I'm going to ask, and where did the Government of Zoran Milanovic launch arbitration in the INA MOL dispute? Did she protect the sovereignty of Croatian legislation? Here, come out next time and answer. Furthermore, the SDP says we are talking about protecting the interests of Croatian citizens. So we're all reading what's written somewhere, looking at portals and comparing who's saying the same thing and who's saying different. So who's saying the same thing? All the time, the last few months. The same is said by one bank that was offered a credit arrangement and refused to enter the credit arrangement, says the same owner of Agrokor and speaks the same SDP. Is this an interesting group, are these our interests to protect the interests of Croatian citizens? And what is the basis for such behavior? The starting point was everything in Agrokor at the end of the 3rd month was fine, honey flowed, milk flowed and accidentally the owner came to the government to ask for a little help and then someone went into the system and did everything wrong. So is that the truth you serve Croatian citizens? Is that what we need to tell them as truth? It wasn't like that, gentlemen. I repeat, 3 billion kuna blocks, several kunas in the account, threats, executions and everything else we've witnessed and we see a government reaction that makes the law possible and allows us to pass all those steps that have been waiting for us in the year. And tourist season, the most successful and supply and debt recovery for all suppliers especially small suppliers in the first payment order. And how did it all go to reach the 3rd month of 2017 and the situation of the Agrokor that was imposed on the government? Let's go back to 2012, today my colleague Lovrinović was talking about it. The change of government, one government that sits on Mr Maras as minister plus many other ministers, does not accept the 2011 HANFA report and, of course, creates topics to replace the former director of the institution, i.e. agencies. What does the Ministry of Finance do, and what does it do? They're changing decisions made by the previous HANFA administration and helping someone, but we're going to leave it for the Committee, we have documents, and I'm even sorry, and it seems to me that this commission that we should have at 1 o'clock, a little bit becomes even superfluous because everything has already been said in the morning at 3 o'clock, only we haven't told which documents and witnesses yet. And we simply do not see why the assembly is being abused so that the commission can continue its work in the way it is imagined and in the way that all the commissions have done so far. Once again, of all what you've said today, most of it is false and ultimately, we need to understand that the process of extraordinary administration is a business process, that it's not a political or public process. It is a property of the business process that its participants have the right to both business secrets and that their names do not have to be read in public, in some political bickering. Nevertheless, the government has also tried to make sure that the Lex Agrokor Act, that all information on this process is made public in the monthly reports and is available to all. At the end of the question, once again to the SDP, why do you want 30 thousand employees to go bankrupt and end up all on the street? Is that worth one of your political points?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47658	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47660	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge regarding the investigative commission and this situation around Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47661	Thank you very much. Honorable representative, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47662	Mr. Vice President and we're looking for a break for the political circumstances that and the consequences of this contract that we've learned about, but I'd like to ask you if you could let us know if an example has been made of our application or request to come to the Assembly and do you have any feedback on that? Since the President of the Parliament, when we asked for it, said he'd be informed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47663	Thank you. Dear Representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47664	Your Honor, Vice President. Here, on behalf of the HSS Club, we are looking for a break because of the soap opera Agrokor and the main figures of the soap opera Plenkovic, Dalic, Ramljak and blogger Todorovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47665	Thank you. Dear Representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47666	For the same reason as Mr. Felak, we're looking for a break in the name of the Living Wall and the SNAGA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47667	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47668	For the same reason, the HDZ Club is also looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47669	Of course, do any other clubs want to take a break? You will not, but this is indeed a surprise, it has been announced that you will obstruct the work of the Parliament all the time, so I am surprised that some of the doctors have not answered. But good. Of course I'll take a break, 10 minutes off. I'll see you at 12.20. We can do this by midnight, no further. It's 12.10 o'clock. Here it is, we're running out of time, and then we'll take the turn as the clubs asked for a break. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12,20 HOURS]] And the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists is the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47671	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Following a request made this morning by the entire opposition that Prime Minister Plenkovic must answer questions that are open by publishing these documents or a roll-up loan contract published in Croatian media this morning, we still have no answer to that request. So we are asking that under the urgent Prime Minister Plenkovic, not only here in front of the Croatian Parliament, this is necessary as quickly as possible, but also before the Assembly Research Commission to answer many questions and he and government commissioner Ante Ramljak. In order not to make it seem that what is current and what is now in the public's focus is only important, I would support the position of my colleague, Boric, who said that we should also examine what was going on on the Investigative Commission before. We don't have any problems. After all, we have filed criminal charges against HANFA and the CNB for inaction, to examine all circumstances. Not only the HDZ governments' responsibility for the situation in Agrokor but also the responsibility of the SDP itself, the replacement of the leaders of the HANFA, conducted by Slavko Linic, who is also together as HDZ, or the same as HDZ, opposes this parliamentary investigation committee. I am not absolved from the responsibility or from the SDP government, and we want them all, so all finance ministers, all agriculture ministers, all economy ministers to answer all questions in front of the Parliament's Investigative Commission. We've opened this story about Agrokor, we've filed criminal charges against Ivica Todorovic for falsifying financial balance sheets, we've filed criminal charges against HANFA and the CNB and we're not running from anything. I suggested that one of the witnesses who will be invited be Bozo Petrov, who was an actor of these events and can answer many questions. Just as we do not run away and want to answer everything, because we do not have any guilt or responsibility, we also want Andrej Plenkovic and Ante Ramljak to answer questions that are open here by parliamentary representatives in front of this House. I don't know why such a fear of the Assembly's Investigative Commission, but I am glad that my colleague, Boric, is under pressure, finally changing the position of HDZ and supporting the Assembly's investigative commission. Yeah, that's what you said earlier in the apartment, you were talking about SDP's sins about the HANFA that need to be questioned on the Assembly Investigation Commission. In order to examine this, it is necessary that the parliamentary investigation committee proceeds uninterruptedly. And of course Slavko Linic and all of the SDPs who are responsible for anything about Agrokor will need to answer these questions. That's our wish, that's what we're going to fight for, and no one who's responsible is going to avoid this parliamentary investigation committee. We do not announce here as you colleagues say we do not need a meeting, the meeting is necessary to agree. But since you're mentioning those who should be in front of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission. Let the other MPs do the same. And what's now in focus not because it's most important, it's certainly important but it's in focus. Because the documents were released this morning that the Croatian public was not familiar with, so she was not familiar, which should have been presented to us long ago. Obviously, there was no transparency in this process, and it was obvious that MOST had to be resolved in order to implement what was being carried out. This roll-up loan was concluded in June of the month. So it's during the HDZ and HNS government, so when MOST was no longer in government while Lex Agrokor, while it was being discussed here and voted no one mentioned roll-up credit, and especially not these conditions. Now he's having a problem with whether Antu Ramljak can be replaced. It can be replaced, but with catastrophic consequences for Agrokor and the Croatian economy. So it's signed by this contract. And what is even more problematic about which almost no one here in the Parliament has said that under this contract, payment to suppliers without the approval of this fund has been disabled, that ownership restructuring has been disabled without their approval. And it's much more dangerous. And it's very dangerous that we agreed to settle disputes under Angolan law, not in front of our courts. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] And that on these issues the Prime Minister Plenkovic needs an emergency response. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47672	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to stick to the weather. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Prime Minister is right when he says that no contract can derivate lex Agrokor and he is right, Mr. Boric, when he keeps telling us about it. However, the fact that they are right has its other side, and it reads about this: “If you want to replace Ramljak you are putting yourself in danger of paying what mile is 1.06m euros is a loan, I guess something will be returned. Therefore, one substantial amount which in any case burdens the state budget. Why was that done? I guess these funds aren't convinced of the stability of this government, so they're protecting themselves from some other government coming so that their rights that they've got remain. So, the government will leave, and Ramljak will stay. And if the government has to cash out a few hundred million euros, then you can leave Ramljak, and probably the funds will go. Here's the story. So this contract has its own strong political implications, which is that Ramljak has become stronger than the government and the Parliament together. Secondly, we asked for the Prime Minister to come to us and explain or Deputy Prime Minister Dalic the circumstances of the treaty and to explain to us why this contract is good or perhaps even brilliant and we have not yet received any information as to whether it will happen. But it's a clear message. Ramljak is now stronger than the government, the government no longer manages Agrokor, manages funds and lex Agrokor can actually be called lex funds. It's after all the consequences of this law. What would happen if the government or government changed? It no longer has any impact on Agrokor, which is systemicly significant, unless it pays a very large price of several hundred million euros or several billion kunas. And that's it. Therefore, Agrokor was handed over to funds with some kind of contract that was accidentally found in the Land and Book Department of the County Court in Zagreb on the Day of Open Doors of Croatian Courts. And that's today's main topic of the political scene. I, therefore, call on the mentor of the Prime Minister who in several interviews proved his strength and power to encourage him through several points to come to the Croatian Parliament and to explain to us what this is about. Here I think the gentleman, that Mr. Seks understands the seriousness of the situation and, as he has managed to persuade the Vrdoljak, will also be able to persuade Plenkovic to come to the Parliament and explain to us what this is all about. And after we've learned the information from this contract, we can freely say that Agrokor is now called Ramljakor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47674	Thank you. On behalf of Cuba, the next member of the HSS will speak to the esteemed representative, Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47675	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Croatian peoples here today we are all part of this soap opera called Agrokor with leading actors Plenkovic, Dalic, Ramljak, blogger Todorovic. However, there are many individuals who are not mentioned. We're talking about contracts. Some say contracts are worth it, they're not worth it. As far as I know, everything in the contract is signed and contracts must be respected. But everyone was talking today about the almighty Anti Ramljak who says it is not worth the contract, this 1.06 billion-dollar roll-up loan contract, which, of course, this poor Croatian will have to pay back. Col. Boric says, now I don't know if he's just thinking about the SDP or the entire opposition, that we're agents of the banks. Comrade Boric, we from the HSS will be agents of the Croatian people and believe that we will try to expose many things that are here. I'm gonna go back a little bit to facts, a little bit to history, to the chronology of the formation of Agrokor which was in '76. registered as a company for the production of flowers and seedlings, '89. is formed by d.d. And then in the '90s HDZ came to power and was in power until 2000. Agrokor '92. The year buys Jamnica, Agroprerada, founded the hunting economy of Moslavina. '99. Most of the year is in Ledo, Konzum, Solana Pag and other companies. '98. Most, the majority part of Jaska wine from Jastrebarsko and then in 2000 HDZ goes into opposition, Todorovic buys in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other neighbouring countries, and in 2004, when HDZ again comes to the government of Agrokor becomes the majority owner of Agrolaguna. In 2005, PIK Vrbovec, 2007 Tisak. I'm asking you now who made it possible for Todorovic to make Agrokor this way, who made all this happen today? Who made it possible to lex Todorovic or lex Agrokor for which we from the Croatian Peasant Party did not raise our hand and proved true which was said to be all those who did not raise their hand for it. Those who supported it have put Croatia in a position to lead Croatia today into a complete collapse, Croatian economies, states and societies. The collapse of Croatian economy, state and society. After this affair, this country is slowly falling apart. We are being taken over by vulture funds, which are now seen in how they came, that the almighty Ante Ramljak, with them negotiations for months before the lex Todorovic, to lex Agrokor, and that the whole scenario was written long ago, to destroy this little bit of what was left of the Croatian state. Dear gentlemen, the MPs and you of HDZ I urge you to step away from your party discipline and look with your eyes and see where our country and this people are going. I'm asking you who's gonna pay for this? We may not be sitting here right now because that state pays all our salaries and salaries, but will there be a Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government in this way? This is just high treason to my people. HDZ has been in power for 20 years, 27 years. And I don't know how anyone has the nerve to tell the opposition it's your fault what's going on today you made it possible. What I read to you, you can find on the Internet, how Agrokor came into existence, who made it possible for Agrokor, who came down on his boobs, Agrokor, and now that it's all gone, we're coming into the soap opera, where they are. The characters between them and Plenkovic who may not be as guilty as they were before him, but unfortunately, that Stigmu will carry the HDZ for a very long time and cannot defend itself from it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47676	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the Honorable Representative, Ivan Pernar, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47677	Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen. What shakes the entire Croatian public is not only a story about Ramljak, but also a story about Zdravko Marić. Namely, Zdravko Marić was in Agrokor, he worked, he knew everything that was going on there and in the business world, when you can't get credit anymore, it's usually because you're incompetent, so you're no longer able to return it. It's like that in the whole business world. And so it was with Agrokor, for this reason because Agrokor no longer had valuable assets that could be a guarantee for the return of the loan, the banks actually stopped funding Todorovic, and that is why Todorovic reached out to those regression bonds, i.e. by lending through suppliers, where he actually transferred his debt to them. These suppliers will have to repay the debt in 100% of the principal + interest. And the goods they were getting from Agrokor, unfortunately, will not be returned to them or in the amount of the principal, so they will be returned, as far as I understand it, to a maximum of 30%, to less than 1/3. That Minister Maric says he didn't know, the governor, said Vujcic, in his own time, everyone knew everything. So they also knew about Agrokor and suppliers and bankers, because eventually the bankers were in business with Todorovic and they told him how much he could be in charge, etc. Minister Maric was basically misleading the Croatian public all the time, saying that Agrokor is all right, that everything is going according to plan, that there is no problem. To end up having a breakdown. And there comes Ramljak who meets with the representatives of that... The fund before Lex Agrokor is written, and notice this thought, this is shocking now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In lex Agrokor there is no notion of roll up credit. So the idea of me giving you credit now, and in return getting not only that loan, but that I could charge, some old claims, it doesn't exist. It doesn't exist in Lex Agror. Which means no one else came up with such formulas but Mr. Ante Ramljak. According to that roll-up loan he secured will be a scavenger's vulture's fund, getting twice as much as he invested. So if they invested 100m euros or 500m euros, they would get 200m, or a billion euros. So the profit for them is in less than a year times two. I don't know, you gentlemen of the HDZ are aware, there are few investments that allow you to make double profits, made possible by the commissioner you appointed as American vultures. However, unlike American vultures, who will get twice as much as they invested, domestic producers, domestic workers, domestic merchants, or suppliers, which is what all bankers will have to write off 70%. So twice as many Americans, all 70 percent less. It's a model created by Ante Ramljak, a model the law didn't foresee. And of course, if the Americans knew that and in order not to change the situation, they even wrote in the contract, that Ante Ramljak couldn't, without their consent, move away. Why? Well, because they know he went on to them, that he was doing something the law didn't predict, that we all know. So Ramljak was doing what the law didn't predict. And not only that, he was with them, and a month before the law was written, when it was not known that he would be the Commissioner. Which means Ramljak knew everything earlier, what would happen and later made the decisions he had made earlier with those vultures. So he was planning on dealing with vultures, long before that deal was signed and where it went on their hands, and that's why they say, you can't change it without our consent. In any normal society, Ramljak would have been accused of being in conflict of interest, having privileged information with which the trade is, etc. With whom someone went on hand, and someone to the harm. In Croatia, however, Ante Ramljak is a protected animal just like Zdravko Maric, a minister, as well as all others involved in this crime, and why? Because there is a financial interest and those who have decided to achieve it, they have their own people in the government and will simply implement it. Of course, HDZ does not see that this is the reason for the shift, because it is a party that has been known for such a government model for the last 20 years. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47678	Thank you. I'd just beg that we don't call anyone animals or ministers or anyone else. It's a matter of basic decency and home education. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Josip Boris will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47679	Thank you very much, Vice President. I hope we get there by commission, do everything, and we'll stop for a little break now that Parliament's working and the commission's in session.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47680	Well, you know it doesn't really matter too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47681	And obviously then, I don't know, because we're being accused of something... We see who actually wants and only the blockade of the investigative commission but on this let the citizens' judges, it is up to us to respond to all the baseless accusations here today from the opposition representatives and try to make arguments really by not politicising, not labeling, but simply sticking to what it says, what the law has predicted and what the Government is doing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think a few phrases here that have been said by several representatives of opposition clubs may be media interesting, but it certainly does not solve the issue of the Agrokor problem, and so far it has proved that all these phrases have helped nothing and neither the activities of the SDP nor the activities of any other opposition parties. As far as MOST's claims about roll-up credits are concerned, it is clear that MOST was also familiar with more or less everything, however, today they say they have changed their position and they know nothing, so I will refer them to what Bozo Petrov says, let them read. Secondly, as far as we've changed our position in HDZ and myself personally, we haven't changed our attitude, we've always been on the same model and in the beginning, from only Lex Agrokor, so on, we represent the interest of those who are employed, those who want to work, to stay in those jobs, with Agrokor to survive in any form and sense after the settlement and restructuring that these people continue to do their jobs. And as for who solved the MOST, MOST disintegrated himself by voting on the government against his minister, his colleague Zdravko Marić, and it's a well-known fact so I don't know why they want to say that someone else has resolved them, they have resolved themselves. When we talk about SDP theories, perhaps all of what Bauk was saying is enough, given what we know, what was happening in the term of the Government of Zoran Milanovic from 2012 to 2015 might be justified to ask whether they were aware or were deliberately creating a policy that perhaps should have extradited us to the influence of a country outside the EU? That's one question that my colleague Bernardic could agree to, and I invite him to answer. If they've made moves, changed laws, changed decisions to hand us over as a state to someone else, and hopefully we'll discuss it in the future. As for his colleagues in the HSS, he wondered who had made certain decisions in the work of some years. So I remember this colleague, he was the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Tourism together in the coalition with HDZ, I don't know why he's in trouble now, and then he didn't mind it being visible that he wasn't even talking to the currency where the loans were granted by the creditors. But given the direction towards the HSS, we hear it will be a Croatian-liberal-liberal-liberal party and probably a major competition in the political space in the Republic of Croatia. And I'm going to finish again, with what we've been talking about all morning, and that's the state's relationship through Lex Agrokor and the relationship to the extraordinary commissioner and the relationship between the believers themselves. The believers decided to support Agrokor financially. Believers make any important decision concerning the availability of assets and the settlement. This means that, by law, the extraordinary administration and its decisions are under the control of the credentials as it should be. Because it is the believers who will have to make a settlement to find a way to collect their claims. So, what's the problem? The believers have decided to support Agrokor, they must agree to a settlement. The extraordinary administration represents a legal platform, and we are coming to the present situation. Why so much concern in Croatian politics about the fact that the creditors agreed in the first case on financial support? What's the problem? Agrockor's business is stabilized and we're going back to today to make this concert work. I don't think all the breaks after this will make any big sense except that we're wasting time but the facts are clear, the extraordinary administration is doing its job, the government is doing its job, and the Commercial Court also has its powers if something ever comes to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47682	Thank you very much. And he doesn't want to, you want to take a break? Okay, great, of course I'll give you a break. It's very successful and I think we're going to get far with it and the reputation of this House is going to grow so much in the eyes of the citizens, of course I'm giving you a break, with what in the context of the break?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47684	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club on the subject of today's current situation around Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47685	Okay. Then I'll see you again. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47686	It also pauses on the topicality of Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47687	Thank you. Anyone else want a break? You don't want to, that's weird. Then I'll see you at 1:00. MEETING IN 12.50 HOURS My colleagues and colleagues, here's the break expired, so I'm going to beg you in order for the clubs to come forward. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] First respected representative Predrag Matic on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there are no colleagues in Boris, but he has today expressed his view that he is also accusing that the opposition led by the SDP is working against and desiring the failure of Agrokor. Maybe there could be a quote from Zdravko Mamić who says I'm not cursing anyone, but damned be he who thinks and desires it. So I am sure that in Croatia whoever wants the failure of Agrokor simply does not love this country and speaks against the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Just what my colleague Boric is saying today, he needs to know that technology is recording everything, everything is being remembered. And I remember an event from about a year and a half ago when also colleague Shucker, in his capacity as head of the HDZ Club, defended some of the difficulties about not voting with the government and it was seen from the plane and that he was uncomfortable and that he simply didn't believe what he was saying. That's what my colleague Boric reminds me of today, I'd like to be wrong. What's the opposition looking for? We ask the Prime Minister to come and reassure us of what we listen to and read today and these days. We chose him and, as the People's proverb says, the Parliament is greater and only God can cross. It may have been Tudjman for a while, but that was before. I called among other things and as a Croatian defender, the very term of the threat to the national interests of Croatian defenders is very disturbing because some would say they were bleeding their underpants so that someone would sell Croatia to us now and make their own private farts out of it. Croatian defenders remember very well in the '90s while they were in the trenches and in Serbian concentration camps that 200 selected Croatian families broke up the Croatian state and that is why we now have what we have. I think it is now with the threat of Agrokor that Croatia has been in the most difficult situation since the Homeland War. They say Ramljak's contract is unbreakable and it's even harder than Neymar's. And we'd like to hear it here if it's really true. And we expect the President of the Government to come to us here and brief us on everything and calm the entire public down. Because I don't think it would be too much of a problem for him to hear, to come here and with his calmly beautiful voice to reason and the opposition and the entire Croatian public that this is all about what we're saying today that it's for some maybe attractive and interesting but it doesn't impress him at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47690	Thank you. The Honorable counsel Shuker has raised a breach of his rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47691	Mr. Vice President, you had to warn fellow Matic that he had injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238. As I was saying then and today, Croatia should not have issued bonds at such a high price because of political instability. If you think that's not true, that's your problem. So it made me uncomfortable that it was such a high bond price because the two of them were fighting on the roost and that was to be paid by Croatian citizens. And that's when my colleague Maric did the right thing when he didn't give up the bonds. And that's a fact, and that's what I said then, and that's what I'm saying. And another thing, I'm glad great experts in finance and economy are talking about this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47692	Thank you very much. I estimate it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, as it wasn't even a violation of the Rules of Procedure's Tales and Myth, a repeated myth about 200 families, but that is, it all comes into the freedom of parliamentary discussion. We can get from this pay phone, unfortunately there's been a lot of untruths, a lot of wrong things, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47693	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. All morning, we, as Parliamentarians, have been asking for what we need, I see no reason not to have Prime Minister Plenkovic come to this House, the House that gave him the legitimacy to be Prime Minister. I don't know why he won't come, we don't even have the chairman in this House, no meaning of information whether he wants to come or doesn't want Prime Minister Plenkovic to answer these questions that are being asked in the House. I believe that both HDZ colleagues, Shucker and other colleagues, have no problem with coming here as prime minister, which should be his obligation in this case and to address the public and us people's representatives. If there's nothing to say then he can't do that duty anymore, it's time to leave, it's time for those who know what's going on finally to come forward, this suspension means the rights and the law that we've passed in this House, it means systemically important companies. Therefore, I see no reason why Prime Minister Plenkovic does not answer and come to this House in front of parliamentary deputies and respond to parliamentary deputies' questions. If it's not important economic sovereignty, and that's the constitutional obligation of the government, the MPs, this body as a roof body, then I don't know what it is. So who is Prime Minister Plenkovic afraid of? Assembly representatives? People? Why not come to this greatest crisis since the end of the Homeland War and why not answer the problems in which the law has now been found, i.e. The law that passed this Parliament and by contract is suspended? Will our funds run our economic system, our scavenger funds? Or if he has any other information, let him and Mr. Ramljak explain it to us in public. Does the Croatian government have more influence on Agrokor concert? I think Mr. Schucker, as former finance minister among us, should clearly call the prime minister on the phone and tell him and come here and explain to the public and the parliamentary representatives what this is all about. Well, I called this morning and the National Security Committee, and there are national interests at stake here, to call on them, and to conclude that they are heading towards the Prime Minister and towards everyone to whom that conclusion should be directed. I also call on the President of the Republic in front of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the Most High to call on the National Security Council. Sometimes he leaves Dubrovnik now, so I guess by the end of the day he'll be able to call on the Council as the most important body, or he'll only be accompanied by a few statements. This is a serious matter, it has turned up serious, so the documents in public, and we really need to talk about these documents and we need to draw conclusions, we MPs. Well, Andrei Plenkovic can't think of this, so these aren't the Brussels halls, so he's pinching his butt with Juncker and waving towards him while the Croatian strategic interest is at stake. We expect a minimum of decency from the Prime Minister to come before this largest body, as the body has just been told, only God is above it. Well, he can't humiliate this body, so this isn't the dictatorship of Andrej Plenkovic. Well, you lot should be the one who's supposed to be looking for those answers, because of yourself. I am surprised that they have no reaction, otherwise they were always the first to react by Greguric, Valentić, Linic, all those who held the Croatian state, allowed this system to be compromised and to be held by Todorovic's neck. The silence came, but the prime minister must come, he must come, gentlemen, fellow parliamentary deputies, being with the majority, were out of opposition. Come and answer these questions, you are bound to the people, this is not the dictatorship of Andrej Plenkovic, this is the Republic of Croatia. And you know the electoral system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47694	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I also called before you invited your colleague Maras to an individual hearing. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP club to discuss the situation in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47696	Okay. Is there any other club that might want to take part in this? No, obviously. Then of course I'll set a break by 13.40. It's 13:30. My colleagues and colleagues, here is the time of the break, so now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a distinguished representative of Domagoj Hajduković will speak. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13,40 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47698	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we have announced, so we are looking for a break until the Prime Minister speaks to us about the situation in Agrokor. For months, the SDP warned that the HDZ government had passed a harmful law, so-called. Lex Agrokor. That she brought it practically overnight. That even today we don't know who wrote this law, that there are big doubts that it wasn't written by the Government who was the Proposer. Unfortunately, as the situation develops, more and more it turns out that we were absolutely right. Mr. Ante Ramljak is an extraordinary commissioner, so he's constantly titled. Or a chief advisor. But I'm asking you who's an extraordinary commissioner? If he was named by the government of the Republic of Croatia, then I guess the government is an extraordinary commissioner. If the Government is an extraordinary commissioner, then it is responsible for its actions to the one who appointed it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. A loan agreement signed by Agrokor with certain funds, so-called The scavenger funds that we have had opportunity to see in the media today are extremely harmful by Agrokor or by this off-force contract are practically placed in one part of the so-called ". Lex Agrokora. The creditor has the power to adopt and implement the settlement of creditors and the restructuring of Agrokor, and this has no Commissioner or Government. The government cannot even replace Anta Ramljak, or an extraordinary commissioner without consent, or that investment funds or creditors do not approve. It has been mentioned before that disputes are settled under Anglo-Saxon law rather than in Croatian. Many times we have had the opportunity to hear from the right side of the assembly that we give up our sovereignty, how do we not defend Croatian interests, and what is this but a denial of sovereignty? What is this but not defending Croatian interests? Forty thousand people who still work in Agrokor concerts don't seem to care. At least a third of the Croatian economy is no longer interested. If this is not a national interest, if this is not Croatia's interest, then I don't know what it is. The Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, has a duty to come here and address this Vishko home even if he tells us that he is not as impressed as he loves it. But he has a duty to come. This is the Dom's choice. This is the Dom's answer. And through this House corresponds to the Croatian people, the Croatian voters who chose us all here. If there's nothing to hide, if the situation is as clear as the HDZ colleagues claim, then I really don't see what the problem is to come here and talk to us. Or the Prime Minister, just like the finance minister, wants to be excused from Agrokor. Well, I guess we'll all be exempt from Agrokor and exempt from Croatia, and what are we doing here, who's going to defend Croatian interests, who's going to defend 40,000 jobs, who's going to defend the financial interests of the state, who's going to defend our citizens? No one, let's all take turns. The SDP will not be excluded and we ask the Prime Minister to come and talk to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47699	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, the hand was raised by a respected representative, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47701	On behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a break to discuss the situation in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47702	Great. Is there another club that might want that? No, I don't. All right, then I'll see you at 2:00. [[It's a 13,50 o'clock meeting.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS]] Here is a colleague and co-worker's break, and on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Franko Vidovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47704	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so I asked for a break because in principle we agreed to take advantage of all business opportunities to bring the prime minister to the Parliament, as well as the Minister of Economy, Ms Martin Dalic. Why do we want to do that? Because the entire Croatian public and so do we who are representatives in this House deserve answers to certain questions after the so-called contract has been published. Roll up lending and for which it is visible that it is very unfavourable, not only for Agrokor but for the Republic of Croatia. That contract contains several, I'd say harmful provisions and indeed borders if it were all so, I haven't had the opportunity to see the whole contract as none of you have seen it, if it really is all so, then it is a national betrayal. It's worse than what happened in the '90s, much worse. So I'm absurd that the government appoints the basis of the law of its commissioner and then can't invite him because he's threatened with the possibility that with a few hundred million, billions, I don't know anymore, that's where we throw ourselves at those numbers like it's kuna or two. I'm no longer able to figure out which coins, or how many billions, believe me. Therefore, the entire Croatian public deserves an answer to these questions, it is a debt that will fall just as I warned Mr. Bačić when he was alone at the vote and debate on the law. It is a debt that will fall on the burden of Croatian taxpayers, on the burden of Croatian taxpayers, on my burden, on yours, on yours, on my children and who knows how long we will pay it. This is worse if it's really true, this is worse than Sanader ever did. Therefore, I want the Prime Minister to understand the seriousness of the situation, we are elected MPs, everyone... in his constituency received a number of votes and came to this House. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the name of those voters who chose us, we have the right to discuss it. All this time HDZ has been trying to stop the Investigative Commission, waiting for the very very beginning of the investigation itself, and then allowed the Investigative Commission to shut it down again, so you don't even know what to do with that commission anymore. Secondly, the prime minister needs to answer the question of who wrote the Law on Agrokor, when he wrote it and why it is not enough at all to answer by the government's commissioner, the current Ramljak, that it was done by external legal and financial experts. Now we see that maybe these experts are sitting in some of the scavenger funds that got involved in Agrokor and it's not just Knighthead, there's more. The second question, why did the Commissioner meet before the representatives of the Knighthead Fund, before he even became Commissioner 7, 10 days ago, what is the common theme? I have to say like, after all, like a man coming from Sibenik and maybe he was making the same story for TLM himself, with so-called. Russian, let's call it the tycoon Shamis. Furthermore, why is the Prime Minister, and I say I want to believe in his good intentions, why has the Prime Minister allowed such a contract? Why did he let the government commissioner sign a contract like this? These are all questions and many more, to which the prime minister should answer. Who was meeting, why was he meeting, what were they sharing? What kind of external, external and legal financial experts are doing bonafide. I don't know a guy like that. How much are they paid if they're paid? And they're not paid because they're gone, but there are. Therefore, the opposition will use, in particular, all business opportunities to discuss this topic in the presence of Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Dalic in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47705	Thank you very much. I see he's raised his hand to Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47743	On behalf of the club MOST for 10 minutes, I ask you to approve it for the threat of the economic sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47744	Thank you very much. Then we'll have a break again. Anyone else want one? The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47745	I'm asking the Honorable Vice President on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club for a 10-minute break to discuss the harmfulness of Lex Agrokor whose consequences are now visible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47746	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47747	Thank you. Also on the same topic, the SDP club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47748	Thank you very much. So I'll see you at 2:30. It's a meeting at 14.20 p.m. My colleagues and colleagues, here's our break, we've got three clubs, so first I'm going to ask the distinguished representative, Mira Bulj, to take a word on behalf of the club of representatives of the Most Independent Lists. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.30 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47750	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, the government's obligations, the prime ministers, who have sworn their oath to the President of the Parliament and to our parliamentary deputies, when economic sovereignty or any crisis situation is at stake, the least they need to do is show respect for this House of Commons because people's representatives are sitting here. However, the Prime Minister will not answer, let alone come to this House, which is only as God has said, above it as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned. The key decisions that must take place, should happen in Parliament, this is not another repeat, dictatorship. To go one step further, some time ago, the Agrokor Commission met which was chosen in this House. Of course, according to information, media presence on this commission has been prohibited for 40 minutes, whether the media should be present to this commission. Of course HDZ was against media attendance and the public knowing what was going on in the commission and what was being discussed. Of course it's from Vladimir Shakespeare's workshop because basically he's running the government because you remember him, when he came up from this balcony in the hall, when there was an overload, he was lifting his finger, he was putting his finger down like Caesar. In fact, this is more Vladimir Seks's government, and that's what his interview testifies, that he's relocated the government with Vrdoljak, with minorities, and that he's the one who's basically Andreja, and I don't even call him Prime Minister, he did everything. So to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, you must come among the elected representatives and tell the truth about the contract that went public. The truth is whether Lex Agrokor's law is delegated in that contract and whether the Government has the same authority in the law as it was voted here. If not, this Parliament has lost that part of sovereignty today. Mr Ramljak must speak publicly and loudly here in Parliament, publicly to us on questions about what was going on with the roll-up loans, whether, by Angolan law, the Croatian state was left without influence or had a minor impact in the whole of Agrokor, a concert that was created we know how. So you know who was the most opposed to opening the archives? You remember that. She was an empty assembly. Those who created Agrokor. Well, I'm curious, and here I am personally interested in the public, which doesn't sound like the creators of that concert or how they find Pedro. Neither the media nor politics back a few years, a year, two days ago, was allowed to mention Ivica Todorovic, was their favorite, former Minister Suker knows, paint with them, drive, give him the importance. He wasn't supposed to be mentioned by anyone, and now he's Pedro. Now Pedro is only Todorovic and Valentić, Greguric, Mateša, Škegro, Linić is on the sidelines of this economic difficult situation and observe, of course, they are not there. They're gone. Where are these gentlemen now? Where's Shakespeare? Let him answer with his wisdom. With its sizes in the free Republic of Croatia, which is covered with blood. And there is hardly any freedom and today we have in front of us a contract that is occupied by part of Croatia. It's not for the first time, it's the same for operators, telecommunications, banks, and we wonder where the people are, where they're young. The young go to Prime Minister Plenkovic, come to this pay phone, it is your duty to answer to the Parliament, it is prescribed to you by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47751	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representative Club, the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47752	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here these days are all the adverse consequences of the adoption of Lex Agrokor by the Government of the Coalition HDZ and MOST in April of this year, and it is now clear that all those who voted against the adoption of that law, including our club, were right. Namely, this law has not solved the key problems that allegedly led to the law being passed, which is to collect claims for suppliers and bring the company into financial stability. As we can see from the documents that are increasingly intensely appearing in the media, the only ones that will be charged by Agrokor are vulture funds from different countries, we see that they are from the United States, Hong Kong and also a small part of the banks from Goldman Sachs and those banks that are deeply involved in the illegal activities of Agrokor like Zagrebačka and Erste banka. This law, among other things, should not have been passed at all because it sends a very bad message to Croatian citizens, a very bad message about the trust of the institution because, as we know, an ordinary Croatian citizen, therefore one who does not belong to a very narrow circle of privileged tycoons and politicians, simply has to bear all the consequences of his poor business so that companies, entrepreneurs, OPGs and ordinary citizens are blocked by several hundred kunas of debt. They're being sent into bankruptcy, they're coming to their doors to take away their property, they're being kicked out of their homes, and in this case we see that someone who's worth 50 billion kuna, still doesn't even have a blocked account today, let alone to take away property that represents castles, villas, islands, yachts, the most expensive limousines, etc. The state should not have interfered in this case, it simply should have left Agrokor to the market to charge those who deserve it the most and these are just suppliers, but the state should have done its part in a way to punish all those involved in the guessing of Agrokor and by state institutions. There were several dozen likely to be more than a hundred criminal returns that would include members of the Agrokor administration, so former ministers, the Tax Administration, then the HANFA, then HAGENA, which was to oversee the investment of pension funds We have an incredible situation that pension funds, which are among other things your pensions, suffered the loss of several billion kunas due to the risky investment in Agrokor. And for that someone should answer, for that someone should answer, and not now that we have a situation to talk about some Lex Agrokor, and most importantly, that Croatia is exposed to serious lawsuits and the Boss is offered an alibi that he is now doing himself a victim because this law was allegedly imposed on him, was forced on him at some night meetings, not to say the methods. Also, the authorities at no cost should have allowed him to leave the country the moment this crisis broke out and, as we can see, it happened and now all the DORH and all the judicial institutions have somehow turned out to be ridiculous. In the end, it should be said that the SDPs who are persistently looking for breaks on the subject of Lex Agrokor and their governments have implemented a completely equal policy towards the company as well as HDZ and have brought it into a position in which it is. I just needed to mention, I don't know how many times Minister of Finance Shuker or Škegro, how many times they spoke with praise at the government, eventually, Prime Minister Plenkovic brought one of the directors of Agrokor to the government, but also Finance Minister Mate Churchvenac, Racanov, appointed Deputy Director of Agrokor himself. Therefore, both of them are deeply involved, and both of them should suffer the consequences, both of which should essentially resign in order to make this situation finally clear. I doubt the commission will do its job as it belongs, and I also doubt that the judiciary will, I think, do so only with election results.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47753	Thank you. Next SDP advocates' club, distinguished representative Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47754	... The fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, always the easiest thing to do is to relativize the matter, and that means not to think about what's most important, and that's let him do his part of the job, and your job means let everyone answer for any move that he possibly missed to do at any time, no problem is. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I think it's a message that's been used here all the time, trying to even up and use it cheaply, politically enough, it's all your fault for Agrokor, okay. We set things differently, we had a private company, a market, capitalism, it's a situation in which we should deal with bankruptcy, in front of bankruptcy, but we brought Lex Agrokor here, in this House, and not all of them, there was no unity about it. We warned even then that it was a harmful law, today the evidence comes out that it was a completely missed move and that much less damage would have been to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia if it had been under these conditions. However, the unknown authors of this same law that they are hiding, perhaps it would be best to ask this question here in the House for who knows which time to take 100 breaks, perhaps to find out who those who have made such a law in which we have come to this state in view of the number of jobs, given the importance of this concert, given how much damage this country can suffer, is exposed to, who? The scavengers. Now I'm saying this for another reason because I'm on the MOST initiative because I think this is the moment where we can take every good initiative, tomorrow I've called a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and they're asking why we're very simply, if we're dealing with earthquakes, floods, police actions, etc., then maybe it's never been more important or a better time to figure out what kind of earthquake is going on here. Unfortunately not only about the earthquake, not only about the flood, not just about the threat of national interest, but about the situation in which we in the newspapers have to read about what kind of problem we've been brought into after all these months of secrets and games behind hidden doors and situations where there's so much news going on in every one of our fellow citizens, because the moment you get the information that they're going to collect nothing but food food, then you really need to be worried. For this reason, I hope that there will be responsibilities among all those who are interested in solving this burning problem at the moment, not looking at the political color but at the willingness to defend exactly what our task is, which is chosen from the citizens to defend them. Plato said a long time ago that it's easy to be betrayed with other people's money, if you want me to translate it into Croatian, it's easy to beat someone else's clay. What's more important to me is that this House has a responsibility, we as Parliamentarians and MPs have a responsibility to launch all possible mechanisms to finally come here not only to show up as prime minister but to finally get answers. The answers that interest the Croatian public, the answers that are very important to us because tomorrow when it comes to paying, then someone will remember again, not us, some others have decided. Now it is our responsibility and in the SDP we will continue to seek a break, we will continue to highlight the new topic, respecting this particular circumstance, and that is that there are no more important questions for me at this moment which can shake Croatia just like the topic of Agrokora. This government is no longer in control of the situation. This is out of control, this is a variant in which scavengers are very simple and the word itself speaks, the scavengers, the corpses, however you like, have a chance to take a lot of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47755	Thank you. Dear Representative Babic is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47776	On behalf of the SDP club, I'm asking on the subject of Agrokor. Then on the subject of the edge of Todorovic, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47777	Okay. Of course, I'll see you at 3 and 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47778	Dear Vice President, I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on the matter of the Commission's work on Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47779	Thank you very much. How could I have thought otherwise? Is there another club that wants to pick up? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 3 and 5. Party at 14.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47780	Thank you, Mr. President. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.05 HOURS]] Here is the SDP, of course, using all its business opportunities to invite the prime minister to answer the current questions that relate to the Lex Agrokor and all the circumstances that follow it. Of course, since the law was passed, we have warned of his transparency, asked questions about who wrote the same law, and with what intentions. The time behind us shows that the intentions obviously weren't even good, because it's the process of getting where you don't know who it's for and why everything's all set all at once overnight becomes actual it can't end differently than it does and as it happens now. We are coming to know that Commissioner Ante Ramljak is in contact with suspicious funds before the very beginning of these unsavory events, and then we discover contracts that he has signed with them and leaves one great doubt over the entire population, throughout the country. There are open questions, but the answers are not coming. That is why we want Prime Minister Plenkovic to come to the Parliament and to set out, and to give the correct and clear answers which is Mr Ramljak's connection to the disputed fund, which is, where there is a state interest. Which is why contracts become more important than the law itself that we know has been passed, and the whole time parallel has now fallen into the second plan of what is most important where Ivica Todoric is. Why must Croatia be ashamed again that we have fugitive number one in Europe under a red warrant. Why do you get the impression that he's stalling? Why was it announced, announced until it went into action and now it's gone. The press is waiting in England to find the man, he's gone. Now a second story has come, and suddenly the main actor and main witness in the Agrocora topic just isn't and we're safe in the eyes of the world's public we're turning out to be a funny state. We're breaking our own ratings. It's simple and here we have today our first session of the Agrokor Committee. They only discuss whether it should be open or closed to the press. I think in this whole process there are too many tossing clips at everyone who wants this procedure to be simple and more transparent, to simply give citizens answers. Many, great debts are on the back of Agrocora. Try to imagine any company in Croatia that has a debt per employee already from a million kuna. Unfortunately, these past periods have been tolerated. But the man who needs to answer that question and the public doesn't have the answers. Unfortunately, here I got the impression that it was done on purpose, that the main actor of this situation that led to the whole turbulence,... It also reflected in the region, the whole Balkans where Mr. Todorovic was doing business, and the assumptions are that he was preparing jobs and a little further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we want the Prime Minister to come to the Croatian Parliament and finally both to us and to the citizens to answer the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47781	Thank you. The second is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, respected counterpart Miroslav Šimic. Here you go. And instead of him, dear colleague Podolnjak, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47782	... esteemed colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] At this point in the assembly there are twenty MPs present, which means that at this point we do not have a quorum in the Assembly, but we hold a session as usual, as is regular, as we are aware of these facts on a daily basis except when the Croatian Parliament votes. So, the rule is we don't have a quorum in the assembly, but according to Rules of Procedure, the Parliament can hold a session. The same applies to the working bodies of this House. It often happens that at some point in the working body's session there is no quorum, but the session is held, voting on certain points when most members are present at the session. Why am I saying that? Because at today's session of the Agrokor Committee, I guess I don't know how long. I know it's been two years since I've been in this Croatian Parliament. Some would say that perhaps much longer, and it has been decided today on the Rules of Procedure of the Investigative Commission, in which at the request of parliamentary majority representatives who have five out of nine members, the following is decided that the Commission may hold meetings and make decisions if the majority of the members of the Committee are present at the meeting. It was not in the election draft, it was a proposal for a parliamentary majority amendment. What does that amendment say? That meetings can be held and decisions can only be made with the presence of most members of the commission. It is not disputed that this second part can be decided when most members are present at the session. It's common. No body can decide if there is no quorum to decide. But that it cannot even hold a session is something that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure by which this Croatian Parliament works and by which the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament work. So everything we witness in this assembly or in the working bodies, to individual committees, where there are situations where working bodies hold a session but vote when they have quorum. Unfortunately, because of the commission's decision, so most members who voted on this provision, I repeat, parliamentary majority, the commission's work is practically disabled, and if the chairman of the committee calls for a session, it cannot even begin in the event that 5 of the 9 members are not present. Quite the opposite of the practice of this Croatian Parliament, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, everything on which parliamentary work is based, at least this 2 years since I am and this Rules of Procedure is older than the Most Independent Lists in the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, and the decision was taken without public presence, so in secret, this Rules of Procedure was made to deny the possibility of the media being present at the time when this provision was being embezzled because it is in fact in fact making work impossible. Unfortunately, it could be said in advance that this provision has been put in place in order to call on the first next session of the Investigation Commission, with the absence of the parliamentary majority and its MPs, to prevent the meetings from starting at all, to examine any witness and to virtually disable the work of the Investigative Commission. The Rules of Procedure, which was adopted today and this provision, were unfortunately done by the parliamentary majority and it is up to us to tell the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47783	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47791	Mr. Glavasevic called, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the SDP Club of Croatia, I am looking for a break because of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47793	And maybe you're ready to talk about it right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47794	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, I'd like a break of at least 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47795	You need to get ready a little bit more. Thank you, all right. Ten minutes off, 16 and 20 are here. Who else? Here you go, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47796	Here's a thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS club on the subject of problems in Croatian agriculture and related to the Agrokor case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47797	And that's the same 10 minutes, so I'll meet you again at 16 and 20. Next? Here you go, Mr. Sagar. And, Mr. Bull, I didn't think you'd answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47798	10 minutes' break on behalf of the MOST Club on the right of information in case of work by the Commission on Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47799	Thank you very much. It's that same 10 minutes again. Next up, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47800	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break for some new information.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47801	Thank you very much. Ten minutes, enough, enough, I'll meet you at 16 and 21 minutes. [[It's 4:00. 11 o'clock.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,21 HOURS]] Mr. Glavasevic, approach the speaker, take your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The situation that we're witnessing today and the situation that my colleagues and colleagues have been talking about before me in some way reminded me of Sheno's history of the Postolar and the devil, where HDZ is in this metaphor a carpenter and this whole ruin of Agrodor is exactly the Devil that has come. In that history, there are those few verses that say, "The past time, the deadline, well, hell, jump on the jump." So let's remember a little bit, so the situation has arisen, the situation has been complicated enough even before HDZ octrophe of Croatia lex Agrokor. We don't really know who wrote this law today. We know there were lawyers who boasted in Zagreb's cafes that they were the ones who wrote those, Lex Agrokor. We know there was no task force, we know there was no impact assessment of the regulations, we know that the law was fully non-transparency. We've been asking questions about this situation to the government of the Republic of Croatia, and we haven't received any answers. Then they surfaced information about how Mr Ramljak had contact with Knighthead before he was appointed Commissioner, so before Lex Agrokor was brought in, before the whole legislative procedure. We didn't get an answer to the question in which Mr. Ramljak met with Knighthead at the time. And it is justified then to ask, especially in light of this information that has surfaced today, whether Mr Ramljak is actually a Commissioner or an embezzlement. Then there's the question of this famous roll-up which is in some way a violation of Lex Agrokor. So she's one of the most common frauds in the order of collection. It's all hidden data. So we don't even know the exact composition of the roll-up participants, we don't even know the exact amount in which they're participating in the loan, again the non-transparency that's kind of a signature in this situation. Then there was the secretion of the details of the loan itself, of the arrangement itself for months. It was only 4 months later that Knighthead signed up to a few companies in a concert. Only 4 months later, details were made that 56% of the debt was paid immediately, practically the next day. It was only 4 months later that it became clear that participants roll up loans were actually placed in a privileged position in front of other creditors. And then, of course, this resulted in exactly what the SDP Representatives Club warned the government of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ itself had lost control of Agrokora. Nothing currently the government of the Republic of Croatia can do in Agrokor without Knighthead. That's what we saw in this contract at the end of the day, the details of which came out today. Knighthead actually got the powers that the government of the Republic of Croatia should have. Why, say, all disputes are being delegated outside Croatia? Why are all the disputes in the domain of Anglo-Saxon law? In Croatia, continental law is practiced. This is actually about a partial loss of sovereignty. I mean, those are hard words, but that's just it. So the HDZ that swears on the free market has passed the law, has cut down the law that would be shamed and some hard socialist regimes. So what we're looking at today is capitalism the way HDZ sees it and how he's seen it since the '90s on here, that's that dude capitalism. So HDZ now, through this, reaps what it sown in the '90s in conversion and privatisation. And what's going to happen? Croatia is at a loss. And when the time comes to resolve the consequences of this, when it is time for someone to repair the damage that HDZ has done to Croatia, it will not do to HDZ, it will work again as anyone else has done to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47804	Thank you, too. Now in front of the HSS club, Mr. Zeljko Lenart is entitled to five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47805	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to talk about this pause on the situation that threatens Croatian agriculture with this Agrokor affair. We know that these days a harvest of soy corn has been completed, or it is near the end, that the crops are stored in silos, normally not paid because payment never goes immediately. I wonder what will happen to what is in the silos, the companies that are in the Agrokor Group that have stored the agricultural products of our family farms and those who have stored their products in their silos. Since the drought has destroyed Slavonia, our economies have achieved significantly less yields and even 50% less than expected will be difficult to deal with. And if what they have stored in silos ends somewhere else, not to get that money, but to confiscate one of these scavenger funds or those who are the believers of Agrokor, I wonder if this Croatian village that has already been destroyed will it be able to survive this kind of blow. That's what everyone needs to think about, because it's all going that way. What will happen to taxpayers' money, which will be paid in the form of support for agriculture to Agrokor companies, or which have been paid. It's about 40,000 acres that are leased or concessioned by Agrokor Group times 2500 kn, probably more, so calculate that part. I wonder, and we all have to ask ourselves, what will happen to agricultural land, owned by Agrokor companies engaged in agricultural activities. Will that land end up in the hands of these scavenger funds? There are so many questions only from this area of agriculture that we could discuss very, very differently, because this Agrokor affair is very deep water and I don't think anyone knows today, which is going to come out of all this. What I predict, the collapse of the Croatian village, the collapse of those who have invested their work, who have invested for many years in their properties, in their machines, in their knowledge, in their land. The entire families, fates, certain families, particularly the milkmen are in the hands of those who today led to where the Republic of Croatia is located, where the largest Agrokor concert is located, in which they all invested, which dictated the prices of agricultural products and everything that was going on in the agriculture sector. And today, not only dictates prices, but threatens to take what farmers acquired during one difficult year of trial. Here's one of the questions that we need to think about, all of us sitting here, who needs to be thought about by the government, the Ministry of Agriculture, and we have to worry very much about how our farmers are going to get out of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47806	Thank you, too. Mr. Sladolev, on behalf of the Bridge of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, after the Government, which most did not want to explain in detail the roll up model and why they chose this very model of lending, after they did not want to launch an investigative commission, they are still delaying and resisting it, and now first of all, we have found out today, that the public will not know what will be discussed on this investigation committee. I'm curious about what's next, if we Parliamentarians will be able to speak at all, and if here, as in the investigative committee, they're going to put a quorum in the Rules of Procedure, that there has to be a quorum, if not, that we have nothing to discuss. I think this situation has to stop right now. We're not interested in party bickering. We made clear our position on the government in April. The Croatian public must know what is happening on the investigating committee, and the technique of cover-up and pushing under the carpet must finally die in Croatian society in Croatian politics. As if it's not enough for you to have a diameter that speaks I can do what I want now as a puzzle agree the moments of a Commissioner who is not a Government, but who knows whose. And a ban on the media to hear the truth about Agrokor. Well, the truth can't be stopped, not one decision or one commission, the truth about this will come out eventually. So you can't stop the truth. Let the media be present on the investigative committee. Cancel this new decision by the regulations on the investigation committee for quorum. And you will be credible in front of the Croatian public and the public will in some way try to understand that you have nothing to hide, because this cover-up doesn't make any sense anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47808	Thank you, too, and for your compassion, too. Mr. Ivan Shuker, outside the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47809	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, a man often wonders when he is behind this pay phone, whether he has the right to politicize, politically talk about things that tang, not a few, but several hundred thousand people, and practically the whole state. So when certain laws are passed, they have their own clear goals. If I'm not mistaken, then I wasn't in this assembly. When Lex Agrokor was brought in, the government clearly set four basic goals. One is to prevent bankruptcy, the other is to prevent the loss of property, i.e., the cheap purchase of quality parts of the concert, the protection of jobs in the concert and what is most important to protect small and large and medium suppliers. And all together when it's summed up, it's about 100,000 jobs. A few months after the law was passed, where are we today? And I'm asking myself if anyone has the right to be someone's lawyer, if that guy didn't have the authority to be that lawyer. Why? So because, let's say, I quote, a representative of Mrs. Marica Vidakovic's large suppliers, I can absolutely say that I am proud of what we have done. We managed to preserve healthy tissue of the economy and managed to preserve the village. Almost no one believed we'd be able to charge that much in April this year, we're never satisfied, because we want to achieve more, which is human nature. Asked for a comment on this loan that was signed, which should have been given to the religious council, we here all the time chasing the notions that the government is managing Agrokora. The government doesn't run Agrokora at all. Agrokora is governed by the Commissioner and the Sanhedrin Council. So, Mrs. Vidakovic said, when it comes to the June credit agreement this year, I was doing mini-analysing, and that this is common when it comes to such a large financial engagement. So that's the statement of those who are directly concerned by this law. Which directly concerns this event. Because look unlike those who have defiled here today in front of this booth, these people have a responsibility to pay their salaries between the first and the 15th of the month. So they have a responsibility to secure people's wages. And if a model hadn't been found to cover certain claims, they wouldn't have been able to pay off those salaries. How many bankruptcys would be triggered at this point, would anyone be asking yourself that question? No one asks themselves that question, but someone wants to collect cheap political points. The second thing, if we are discussing the arguments of our colleague and colleagues, the objective of the HDZ was to make a revised financial report in 7 months, to make a review, to discuss this financial report at a joint session of the Committee on Economy and Finance, and to then make a decision on the Commission's investigation. And look what's going on? Mr. Ramljak delivers a report, a revised financial report. There's three basics in there. When did this story about this creative accounting thing start? Very interesting 2012. When did the sudden growth of borrowing begin in 2013? When did the regressive bonds go off? 2013 and 2014 Was HDZ in power then? It's not. But in the meantime, some laws were passed, and HDZ was not in the government at the time. Now those who were responsible for the management of the state at the time are the ones who shout the most. And what's very interesting is we have an independent regulator that's HANFA. The former government has always given a positive opinion on their report. Did they warn that in one country, however, Croatia is turning the turnover of 14 billion kunas annually. That's a hell of a lot for Croatia. Mrs. Pusic, I'm asking you nicely a little courtesy yes. I'm asking you to include what the lady wants to take away from me. You know what, the worst thing is when people get hit and then they go. Oh, no? So, did the independent regulator react then? It's not. And who changed the HANFA Law in 2012? Who warned you not to do that? Who replaced Mr. Samodol? It's not the HDZ government, it's someone else, and that's why it's who it is. So we can discuss facts, we can discuss numbers, we can discuss responsibility. Each of those who participated in certain processes, but all the financial problems of Agrokor were created between 2012 and 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47810	Please, nice! If you'd like to go outside and talk, please! Go outside and talk to me. Please! What? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47851	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I am asking for a 10 minute break so that they can state their views on the current problems in the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47852	Can't you do it now? It's classic, it's good. Ten minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47853	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the HSS Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on the issue of poverty, emigration and connection to the problem of Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47854	Thank you very much. No one else? 17 and 16 minutes. Thank you very much. It's 17.06 p.m. Mr. Sasa Djujic asked for a break on behalf of the SDP Club, he is entitled to 5 minutes. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 17:15 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Somewhere in the spring of this year, Croatia hit a crisis in Agrokor. In the beginning, information about the difficulties in the business of Agrokor began to leak to the public, of course all through the media. It then leaks information about secret meetings in the government by Mr Todorovic, various ministers, President-in-Office of the Parliament, etc., and then at one point even members of the government go public and admit that Agrokor has difficulties in business. That the entire Croatian economy is at risk, that the business of suppliers is at risk with the masquerade of domestic companies such as Kras, Frank and many others. And the result, as a result of some thinking in the government, was lex Agrokor. Lex Agrokor, who was supposed to lead to the exit of Agrokor from the crisis, that is to save the company, save jobs but at the very beginning of this Lex Agrokor there were a series of issues, a series of problems, a series of concerns that we in the SDP have been asking, warning and asking questions all along in this House of Commons. The SDP has been warning all these months about a series of illogicalities around Agrokor, asking a number of questions, asking answers to a number of questions such as who wrote lex Agrokor which we don't even know today. Every day in the media we get some new information so that today and yesterday information comes out that it's been suffocating and suffocating all the time with privileged information, that little that's left of Agrokora's bees. But we're also interested in who's been affected by who, who's the government's role, what's been done and who's done everything. Therefore, the SDP is initiating a request for the launch of the Agrekor Investigation Commission. And for several months now, we have been witnessing that HDZ is fiercely resisting and fighting this commission, firstly to form it in general, to begin with its work at all. Then at the end when we managed to put pressure on HDZ to agree to set up a commission, they did it about 15 days ago and today we see with the fig in our pocket and basically all the time HDZ is trying to obstruct the work of the commission, trying to shut it down. Well, then every week we have a trick one, some new trick that should explain why we don't need the commission, why the Croatian public shouldn't get answers to questions, why shouldn't we know what's in Agrokor, like now doing something about the judiciary, so we have laws, so now they're not even the laws that matter anymore. So today they adopted an amendment that changes the way the commission works so that it cannot work without the fact that it is a single example today in the history of Croatian Parliamentarianism because no commission has ever worked in such a way and that is exclusively to prevent its work. Even the president today urged that the commission should continue to work, that some things should be enlightened. The only one who does not want the commission to work and to know the truth is HDZ, Prime Minister Plenkovic, Mrs Dalic and other members of the government. Another question being raised is what's really going on there, who's pulling the money. And who are we looking for answers from? From the one who claims to know everything, to keep everything under control and that's the Prime Minister. And today, the SDP has been asking for either the Prime Minister or the Vice-President of the Government of Dalic to address us all day, but they did not come to this High House but did not send a message, ignoring the Croatian Parliament, ignoring the citizens and not wanting to show interest at all. And that is the highlight of the boast they show me everything I want, as the prime minister said the other day, so I can ignore the Croatian Parliament, I can ignore the questions of Croatian citizens, I can ignore Croatian national interests and I don't have to account for anyone. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, you can't. And it can't do that. And the SDP will continue to insist on the arrival of the prime minister in this house, we will continue with all the permits and possible means available to try to answer these questions that we have been asking for months. And we do it primarily because of responsibility even though we were called to have no responsibility, because of responsibility for Croatian citizens, because of Croatian companies, because of jobs and suppliers and all those who are threatened by the crisis in Agrokor and we hope to get answers from the government, we do not trust in St. Antu as Minister Dalic, but only in rational matters. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47857	Thank you, too. Mr Davor Vlaovic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47858	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club, I asked for a break to discuss the problem of poverty, the departure of young people from the Republic of Croatia and the causal ties to Agrokor. Yesterday, a TV company conducted a survey on whether we parliamentary representatives know that in the Republic of Croatia more than a million people are poor. A devastating fact and it is true for all of us that we really have so many poor people in the Republic of Croatia. The greatest threat to poverty is in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. 75% of citizens don't believe in the direction this country is heading. Today we are discussing a situation in the judiciary where most and employees in the judiciary but also citizens do not believe in the judicial system and that we are all equal before the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. And that is precisely the big problem that has caused more than 100,000 young people from the Republic of Croatia to leave both Slavonia and Baranja and other parts of the Republic of Croatia and what we are doing, what we are doing through this legislative framework that we are coming here and what we are doing in an operational sense in the implementation of these same laws. Citizens simply do not believe in the judicial system or what we are doing to change the situation because so far young people have left mostly unemployed, now they are leaving and employees who have had solid incomes because for these very reasons they do not believe in the direction in which the Republic of Croatia neither believe in the judiciary nor believe in the economic recovery of these undeveloped areas and the equal approach of the state through the competent state bodies to the even development of the Republic of Croatia. Where the greatest threshold is, or the risk of poverty, I said by statistics in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and there is Agrokor through its companies a large presence. And what is our concern and what is here to object about, which has already been said by a colleague, that a large part of the agricultural products that our OPG reaped this autumn ended up in silos owned by a company called Agrokor. What will happen to that crop, whether they will be paid, and we are also witnessing that we have declared droughts, I have already spoken about it, the damages of over 500 million kunas from drought in Slavonia are expected, there is no answer to how these agricultural producers will be compensated. They are referred to rural development measures, a measure of P2 where they cannot report due to the lost income of reduced income and income, it is an unacceptable cost. On the other hand, of course we feel for the citizens of Zadar County, the city of Zadar and Nin. As soon as they talked about the problems, about the great damages that happened there, the prime ministers called them, promised 100 million kuna, and for Slavonia and drying nothing. And then what's true, where are we equal citizens? The mayor of Slavonski Brod also wrote to the government, no response. I expect to get answers here too and to help the agricultural producers of Slavonia and Baranja. And about Agrokor and these problems of paying off crops, so far it has been correct and it is necessary to keep those jobs and those companies in the Agrokor concert and no political party is against it, but we are afraid of who will manage it because the capital does not know democracy, but manages it. And that also proved by this published contract that capital above democracy, above the law passed by this House, is at least what the Jutarnji List says. And you know how we have Grandma Mara's diet, it's true, it was in the paper. Well, that's all we're asking for the Prime Minister to come over, explain whether it's true or not, what are you afraid of? If what Jutarnji List wrote through this article is true, then I fear for the future of all Croatia, Slavonia and our agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47859	Thank you, too. Mr. Gordan Maras asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47861	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a 10-minute break for new information regarding Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47862	Thank you very much. No one else. Thank you very much. At 6:00, we move on. It's 17.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47863	We continue with the work, first up is colleague Gordan Maras, Club of Representatives of the SDP. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 1800 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47864	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. Here I am obliged here to inform the public that we have a situation which is unseen in Croatia, which is that most parliaments, meaning HDZ and HNS mock the entire public and interest in Agrokor. We have just finished the first session of preparation if you want where we discussed the Research Commission a little more and where I must say that I am consterned with the approach that was applied I said both HDZ and HNS as a majority, i.e. they showed the figure to the entire Croatian public who today is justified with great interest following the events around Agrokor. So to recap, HDZ refused to testify to Ante Ramljak but therefore they are very interested in what they have to say about Agrokor Stipe Mesic and Joža Manolić. If it weren't true it would be funny and it's tragic and it just shows that we have to insist on, that we simply mustn't give up because it's obvious that HDZ and HNS are not responsible for telling their own what he has to say, the one who has the most information, who at this point should be giving answers to everyone in the Republic of Croatia what happened about the borrowing agreement, about the meetings with Knighthead and before he became Commissioner. But HDZ says no, we are not interested, we are interested in what they have to say, Stjepan Mesic and Josip Manulic. That's what HDZ's interested in. As a matter of fact, HDZ is acting in a way that told the Government of Seks in an interview that before Plenkovic for HDZ it doesn't matter what it was, if it's necessary to get anyone out of HDZ but now they're going from a safe distance, they've been back 27 years. So Croatian citizens, Mr Plenkovic and the HDZ gentlemen around Agrokor are now more interested in what he has to say to Ante Ramljak than he has to say to Josip Manolic. And on the other hand, the question arises how to continue working at all if HDZ obstructs the work of the commission, if it de facto seems to wait for that moment when it will be able to say that the conditions have been met for the commission to stop working and thus delay the testimony of key witnesses. They de facto do not want all those people who at this time decide on hundreds and billions of kuna in the name of Croatian taxpayers in Agrokor to testify at the Committee's meeting. And this can be a legitimate goal for them to hide their activities in Agrokor but Croatian citizens must not agree to it. Croatian citizens must not agree that HDZ makes fools of them and of all of us here in the Croatian Parliament. I can accept that some advocates who support such a policy and are not HDZ accept it but the rest of us should not accept it. And the most pressing parliamentary pressure needs to be strengthened because this, ladies and gentlemen, really doesn't make any sense already. They stall, they don't want the truth, they basically drag the entire Croatian public. Once again, information about Agrokor that should be important to people, which should be more relevant to HDZ, can be given by Josip Manolić and Stjepan Mesic instead of Ante Ramljak and Martina Dalic and Zdravko Maric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47865	I'm sorry, Sabine the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47866	Thank you, Mr. President, please take 10 minutes off, the last break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to discuss the potentially harmful effects of the laws adopted in this Croatian Parliament, which have been derivated by some other documents and could significantly reflect on the Croatian economy and on the Croatian budget and the fate of Croatian people in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47867	All right, all right. Is anyone else picking up? A fellow Boric?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47868	On the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47869	A fellow Bull?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47870	Also the situation in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47871	All right, we got it. ... No, no, break 10 minutes to 18.38 hours at 18.28 hours. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Stanka's done. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.50 HOURS]] On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Gordan Maras first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47873	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We called for this break to provide you with some new information related to Agrokor and the procedures and activities of SDP and SDP Representatives' Club in the coming period. The position of HDZ, you all know, I said that in the previous stop, they do idiots from Croatian citizens. They all said that instead of Ante Ramljak they called as witnesses at the Committee on Agror Stipe Mesic and Jož Manolic. They don't want any truth to know what's going on in Agrokor right now. Prime Minister Plenkovic ignored the Croatian Parliament and today did not come to the meeting of the Croatian Parliament to explain what its role is and what Ante Ramljak's role is in Agrokor. Therefore, given that the HDZ lost control of its actions, that it lost control of Agrokora, that it had handed part of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia to foreign funds, that it had lost control of this and of the Croatian economy, the SDP was initiating the process of recalling Andrej Plenkovic and the HDZ government. We ask for the support of all clubs in the Croatian Parliament who care about the Republic of Croatia and the transparent management of Croatia, and this will be our next step. Today, this debate, regardless of the nervous representatives of HDZ, are shouting from their benches. Today this debate ends, this is the last break of the SDP Representative Club for today in the Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder President: Please colleagues calm down.]] The decision was made by the SDP, we are going to call off the government that does not protect national interests, which does not protect the interests of the Croatian economy, which leaves sovereignty over Croatian companies to foreign funds and we continue the debate with this impeachment in the Croatian Parliament. Once again, I call on all representatives of the Croatian Parliament to give us support, and what is more important I call on Croatian citizens to stand behind us and stop what HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47874	The second debate was held by respected counterpart Josip Boris, the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47875	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Here we heard a little more intense debate from fellow Maras. He's probably still nervous about the commission, but it's understandable all day long it's hard to be new again, say something smart again. We're mostly repeating the same things, and now we've heard this news of the interpellation party moving again in the impeachment of now not the ministers but the prime minister himself. Here's just a missing colleague Maras here with that little paper he had 77 on as the number he had, but unfortunately, and then it'll show up in the future that it won't be easy for him to do it. Despite all the charges, the commission has shown that it is working and that it has continued to work. We've made the necessary decisions and we can start working. We also called a new session after the third. We determined everything we had to determine so that everything that was pronounced here as untrue was denied by the very work of the commission. And what's the problem? The problem is what a colleague from the SDP himself said on the commission himself, that it is not a good impression because he wants to be there and make impressions and that he needs to be cameramen to say something, to question and to give the public the impression that he knows something. But at one point when we got to him, he was very nervous. But it doesn't have much to do with this break either. I just want to say some things that happened this afternoon, gentlemen. Providers who employ 30 and some thousand people have stopped with Lex Agrokor as a law that allowed them to work, so that they can work, that they can pay their commitments, that they can pay their salaries and that they can continue the job that was threatened by the end of the third month, at the beginning of the fourth when the government showed its competence to manage the biggest crisis, the economic crisis in the history of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, we still have a SDP that wants Agrokor in bankruptcy, which wants a political point in making 37,000 people in Croatia and another 20,000 in other countries end up on the street, at the employment bureau, and then SDP says conjoinedly whether we told you. But there are always those responsible and irresponsible. HDZ is a responsible party, it shows always in history today when it is difficult to make the hardest decisions. And it's obvious that colleagues are hit again with what I said and they already don't like it, but it doesn't matter. We're moving on, gentlemen. We've said a lot of stuff, because it's obvious that there's no peace within the SDP club itself. I read here on the page of a portal that Mr Bernardic found a way to deal with his inexperiences through the statutes. Not everyone thinks of the SDP as a colleague, Maras. Not everyone in the SDP wants citizens, i.e. Agrokor employees end up on the street. So it will be a difficult battle, it is not a problem to use all parliamentary and available means to make the debate difficult, to try to score but according to the laws, in accordance with the decisions, according to what the Croatian Parliament has always been. The highest home of the Croatian people. And we won't agree to the opposition dictate our agenda, dictate the decisions we have to make, let them dictate everything they ran for when they were in power. Milanovic never came to the Croatian Parliament, however many times we called him and when it was the hardest and when they brought in the famous Lex Perkovic, he did not want to come. Never. But now they take the right to invite every few prime ministers, to come to them, even though the man has been to the Croatian Parliament more than any prime minister so far and not run from it. And he's offering his own points. The most important thing for us is that in the end I will say that suppliers and employees have stopped with an extraordinary commissioner and Lex Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47876	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47877	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, Boric, personally offended me as an advocate, and I believe that this hurt Article 238, saying that SDP representatives want Agrokor in bankruptcy. No, not at all, I personally feel offended by such a statement, I do not want Mr. Boric, Agrokor in bankruptcy but also do not want a review of the conversion and privatisation where Croatian citizens will pay debts to your HDZ comrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47878	And you think the Rules of Procedure got hurt? ... I don't think he's hurt, and what you found offended, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear it.]] Here you go, colleague Maras, and you've picked up the plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47879	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Article 238, which speaks of the demeaning and insulting of other MPs, has been injured. Mr. Boric said that as an agent, I want bankruptcy and that 40,000 people are out of a job. Which is not true and what is an insult. On the other hand, Mr. Boris wants and obviously acts like HDZ can do anything and the HDZ can do whatever it wants regardless of what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia want. And on that side, I ask you to give Mr. Boric a warning because he must not insult and demonstrate the will of the HDZ which is clearly at work today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47880	I estimate there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here comes a respected colleague, Boric, also for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47881	I mean, article 23 was injured because a colleague of Maras and a colleague of mine were offended by an ordinary argument. And to the fact that they suggested that we solve all this that's happening around Agrokor through bankruptcy law, that means bankruptcy. That means on the street, gentlemen. And of course, when it's not how they want it, when there's a competence that can be managed by this crisis So they tried the part where they insulted the MPs, actually now insult me and say it's not true what I said. [[President: And what was injured in the Rules of Procedure?]] That's right. [[President: So you also think that you are offended?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47882	I also don't think you're offended and there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so let's get on with the work. Now what? This is now a non-necessary debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47883	Don't be angry, Mr. President, but I have to react, because Article 238 does not regulate an attempt to insult what Mr. Boric said. So they tried to insult me. So in 238, there's no attempt to offend, so Mr. Boric's denying himself, but we're used to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47884	You all speak very wisely, but there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. So let's go to the club of the representatives of the Independent Lists and the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47885	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's just to let the public know that there was an article of the committee before me with the breaks, to say that everything was going on, it's not exactly what my colleague Boris said that they were very constructive at this meeting that preceded these breaks. It happened that the opposition was too loud at all points. First, they voted on not allowing the public and the media to participate in our meeting, we were in opposition to the media and the public being present, then on the proposal of Col. Jelkovic was voted on by the Rules of Procedure under which the Commission can work only if the majority of MPs are present, which is practically open to the intention to obstruct the work of the Assembly's Investigative Commission, and after that, neither the witnesses have compromise nor agreement, but we have, although I have advised ourselves not to go in this direction, because the documentation we requested is very likely to get much more difficult, to go with Commissioner Ramljak, who practically changes the Ivica Todorovic to answer all the questions that MPs and the public ask us here in the Croatian Assembly, which was also the proposal from our first meeting that he would vote against the opposition's proposal today to come and answer this number of questions. So we have witnesses, first it was a proposal, they didn't even know who they were proposing, so they were looking for those people, they were looking for names that were quite tragic, but it doesn't matter, we leave it to HDZ on the soul. As for this SDP proposal on the government's impeachment, this is a situation that is very serious and requires me to say, radical moves but I don't think there's going to be any big success here, it's shown today by the vote of my colleagues from the HNS. However, it a little encourages today's debate by SDSS representative Milorad Pupovac, who has raised many questions regarding this roll-up loan that was not foreseen by Lex Agrokor. So when we're talking about roll-up credit and this deal that came out, that doesn't necessarily mean that we're having problems with Lex Agrokor, which at that point was no smarter solution, it might be, if Zdravko Maric had said before in the government what happens when he was asked questions. And of course, if none of the MPs here, I think it's very ugly to say, it's not for Agrokor to go bankrupt, that people lose their jobs. We're all here for Agrokor to survive in one part as long as possible and to keep as many people as possible their jobs. After all, we showed it when we voted to a good extent for Lex Agrokor. But if in this process, especially after that process, if certain people, certain stakeholders used this process for some personal benefit, if Commissioner Ramljak was without the knowledge of anyone in the Croatian government, without the knowledge of us representatives with that fund, in order for his position to depend on the fund today, you must admit that this is very difficult. And that no one when it was debated about lex Agrokor talked about this so-called so-called lex Agror. Roll up the loan. No one in the debate has ever mentioned it. So these questions need to be answered. What I want to tell you, I thought today, when you voted on this proposal from my colleague Jelkovac, I came out of the meeting, gave up everything, but that's exactly what you're up to. The public pressure on you is getting bigger and bigger, from hour to hour, it shows the example of the President of the Republic, who is hunting for a new mandate, who realizes what citizens want, the citizens want the full truth about Agrokor and I think, no matter what you start from the beginning, what you've practically overturned your rules of procedure and everything else, that you won't be able to hide, hide the full truth about Agror, your colleague, don't be nervous, there's no reason. Listen to my argument, I listened calmly to my colleague Boric. So we will, with the presence of the media and the public, fight for this full truth to come out, and I have already announced to you some documentation for 3.11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u47886	Thank you. Good morning, respected parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. Just one piece of information before we move on to today's agenda. I just want to inform you that today we will discuss with the planned points the point of the report of the Mandatory Immunity Commission. It'll be at the end, because we have some requests to remove immunity, so we'll do it at the end of the day. Today is the first item, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, P.Z. No. 208. But before moving on to that point, a few colleagues called for a break or a replica, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54759	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs. We present to you the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations. We propose to delete the provisions of Articles 881 to 903 which are transposed into Croatian legislation by the old package travel directive, the Council Directive of 13 June 1990 on travel, holidays and circular travel to package arrangements, Directive 90/314. Namely, that directive has been put out of force by the new package travel directive and related travel arrangements. EU Directive 2015/2302, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on travel in packages of arrangements and related travel arrangements amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 and Directive 2011/83 of the EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council repealing Council Directive 1990. The new package travel directive contains interrelated rules of private and public law and, for example, requests from Member States to prescribe effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions for infringements of national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive. Since the whole matter covered by the Package Travel Directive will be covered by new Tourism Services Acts. This proposal of the Law on Mandatory Relations deletes provisions transposing the earlier Directive on travel in package arrangements, hence the 1990 Directive. With this amendment, we propose to amend Article 999 of the Law on Mandatory Relations in order to free banks or savings banks from the use of seals in the introduction of payment and payment of money in savings books and, in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the reform measure of abolishing the use of the stamp of 4 pigs in 2016. Furthermore, these amendments and, on the proposal of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities, the termology of the Law is aligned with the terminology of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and mental illness and lagging mental development are replaced by the expressions of mental or intellectual damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54760	So we keep working. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? We have two committees, a Legislative Committee and a Justice Committee. If not, then I open the debate, first came the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Honorable counterpart Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54761	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with co-workers. We are actually facing a very pointary amendment to the law on mandatory relations that we all know as very extensive, very detailed. And what I can stress is that here's an initiative that I've stood up for, which so far little has actually caught the ground even though there's a clear conclusion of the government, which is the removal of the seal, and here you've spent it with you, actually it's an administrative discharge as much as anyone might thinks is not as financially strong as such financially strong. But it certainly isn't enough in that part alone. I congratulate you on your efforts, but certainly here I would encourage all other institutions and resolution ministries to propose changes and finally remove the use of the seal as a binding element and thus allow in fact that our primarily entrepreneurs, economic operators have one obligation less. And when you have fewer obligations, then it's always more financially simple. We see here in your proposal you are primarily based on the transposition of directives that are being incorporated as such. I can't say that we have any objections, but when we get back to the light of the events that we had since last night, we actually see that this Law on Mandatory Relations as such is threatened. In fact, the entire Croatian right to apply has been compromised, because in addition to the transposition of the directive, we have seen that we have a transfer of the contract. We put the contract above Croatian law. By the provisions of the contracts signed for lending in Agrokor, we have, in fact, derrogated the Law on Mandatory Relations by applying Anglo-Saxon law. I would like to warn these esteemed MPs and MPs about the articles that apply, those are Articles 270, 271 and 274 and I would like to warn you of the importance, and to you State Secretary of State that this amendment is, in fact, how much it affects the law that you will defend in future time. Article 270 defines integrity as a result of the act and defined that when the act is impossible, or an unauthorised contract is invalid. I would now, all together and ask the Croatian public if the shift of the Governor of Ramljak as such has suddenly become harmful. Who has that right? Whether the Croatian government has the right to make a proposal, the Commercial Court has confirmed the proposal or has the right to contract which is suppressed on the loan. We are actually going back to where we put the financial institution, and in this case I would say a malversion fund above Croatian legislation. And Article 271 makes it clear that the act is illegal if it is opposed not only... by the Constitution by the coercion, but also by the morale of society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Definitely that we have lost the morale of society because our transparency has bowed to our interests. She bowed down to the interests of funds that never in her history as such called them scavenger or otherwise did not function at the level of one normal income but was always income above all regular procedures. Therefore, one who invests in such a fund certainly expects that there is also an appropriate high return on the funds invested. And that's why when we talk about the harmfulness, the harmfulness that actually derogates and these articles that I've mentioned, what do we find it in? We are just about to apply the Anglo-Saxon right that is ahead of the continental law, which is ahead of the Croatian right based on continental law. Because our legislation would not allow one provision that can be considered and we consider illegal to be above the law. And then the question arises exactly what is defined in Article 274. The Law on Mandatory Relations, which is whether a legal person such as the Agrokora system can enter into legal contracts within its legal capacity? You'll say yes, she's legally capable. He's got his own administration. I'll tell you what kind of administration? It is the administration that has been forced to appoint it, the Croatian state has forced it and said it is being supervised by the court. Was the court manifested? The contract was signed by Mr Ramljak and is compatible and lex Agrokor and consistent with the positive Croatian regulations. Who will this court call to account? Who's he gonna call for damage? And what you'd set up, and you're changing it in this law. Whether invited persons will be called precisely to Article 1050, because I fear that if we do not defend the laws, Croatian legislation and this Law on Mandatory Relations that we will all go exactly in that provision that you are talking about in one package of arrangements from Croatia. And let us not let the Croatian Government, nor the Croatian Parliament, remain passive in this case because we are now fighting fundamental things so that in future time we do not have a whole series of contracts that will change not only Croatian legislation but all of us and as representatives. I would once again warn that the Law on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in Article 14 says the court has control. Will the court assess how much the contract is above the Mandatory Relations Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54762	Thank you, too. We only have replicas, so we'll do it when the replicas are done. The first one's a colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54763	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Panenić, you have opened a series of important questions and it seems difficult to give a single answer now and what we are all interested in especially the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as it is possible that although the Parliament has passed a law popularly called lex Agrokor here, even though under that law the Government of the Republic of Croatia has appointed an extraordinary administration in the company, how it is possible that the Commissioner will sign a contract that is not only placed outside the law but puts it above the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because the contract says that if it is removed, that he will then come for credit to be charged in full. At least how we could see it from the media. The key question is whether the prime minister knew about the conclusion of the contract, if he knew why he had allowed it, if he did not know it had to take action, and this is what was said here today, that the extraordinary commissioner was either removed or set off in the direction of investigating whether the contract was actually signed in accordance with Croatian laws. The situation is certainly not simple, and what could ultimately be a consequence of all this is that Croatian citizens pay for such an irresponsible procedure by an extraordinary commissioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54764	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54765	Thank you. Dear Representative Zhagar, you've raised one crucial question, what would happen in the event that the reprogrammes, in fact the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by the Minister of Finance, are declared invaluable? So, which, should we, as the Republic of Croatia, suddenly maybe pay, should any credit institution be called to that, no more man we talked to, no more person standing. Have we become one person, is the system of Agrocora one person? Or it's actually a company of capital where half our economy works at a higher or lower level. In fact, we put it in this whole case, we, in fact, should have kind of returned this debate to the Law on Mandatory Relations, but here is Mr. Salapic, who is actually going to have a very unpleasant role today and in this debate. So he went through the law changes we see you can change with one contract. And he needs to defend something that is good, some directive that he will implement, and in fact we will be talking here about much deeper problems facing the Law on Mandatory Relations, and then the question is whether this is the Minister who proposes these amendments, what if the Minister is replaced, if these changes are no longer valid, as long as we come if one contract is signed, suddenly ceases to apply, and then all the damages are done by those who are not signatories in fact. There is a question to be asked, in fact, what is the role of one manager in the Agrokora system right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54766	Thank you. Second in line, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54767	Thank you very much. A colleague of Panenic, you said this was mainly about the EU directive, meaning the Law on Mandatory Relations, however, you said one very important thing that has now been updated, which means that according to this proposal, the transfer of the contract is above Croatian law. It means that contractual obligations in the case of the Law on the Temporary Administration of Systemic Important Companies in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Lex Agrokor, in essence, lost any appointment powers in the public contract, the replacement of the interim manager in Agrokor, and the parliament no longer has any influence. The proposal itself has confirmed that the situation is so serious that the vulture funds that have emerged, and if he has signed those contracts, is it accurate that the government has lost its authority over this... I gave, so-called. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] Lex Agrokor. And whether the Croatian economy is threatened and left to others to guide it and that this law is essentially suspended, that simply so in the Anglo-Saxon right that these laws are contracts above the law of the Republic of Croatia. Here's a quick and clear question if you can answer me. Thank you very much and for your public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54768	Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54769	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, that's why I've listed the articles of the law that speak of the integrity of some act. So they've put creditors over the government and they're actually canceling the Prime Minister's decision. If Prime Minister Plenkovic says no to me, it's over, we're going to move the man, what's going to happen? They'll say no, no, no, it won't happen, we'll figure out how it's going to be, and you'll pay as you try. So you're going to pay for everything we owe you, $1.06 billion. That's actually what needs to be read, and why did they just call for Anglo-Saxon law? Because we cannot appeal to Croatian law because the two sides said so, we are exempt from national law. I ask you why they didn't accept, okay, the Croatian judiciary is ineffective so they don't trust our judiciary, why don't they tell the German judiciary or someone else who's effective, who is quick and let's go there to have a court, because the same continental right on which Croatian legislation is based and the same ropes would be discussed, there would be no discussion of any act that is an integral part of one contract. So, you're right, we've lost some sovereignty through an ordinary contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54770	And the third replica, dear colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54771	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenic, today we have heard certain things that are repeated here again, and we do not want to hear the truth. But as a reminder, just remember the situation about Agrokor before Easter. Belje had no material, or raw materials for its farms, the situation in Ledo was not great at all, the whole of Konzum has its own cash registers operated softwarely from the Federal Republic of Germany. So the threat was just pressing the button to make it all fall and actually collapse the entire system. By bringing this Lex Agrokor, in fact, what the government has succeeded in is that it created a legal framework in which the operations of Agrokor were saved from bankruptcy. You're wondering if Special Commissioner Ante Ramljak can be replaced or not? You got it. Article 15 of this Act on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia states only in one sentence. The Court may recall an extraordinary commissioner and appoint a new one at any time on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in relation to the extraordinary administration, is established by law and no contract, and the one you're talking about cannot diminish them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54772	Thank you. We're moving on to the debate now. Next is SDP's Club of Representatives and Honored counterpart Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54774	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Associates. Here's a little bit to change, I'm not talking about Agrokor and this is all about what's going on, but about what's going on and what's going on and what's going on and what's going on and what's going on and what's going on and what's going on? So, on the one hand, we have the law and I would say one of the few laws in Croatia that has stabilised and which, in fact, through its application and through the practice of the courts, is causing relatively little problems and, accordingly, has suffered relatively little changes since its adoption. And unfortunately, he's one of the few laws, but here's at least one of them. This change that is before us today, I will certainly and we will certainly support it as a club because it is not only a harmonisation with the directive but it is a precision of certain things that should have been specified, which in one activity will actually raise legal protection of citizens and consumers, on the other hand, to regulate relations in an appropriate way. However, I will point to three things that we may be and which I would recommend to the Proposer to consider through the amendments, either this one, or that would advance the law, in my view, the Law on Mandatory Relations. First, we have a question of tight interest. We also intervened in this law because, as Government, we saw that Croatia has the largest legal tightening interest in Europe. After the intervention, however, they fell to the European average, but what remains remained a certain discrepancy of the law, the interest law. Because we have the interest law that actually lost a good part of its meaning and the rest is, actually, I mean 4, but maybe I'm wrong about the rates. It's something that we couldn't solve in applying to citizens, and especially in the economy, it's causing a problem, and I think it's a subject, and then we couldn't solve it, because we had to intervene this way simply to solve it as soon as possible, but it's something that's matured to solve it in a systematic way and to settle the issue of tight interest. Whether to edit at the zoo, then completely abandon the interest law or exclude the provisions from here, means to remove and place it there, it is certainly up to the Proposer, it can be one and the other solution. But I think it would be good to take advantage of this opportunity when we change the law to commit ourselves to this and end this one question because it's what citizens feel. There's a tight interest coming, she's paying, she's high. I'm saying, we cut it down, she's no longer crossing the capital by not knowing about 5 years like before, 5 or 6, now it takes more, 7, 8 years, so we've cut her down but it's still a problem that needs to be solved. Here's what my proposal would be, so either through this law or through this other one. The other thing, we later have the agenda and the Law on Changes to the Law on Land Books, so that's one question I'd like to open up here, and it's about the purchase of real estate. Whatever we do, as long as we have an unsettled real estate purchase system, we won't have a regulated legal system and we won't have arranged land books. I think it's time and this isn't an ex-post mind because we, and then, if you remember, I was in the debate and then I was saying, we didn't do it, but let's do it now, apply a different model to the purchase of real estate. So what am I saying about that? You now have a system of purchases, purchases where people very often go to the National Journal, buy a contract form for what, 0,40 kuna or kuna, fill it out themselves, verify signatures and it's about millions of real estate, very often, real estate is expensive, come to the execution of the contract, and then they can't do anything because either the real estate is misdescripted or something wrong in the contract etc.. And from that comes the court dispute or she's already sold to someone. How many of our fellow citizens have come into the situation that they have not signed up immediately and have been sold to someone in the meantime, so they cannot register or have someone else sign up for a mortgage, etc. And people actually get into a situation where very often they buy the real estate they've paid for, maybe for which they've saved their whole lives. I think our task of the Croatian Parliament is to arrange this legal traffic in a way that is strictly formalised. On the one hand, I think, and it says in the Constitution and everywhere, ownership is binding. So to prescribe mandatory bookkeeping and automatic bookkeeping. I wouldn't, and I don't see why anyone who bought the apartment would wait with a book. Yes, we will if we want to have an orderly state and that many countries have been going to an automatic book, because taxes are paid only by you leaving citizens to submit or not to the book. Someone forgets, someone doesn't even know they have to do it, and you happen to have that apartment resell or real estate and people have a problem. So that's one point where we, on the one hand, would formalize the whole process and raise its quality. What would you avoid with that, too? They'd avoid the foundry, the green contracts. They're the ones who seem to get people to give up a mortgage, so it's like they're not going to register, so this guy books it for him, etc. Then it's gone. So then you have an automated procedure in which one contract goes to the garnery, one goes to the IRS, as it goes now. The other thing is, we have on the one hand the question of the content of those contracts, on the other hand the issue of form. It's also a solution that I would and I will immediately warn, seemingly collect, because, you wouldn't be able to buy the form by so much,... 40, 50 kuna and make purchases of real estate, but I think you should also make a commitment to any lawyer, any public notary, however it is set up, but that someone guarantees the content of the contract and the form of the contract because then you have a complete contract done which when it is made and when it is sent to the garnery, it cannot be implemented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you've arranged a whole series of legal relations through it, so you do, and if there's something wrong with the contract, then you guarantee the one whose seal is on it. And you got the situation so that when citizens enter the shopping process, they're completely protected. It can't happen that this property can't be spent, it can't be recorded, because it suits him. I say no matter how the system is arranged but the system that would be arranged where, I warn, it's a collection for the citizens, there should be thought then and the tariff, etc., it arranged to be as small as possible, but it guarantees absolute legal certainty. And I think that as a country and when you do, and when we talk about your next Law on Land Book Planning, if we don't take this step, it won't come to that -- I'm not going to say at all how much this would affect the number of disputes because a whole series of disputes arises because, yes, someone sold something twice. Someone sold something at the mortgage, it wouldn't have happened. So, all of them, because people need to know, invest, take credit, sort of fool themselves, but then you have to be legally insured. So it's something that I think we're mature for, if we had to think about it, it's not easy to develop a model, but there's a lot of countries where we'd mean, we solve everything with automation, we'd go to the book and we'd raise an important level of regulation and legal certainty and protect the citizens. Of course, once again, the government must find a solution not to be too expensive. Which won't be easy. For example, in my day it tortured us, and that's why one of the reasons why we didn't go into this is because people are going to object to you, so far I've been doing something for 50 kuna, now you're asking me how many. But you're giving him legal certainty. It goes digitization, goes automatic enrolment, etc. So I ask that you think about it and that when you come to the House, we will discuss it but to support it. The third thing that is well solved in law but in practice a whole series of problems arises, these are life support contracts. Especially life support contracts. The fact is that a whole series of our fellow citizens who are in a difficult situation and these people usually get into these contracts or they're old, they're powerless, they don't have some kind of family support, sometimes they're not educated, they come into a situation to be damaged. And we as a Parliament, you as a government, must do everything we can to protect these people. And now, according to what we all know and almost there aren't any of us who don't have a case about it, these people aren't protected. So that's what I'm going to put just a few points in which direction we should go but it's the subject of the zoo and he's looking for a solution because these cases are here before us. These people, when they find themselves in it, often do not welcome the outcome of a dispute, and too many of them who have real estate die in misery because someone cheated on them. And that's bad. So it's one thing to introduce stricter rules for the verification, to solemnize that contract. The fact that it's not right now. Because it turns out that people often get into it without it being a real sign of their will. That's one thing. Secondly, for me and whoever is angry or not angry, a circle of people who can enter those contracts should be considered. I'm not sure if the people who care about these people are either the owners of some social institutions, so worry, etc., whether they should be allowed into this. Whether or not smiles should also be allowed to employees of welfare centres that are people, means that they are able to get into it but should be put under special control in these cases. So these are some things that citizens expect from our citizens and that can be relatively easy to get rid of now. They do not require funds, time can be done quickly, and we will help many citizens who are in a lot of trouble. One more thing, the disputes that run around this, I don't think they're in a hurry, should be hasty. You have someone who's very many years old, who's agreed to get restraints, doesn't get it, and he's out of property, that person can't wait 10 years or 5 years for a solution to his dispute. And unfortunately, that's how long it takes. And that's where we're going to be and symbolic if we make that step, maybe it doesn't help a lot of people but help those people who need it. So what I've put forward are proposals for interventions into a law that is generally good, the changes you're going to be supporting, of course, but these are proposals that we, as a Parliament, as a government, need to take care of together, and if we step up at least in something about this, the citizens will be better off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54775	Thank you. It's three replicas. The first is a distinguished colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54776	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milenić, of course, all the measures you have now proposed to advance this legislative proposal, I personally support, and I would like you to support this proposal now and the secretary of state will hear it. In fact, we as a society have been set up in our strategies towards e-socials, so we have a system of e-citizens, we have a Central State Office for Digital Society, we have an e-signature law, and in that sense it would be good, and maybe that would improve the supply of banks. It would be good for Article 998 to be added in paragraph 1 to say issues... A savings book or electronic savings book and in Article 999 to be entered into the book means the seal is moved, it is okay to sign the bank and by electronic means. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That there's this possibility that there's this kind of electronic savings book. Given that interest on savings is decreasing, given that there is a tax, banks may be offering citizens a new product that would be linked to an electronic savings book especially for those citizens who do not have a permanent income, who cannot take out a current account and thus may enable them to have a credit card and can then act better in that account. I don't think that, in order for this law to be a problem, we'll see, the secretary of state can be shown about it, there'll be another reading, if it doesn't work out, I'll put in an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54777	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54778	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, absolutely, that's something, what you mentioned, so all the people who are on Internet banking today can, if they have to transfer very large amounts of money precisely electronically. I don't see any reason to keep papers when we all know that electronics are better recorded and simpler, and that's where I totally agree with you. The whole system wherever it is, it's the intensity of many laws, but the zoo needs to give it support wherever it can move to electronic processing and data storage. When you do that, I was just talking about land books, you came into a situation that you actually have no paper in the whole process. A lot has been done at the Ministry of Justice on this, and it's good, these changes that go on but that should continue. So you, we need to get to the point that you from home to one place will actually be able to solve most of the things. Here's what I absolutely support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54779	Second replica, dear fellow Falcon, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54780	Thank you, Mr. President. So this is certainly an interesting idea, what about the purchase of real estate, and we can agree that in our system there is a problem with the lack of knowledge of people and legal entities in their rights. So we had there I think in the late '90s, so when the guarantees were very popular, people didn't know what that meant. Then the whole story about the Swiss loan, the variable interest, and now this. However, is it necessary to change the whole system because of this? We already have in the system something called a note, meaning it exists as something that provides protection to whoever made the purchase contract before he paid the full price and got a tabular statement that he could protect. We can, I know it's a practice already today that public notebooks, on the occasion of a signature certificate, warn citizens of the possibility of a note. You can fill out a form, very briefly, within 2 minutes to which you can immediately submit a request for a note there. So, what I'm saying is, I think that the existing system provides opportunities to protect itself, but we need to work on general education, and I'm not going to tell education, but to inform and inform people about what their rights are and what opportunities are. I would also point out, the other problem is that with a tabular statement. So if, at what point would that contract go to the garland. So not only when it's concluded but only when a tabular is issued, so it would have to go back to the public notebook and then we'd have to send each other. So that makes the whole thing complicated again. And the third thing I would mention, one problem that exists, which is not related to this, and that's the question when some company that took the mortgage, the investor who took the mortgage, that company goes into trouble, and then those mortgages stay, citizens have to pay for it. We've had cases like this before. That's maybe one bigger problem that you wouldn't solve with this, at least as far as I can tell. So I think that, in any case, we should first work on informing citizens about what opportunities the existing system gives before we enter a major reform, in fact, all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54781	Thank you very much. The answer of the honourable MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54782	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, yes, you're partly right, but I'm not sure that until we introduce a mandatory ownership registration system within a certain time limit that we will move forward. You mentioned this case yourself about the mortgage, it cannot be solved in the current system. And you now have people who, you know, when you're taking credit, living, you've burdened yourself for 10, 20, 30 years, and maybe you got into it on the basis of something that's not there, where someone else signed up in the meantime. Good for a mortgage loan is specific because the bank always checks out, that's fine with me. But maybe you had your savings, so there's no element. So, what I'm saying is, we need to build a system that will lead the whole process. It's electronic today. But why don't you dress him up? So if I or you bought real estate from me, so let's go, then I need to know that I have someone's seal and that my contract is enforceable and that the form of the contract is such that it's going to be enforceable. And send her, whoever she is, a public notebook to the garter and I'm done. But you will then, there will never be another dispute over that apartment because it is resolved. And we with this not only removed from the jurisdiction of the entire series of disputes, we protected the citizens. I'm warning it would pick up the process, so that's what we as a Parliament need to talk about, but it would completely protect the citizens. You couldn't have any more of those cashiers that you're supposed to get, give me an apartment, here's 10 grand, and I'll book it or I won't. That wouldn't be possible either. So you're giving one important legal certainty to the citizens. It's a big step, but let's talk about it, that's why we're here in the Parliament, we can have a debate, it could be another model. But I'm saying, let's take a chance when we change things open a question and try to find a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54783	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54784	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Orsat, you mentioned in your speech the problem with contracts, or the safety of a life-long, death-restraint contract. Those of us who had the chance to listen to the attorney general last night, or the attorney general, that was one of her warnings yesterday. So she gave us information as the elderly are growing in Croatia, that the life of the younger ones who once cared for these older ones, or parents, is such that they simply don't have time or financial opportunities comes to the conclusion of various contracts on this available life support, which, unfortunately, according to the attorney general, end up in very difficult and ugly forms for the person who signed this contract with some service provider. What she warned about was that when it comes to the conclusion of a law, when such a single contract is concluded, it should strengthen security for old and powerless persons. And under 2nd, it should be in the courts, so when there's a complaint in court, that it should have priority, because of course what's going on. It happens, therefore, that although this older and powerless person complains, he usually does not welcome the verdict and dies in very inhumane conditions of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54785	Thank you very much. The answer of the honourable MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, on the one hand, I wouldn't want my discussion to be understood as an attack on those contracts, because they are important and necessary. And we need to count on it, that most of it, I believe, that most of the people who got into them really got the benefit they wanted. And on the side of those who receive and give, because it is always so. However, what you said, considering, especially when it comes to the death maintenance, where you, in fact, already for life, give up certain assets and you can come to the mercy of the other Contracting Party. You must be particularly protected here, all of you. We speak old and powerless, not just that. Everyone can get in a situation where they need something like that. And the law that has given a good framework, in my opinion, needs to be raised, on the one hand, this part about how this person will inform himself about his rights and how it will be checked whether it is the will of that person, that it does not happen, that someone who has certain diseases etc. brought into a situation to sign it and give up property, which is happening. And on the other hand, if there's a delay in getting rid of it quickly. With that, you need to know that the situation is very often the other way around. That those who spoke, they provide everything they said, and those who should give up property are not satisfied, and that is where the dispute arises. But in any case, these are deep, social disputes, which are very burdensome for us as a society, and they should be resolved by haste procedure. Because, I'm saying, people, they come into life's trouble, they give away property, maybe they could sell out of it and live on it. No, they gave someone to keep them. And now, if there's a dispute on one side or another, let's let him get rid of it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54787	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is. Now we can finally go back to the agenda point again, to remind you that we have dealt with other than the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, so now, on behalf of the HDZ Club, they will talk about it, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So here are the amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations which are proposed to delete the provisions governing travel arrangements, so Articles 881 to 903, which have been transposed into Croatian legislation by the old directive on travel in package arrangements, the 1990s directive. The new directive sets out that directive out of force, hence the package travel directive and related travel arrangements, the 2015 directive, which will be transposed into Croatian legislation by the new Law on the provision of services in tourism. The Secretary of State here explained in detail what the new directive is adopting, and due to the substantive link between the provisions of that directive, it was assessed that from the aspect, nomotechnics, legal certainty, applicability, clarity of the rules the best normative solution to transpose the new directive into Croatian legislation, hence all its provisions in the new Tourism Service Act. Furthermore, this proposal proposes to amend Article 999 in order to free banks, i.e. savings banks, from the use of seals in the introduction of payments and payment of money in savings books and all in accordance with the final government on the measure of abolishing the use of the stamp from 4 May 2016. Finally, rather than less important to these amendments to the law, the law also complies with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and terms of mental illness and lagging mental development are replaced by expressions of mental and intellectual damage. The HDZ Club will support amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54790	Thank you very much. We've got one last-minute replica. What? [[Intruder: No, no, replica can, no no.]] Ah, come on then give me a line, please. [[Intruder: He's reporting for...]] [[Intruder: I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club, and can I get a replica before?]] [[No, he doesn't want a replica.]] Here's my colleague Bulj, you have the opportunity to participate individually in the debate as you have reported but now on amendments to the law on mandatory relations. There you are, an expert, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54792	Mr. Reiner, every parliamentary representative has received the legitimacy to speak and you to assess as chairman of who will speak, I only know that this is an EU directive and that it is in a serious state. And I'm from you, but when you're involved, and no one's dragged you by your tongue, and you, as chairman, can't judge the MPs as you wish. You can request a pay phone and speak on behalf of the club, individually and thus cannot react. And these directives that we are being put into the Law on Mandatory Relations are also visible through the now suspension of the law passed by this Parliament. By humiliating parliamentary representatives, you, Andrej Plenkovic, will not allow this people to do so. This body is to be disbanded, you have commented on Mr. Chairman in one way in your style, of course in a dodgy way, is that you are the chairman then would have called Andrej Plenkovic and would have said parliamentary representatives are asking you Mr. Prime Minister to show yourself about one of the biggest crises and threats where vulture funds, scavengers have the opportunity to take charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well. This is a colonial way of managing, and so I would ask you when you comment, you can give your word, you can subtract, you can remind me, it's your right, but I didn't deserve your comment. Otherwise you who destroyed the Croatian state, you who are raising your hands for Agrokor to grow in this way, you who pushed us into all European associations please call Yes, but you've commented... [[Invader Reiner: colleague Bulj, we are talking about amending the law on mandatory relations.]] that someone is an expert or not an expert. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54793	No. I'm, I'm, I'm just thinking that each of the MPs He has the right to speak, of course, and he's an expert at talking about everything and everything. [[Intruder Bulj: You say that according to the Rules of Procedure everyone...]] So I see no reason why, for your reaction, but I ask you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54794	Let's repeat what you said when you called me to speak. Say the whole sentence again, I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54795	I'm sorry, you can't, you can't delaminate with me, I'm begging you to speak You can't run this session because the MPs the people have chosen are looking for the public to explain, [[Intruding Bulj: And with me in my debate you are polymizing yet stop me time and take my phone and official phone and call Andreja Plenkovići...]] to explain what's going on, right now with the lex. [[Intruder Reiner: Comrade Bulj, you cannot run this session, understand that.]] I'm asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54796	I'm sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54797	You're not sticking to the subject at all, but you're trying to delve into me all the time, which I can't think of.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54798	I would like to ask the esteemed proponent, I will be brief, with the vice president I do not wish to pollemise, of course, but as a representative I have the right to speak about this law, although the chairman, Mr. Honorable Proposer, would forbid me especially in this, probably in the style of Andrej Plenkovic, however, Plenkovic is betrayed, will pass as he is now... It is simply how they behave, and I am amazed at this very law today which is an EU directive, and we see that we are referring to Angolan law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So today, we are in this economic situation contract with the largest economic giant that holds the economic system, mainly food and agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that this law that has been suspended, lex Agrokor, in a way that the contract will be above it, that the scavengers will take over our economy, that we in the Assembly will be very little able to decide or in no way in the grand part of the Republic, that this law is worth exactly as much as this paper. You can break up freely, because in this way, as Andrej Plenkovic behaves, and he has taken up that role and chair and everyone next to him chairing, he does not want to come before parliamentary representatives and answer the public's questions about the cases of new documents that have appeared, lex Agrokor, where Angolan law these contracts with funds, essentially loses any authority or let him not explain if he does not lose. And I think this debate is essentially unnecessary. This debate is unnecessary until we resolve the key moment, because this Parliament will no longer be able to manage it, the whole of Croatia will be taken over by vulture funds and I believe that elections will not be needed in the finality, and the diameter has taken the role of Pharaoh and does not want to enter this House, and because no one can even call him obviously, because someone called him would probably come and come. And that is the obligation and those who chair the session, nor have the courage to call him anything, I want to call him, and we will insist on that, and we believe that this is a very important issue and this new documentation that has appeared in public, we have all seen it, we have seen contracts that mean at the Assembly stretching about Agrokor and the law that we have passed. However, Andrej Plenkovic is not advertised, Andrej Plenkovic is likely to have received information, it should be confirmed by the chairman, as colleagues from most of the majority and I hope and believe that most colleagues expect answers to these questions. This is a very important question. So I doubt my colleague Shucker believes and expects no answers from the diameter of these questions and Mr Ramljak. As a matter of fact, the question is who manages Croatia or Mr. Ramljak or Mr. Plenkovic. So talk about the Mandatory Relations Act, where we suspended our law, where most important to our resources to the largest part of the Republic of Croatia and the economically endangered economic system is where we introduce the Anglo-Saxon Law that will be a contract above our laws, I don't know if it's pointless until we're clear. And that must tell us, Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mr Ramljak, or possibly exclude Minister Maric from saying financially, would have to know either the CNB eventually to come to either HANFA or the Stability Council or otherwise to talk about this law, is pointless until we resolve it. Therefore, Mr. Dear Secretary, do not find yourself offended, but indeed, the current situation in Croatia after these contracts that went public, this law is simply suspended, and is suspended by a man who is obviously acting like Pharaoh Andrej Plenkovic, but must know that this Parliament has chosen him and that he is obliged to speak to the Assembly speaker on these issues, and thus answer the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54799	Thank you very much. You see, fellow Bull, you are probably aware that you have violated Art. 238. And that I should give you a warning. Because you were talking about the subject of not being on the agenda. However, I did not, of course, give you a warning and I do not intend to give you a warning, because in the end, your larger coalition partner has announced that it will obstruct the work of this Parliament just on permanent breaks, which is happening today, and, in fact, by challenging the situation in which we would receive warnings, we will be thrown out and everything. I won't give it up, so I won't do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54800	238. Hurt Businessman because you put me in my mouth and I should talk about what you should talk about, I was talking to the secretary of state, and you were talking to me right at the beginning, in an announcement you said Miro Bulj, you want to professionally explain it. Of course, all of you experts were leading the country in the right direction, never having been to Parliament by Miro Bulj, and a number of other people, but you were speaking in the other direction. You have injured the Rules of Procedure, and you know it very well, and you hold such a session, and as for the reminder, only give to us those who report. [[Intruder Reiner: Of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] It is our duty in the House to answer and speak, to express our views in our own way. And you have no right to us, nor can you, we have received the legality of the people to say what we shall say. I was saying to the secretary exactly what I was supposed to say that today we have a lot more important things, and that today this law, which he's saying... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54801	Thank you very much, your time is up, and you're completely wrong, of course, but, you know, there's no point in talking about it. The individual debate has come to the attention of Honorary Representative Gordan Maras, who is gone, who is losing his word, so I will conclude the debate. We move on to the next point because we have finished the previous point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54803	Proposal for a law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, P.Z. No. 208, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations and Others will be adopted, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 114 for and 1 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, respected parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives. Just one piece of information before we move on to today's agenda. I just want to inform you that today we will discuss with the planned points the point of the report of the Mandatory Immunity Commission. It'll be at the end, because we have some requests to remove immunity, so we'll do it at the end of the day. Today is the first item, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, P.Z. No. 208. But before moving on to that point, a few colleagues called for a break or a replica, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54806	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs. We present to you the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations. We propose to delete the provisions of Articles 881 to 903 which are transposed into Croatian legislation by the old package travel directive, the Council Directive of 13 June 1990 on travel, holidays and circular travel to package arrangements, Directive 90/314. Namely, that directive has been put out of force by the new package travel directive and related travel arrangements. EU Directive 2015/2302, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on travel in packages of arrangements and related travel arrangements amending Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 and Directive 2011/83 of the EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council repealing Council Directive 1990. The new package travel directive contains interrelated rules of private and public law and, for example, requests from Member States to prescribe effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions for infringements of national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive. Since the whole matter covered by the Package Travel Directive will be covered by new Tourism Services Acts. This proposal of the Law on Mandatory Relations deletes provisions transposing the earlier Directive on travel in package arrangements, hence the 1990 Directive. With this amendment, we propose to amend Article 999 of the Law on Mandatory Relations in order to free banks or savings banks from the use of seals in the introduction of payment and payment of money in savings books and, in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the reform measure of abolishing the use of the stamp of 4 pigs in 2016. Furthermore, these amendments and, on the proposal of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities, the termology of the Law is aligned with the terminology of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and mental illness and lagging mental development are replaced by the expressions of mental or intellectual damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54807	So we keep working. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? We have two committees, a Legislative Committee and a Justice Committee. If not, then I open the debate, first came the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Honorable counterpart Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54808	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with co-workers. We are actually facing a very pointary amendment to the law on mandatory relations that we all know as very extensive, very detailed. And what I can stress is that here's an initiative that I've stood up for, which so far little has actually caught the ground even though there's a clear conclusion of the government, which is the removal of the seal, and here you've spent it with you, actually it's an administrative discharge as much as anyone might thinks is not as financially strong as such financially strong. But it certainly isn't enough in that part alone. I congratulate you on your efforts, but certainly here I would encourage all other institutions and resolution ministries to propose changes and finally remove the use of the seal as a binding element and thus allow in fact that our primarily entrepreneurs, economic operators have one obligation less. And when you have fewer obligations, then it's always more financially simple. We see here in your proposal you are primarily based on the transposition of directives that are being incorporated as such. I can't say that we have any objections, but when we get back to the light of the events that we had since last night, we actually see that this Law on Mandatory Relations as such is threatened. In fact, the entire Croatian right to apply has been compromised, because in addition to the transposition of the directive, we have seen that we have a transfer of the contract. We put the contract above Croatian law. By the provisions of the contracts signed for lending in Agrokor, we have, in fact, derrogated the Law on Mandatory Relations by applying Anglo-Saxon law. I would like to warn these esteemed MPs and MPs about the articles that apply, those are Articles 270, 271 and 274 and I would like to warn you of the importance, and to you State Secretary of State that this amendment is, in fact, how much it affects the law that you will defend in future time. Article 270 defines integrity as a result of the act and defined that when the act is impossible, or an unauthorised contract is invalid. I would now, all together and ask the Croatian public if the shift of the Governor of Ramljak as such has suddenly become harmful. Who has that right? Whether the Croatian government has the right to make a proposal, the Commercial Court has confirmed the proposal or has the right to contract which is suppressed on the loan. We are actually going back to where we put the financial institution, and in this case I would say a malversion fund above Croatian legislation. And Article 271 makes it clear that the act is illegal if it is opposed not only... by the Constitution by the coercion, but also by the morale of society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Definitely that we have lost the morale of society because our transparency has bowed to our interests. She bowed down to the interests of funds that never in her history as such called them scavenger or otherwise did not function at the level of one normal income but was always income above all regular procedures. Therefore, one who invests in such a fund certainly expects that there is also an appropriate high return on the funds invested. And that's why when we talk about the harmfulness, the harmfulness that actually derogates and these articles that I've mentioned, what do we find it in? We are just about to apply the Anglo-Saxon right that is ahead of the continental law, which is ahead of the Croatian right based on continental law. Because our legislation would not allow one provision that can be considered and we consider illegal to be above the law. And then the question arises exactly what is defined in Article 274. The Law on Mandatory Relations, which is whether a legal person such as the Agrokora system can enter into legal contracts within its legal capacity? You'll say yes, she's legally capable. He's got his own administration. I'll tell you what kind of administration? It is the administration that has been forced to appoint it, the Croatian state has forced it and said it is being supervised by the court. Was the court manifested? The contract was signed by Mr Ramljak and is compatible and lex Agrokor and consistent with the positive Croatian regulations. Who will this court call to account? Who's he gonna call for damage? And what you'd set up, and you're changing it in this law. Whether invited persons will be called precisely to Article 1050, because I fear that if we do not defend the laws, Croatian legislation and this Law on Mandatory Relations that we will all go exactly in that provision that you are talking about in one package of arrangements from Croatia. And let us not let the Croatian Government, nor the Croatian Parliament, remain passive in this case because we are now fighting fundamental things so that in future time we do not have a whole series of contracts that will change not only Croatian legislation but all of us and as representatives. I would once again warn that the Law on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in Article 14 says the court has control. Will the court assess how much the contract is above the Mandatory Relations Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54809	Thank you, too. We only have replicas, so we'll do it when the replicas are done. The first one's a colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54810	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Panenić, you have opened a series of important questions and it seems difficult to give a single answer now and what we are all interested in especially the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as it is possible that although the Parliament has passed a law popularly called lex Agrokor here, even though under that law the Government of the Republic of Croatia has appointed an extraordinary administration in the company, how it is possible that the Commissioner will sign a contract that is not only placed outside the law but puts it above the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because the contract says that if it is removed, that he will then come for credit to be charged in full. At least how we could see it from the media. The key question is whether the prime minister knew about the conclusion of the contract, if he knew why he had allowed it, if he did not know it had to take action, and this is what was said here today, that the extraordinary commissioner was either removed or set off in the direction of investigating whether the contract was actually signed in accordance with Croatian laws. The situation is certainly not simple, and what could ultimately be a consequence of all this is that Croatian citizens pay for such an irresponsible procedure by an extraordinary commissioner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54811	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54812	Thank you. Dear Representative Zhagar, you've raised one crucial question, what would happen in the event that the reprogrammes, in fact the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by the Minister of Finance, are declared invaluable? So, which, should we, as the Republic of Croatia, suddenly maybe pay, should any credit institution be called to that, no more man we talked to, no more person standing. Have we become one person, is the system of Agrocora one person? Or it's actually a company of capital where half our economy works at a higher or lower level. In fact, we put it in this whole case, we, in fact, should have kind of returned this debate to the Law on Mandatory Relations, but here is Mr. Salapic, who is actually going to have a very unpleasant role today and in this debate. So he went through the law changes we see you can change with one contract. And he needs to defend something that is good, some directive that he will implement, and in fact we will be talking here about much deeper problems facing the Law on Mandatory Relations, and then the question is whether this is the Minister who proposes these amendments, what if the Minister is replaced, if these changes are no longer valid, as long as we come if one contract is signed, suddenly ceases to apply, and then all the damages are done by those who are not signatories in fact. There is a question to be asked, in fact, what is the role of one manager in the Agrokora system right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54813	Thank you. Second in line, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54814	Thank you very much. A colleague of Panenic, you said this was mainly about the EU directive, meaning the Law on Mandatory Relations, however, you said one very important thing that has now been updated, which means that according to this proposal, the transfer of the contract is above Croatian law. It means that contractual obligations in the case of the Law on the Temporary Administration of Systemic Important Companies in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Lex Agrokor, in essence, lost any appointment powers in the public contract, the replacement of the interim manager in Agrokor, and the parliament no longer has any influence. The proposal itself has confirmed that the situation is so serious that the vulture funds that have emerged, and if he has signed those contracts, is it accurate that the government has lost its authority over this... I gave, so-called. [[The speaker doesn't understand...]] Lex Agrokor. And whether the Croatian economy is threatened and left to others to guide it and that this law is essentially suspended, that simply so in the Anglo-Saxon right that these laws are contracts above the law of the Republic of Croatia. Here's a quick and clear question if you can answer me. Thank you very much and for your public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54815	Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54816	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, that's why I've listed the articles of the law that speak of the integrity of some act. So they've put creditors over the government and they're actually canceling the Prime Minister's decision. If Prime Minister Plenkovic says no to me, it's over, we're going to move the man, what's going to happen? They'll say no, no, no, it won't happen, we'll figure out how it's going to be, and you'll pay as you try. So you're going to pay for everything we owe you, $1.06 billion. That's actually what needs to be read, and why did they just call for Anglo-Saxon law? Because we cannot appeal to Croatian law because the two sides said so, we are exempt from national law. I ask you why they didn't accept, okay, the Croatian judiciary is ineffective so they don't trust our judiciary, why don't they tell the German judiciary or someone else who's effective, who is quick and let's go there to have a court, because the same continental right on which Croatian legislation is based and the same ropes would be discussed, there would be no discussion of any act that is an integral part of one contract. So, you're right, we've lost some sovereignty through an ordinary contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54817	And the third replica, dear colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54818	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenic, today we have heard certain things that are repeated here again, and we do not want to hear the truth. But as a reminder, just remember the situation about Agrokor before Easter. Belje had no material, or raw materials for its farms, the situation in Ledo was not great at all, the whole of Konzum has its own cash registers operated softwarely from the Federal Republic of Germany. So the threat was just pressing the button to make it all fall and actually collapse the entire system. By bringing this Lex Agrokor, in fact, what the government has succeeded in is that it created a legal framework in which the operations of Agrokor were saved from bankruptcy. You're wondering if Special Commissioner Ante Ramljak can be replaced or not? You got it. Article 15 of this Act on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia states only in one sentence. The Court may recall an extraordinary commissioner and appoint a new one at any time on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in relation to the extraordinary administration, is established by law and no contract, and the one you're talking about cannot diminish them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54819	Thank you. We're moving on to the debate now. Next is SDP's Club of Representatives and Honored counterpart Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54821	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Associates. Here's a little bit to change, I'm not talking about Agrokor and this is all about what's going on, but about what's going on and what's going on and what's going on and what's going on and what's going on and what's going on and what's going on? So, on the one hand, we have the law and I would say one of the few laws in Croatia that has stabilised and which, in fact, through its application and through the practice of the courts, is causing relatively little problems and, accordingly, has suffered relatively little changes since its adoption. And unfortunately, he's one of the few laws, but here's at least one of them. This change that is before us today, I will certainly and we will certainly support it as a club because it is not only a harmonisation with the directive but it is a precision of certain things that should have been specified, which in one activity will actually raise legal protection of citizens and consumers, on the other hand, to regulate relations in an appropriate way. However, I will point to three things that we may be and which I would recommend to the Proposer to consider through the amendments, either this one, or that would advance the law, in my view, the Law on Mandatory Relations. First, we have a question of tight interest. We also intervened in this law because, as Government, we saw that Croatia has the largest legal tightening interest in Europe. After the intervention, however, they fell to the European average, but what remains remained a certain discrepancy of the law, the interest law. Because we have the interest law that actually lost a good part of its meaning and the rest is, actually, I mean 4, but maybe I'm wrong about the rates. It's something that we couldn't solve in applying to citizens, and especially in the economy, it's causing a problem, and I think it's a subject, and then we couldn't solve it, because we had to intervene this way simply to solve it as soon as possible, but it's something that's matured to solve it in a systematic way and to settle the issue of tight interest. Whether to edit at the zoo, then completely abandon the interest law or exclude the provisions from here, means to remove and place it there, it is certainly up to the Proposer, it can be one and the other solution. But I think it would be good to take advantage of this opportunity when we change the law to commit ourselves to this and end this one question because it's what citizens feel. There's a tight interest coming, she's paying, she's high. I'm saying, we cut it down, she's no longer crossing the capital by not knowing about 5 years like before, 5 or 6, now it takes more, 7, 8 years, so we've cut her down but it's still a problem that needs to be solved. Here's what my proposal would be, so either through this law or through this other one. The other thing, we later have the agenda and the Law on Changes to the Law on Land Books, so that's one question I'd like to open up here, and it's about the purchase of real estate. Whatever we do, as long as we have an unsettled real estate purchase system, we won't have a regulated legal system and we won't have arranged land books. I think it's time and this isn't an ex-post mind because we, and then, if you remember, I was in the debate and then I was saying, we didn't do it, but let's do it now, apply a different model to the purchase of real estate. So what am I saying about that? You now have a system of purchases, purchases where people very often go to the National Journal, buy a contract form for what, 0,40 kuna or kuna, fill it out themselves, verify signatures and it's about millions of real estate, very often, real estate is expensive, come to the execution of the contract, and then they can't do anything because either the real estate is misdescripted or something wrong in the contract etc.. And from that comes the court dispute or she's already sold to someone. How many of our fellow citizens have come into the situation that they have not signed up immediately and have been sold to someone in the meantime, so they cannot register or have someone else sign up for a mortgage, etc. And people actually get into a situation where very often they buy the real estate they've paid for, maybe for which they've saved their whole lives. I think our task of the Croatian Parliament is to arrange this legal traffic in a way that is strictly formalised. On the one hand, I think, and it says in the Constitution and everywhere, ownership is binding. So to prescribe mandatory bookkeeping and automatic bookkeeping. I wouldn't, and I don't see why anyone who bought the apartment would wait with a book. Yes, we will if we want to have an orderly state and that many countries have been going to an automatic book, because taxes are paid only by you leaving citizens to submit or not to the book. Someone forgets, someone doesn't even know they have to do it, and you happen to have that apartment resell or real estate and people have a problem. So that's one point where we, on the one hand, would formalize the whole process and raise its quality. What would you avoid with that, too? They'd avoid the foundry, the green contracts. They're the ones who seem to get people to give up a mortgage, so it's like they're not going to register, so this guy books it for him, etc. Then it's gone. So then you have an automated procedure in which one contract goes to the garnery, one goes to the IRS, as it goes now. The other thing is, we have on the one hand the question of the content of those contracts, on the other hand the issue of form. It's also a solution that I would and I will immediately warn, seemingly collect, because, you wouldn't be able to buy the form by so much,... 40, 50 kuna and make purchases of real estate, but I think you should also make a commitment to any lawyer, any public notary, however it is set up, but that someone guarantees the content of the contract and the form of the contract because then you have a complete contract done which when it is made and when it is sent to the garnery, it cannot be implemented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you've arranged a whole series of legal relations through it, so you do, and if there's something wrong with the contract, then you guarantee the one whose seal is on it. And you got the situation so that when citizens enter the shopping process, they're completely protected. It can't happen that this property can't be spent, it can't be recorded, because it suits him. I say no matter how the system is arranged but the system that would be arranged where, I warn, it's a collection for the citizens, there should be thought then and the tariff, etc., it arranged to be as small as possible, but it guarantees absolute legal certainty. And I think that as a country and when you do, and when we talk about your next Law on Land Book Planning, if we don't take this step, it won't come to that -- I'm not going to say at all how much this would affect the number of disputes because a whole series of disputes arises because, yes, someone sold something twice. Someone sold something at the mortgage, it wouldn't have happened. So, all of them, because people need to know, invest, take credit, sort of fool themselves, but then you have to be legally insured. So it's something that I think we're mature for, if we had to think about it, it's not easy to develop a model, but there's a lot of countries where we'd mean, we solve everything with automation, we'd go to the book and we'd raise an important level of regulation and legal certainty and protect the citizens. Of course, once again, the government must find a solution not to be too expensive. Which won't be easy. For example, in my day it tortured us, and that's why one of the reasons why we didn't go into this is because people are going to object to you, so far I've been doing something for 50 kuna, now you're asking me how many. But you're giving him legal certainty. It goes digitization, goes automatic enrolment, etc. So I ask that you think about it and that when you come to the House, we will discuss it but to support it. The third thing that is well solved in law but in practice a whole series of problems arises, these are life support contracts. Especially life support contracts. The fact is that a whole series of our fellow citizens who are in a difficult situation and these people usually get into these contracts or they're old, they're powerless, they don't have some kind of family support, sometimes they're not educated, they come into a situation to be damaged. And we as a Parliament, you as a government, must do everything we can to protect these people. And now, according to what we all know and almost there aren't any of us who don't have a case about it, these people aren't protected. So that's what I'm going to put just a few points in which direction we should go but it's the subject of the zoo and he's looking for a solution because these cases are here before us. These people, when they find themselves in it, often do not welcome the outcome of a dispute, and too many of them who have real estate die in misery because someone cheated on them. And that's bad. So it's one thing to introduce stricter rules for the verification, to solemnize that contract. The fact that it's not right now. Because it turns out that people often get into it without it being a real sign of their will. That's one thing. Secondly, for me and whoever is angry or not angry, a circle of people who can enter those contracts should be considered. I'm not sure if the people who care about these people are either the owners of some social institutions, so worry, etc., whether they should be allowed into this. Whether or not smiles should also be allowed to employees of welfare centres that are people, means that they are able to get into it but should be put under special control in these cases. So these are some things that citizens expect from our citizens and that can be relatively easy to get rid of now. They do not require funds, time can be done quickly, and we will help many citizens who are in a lot of trouble. One more thing, the disputes that run around this, I don't think they're in a hurry, should be hasty. You have someone who's very many years old, who's agreed to get restraints, doesn't get it, and he's out of property, that person can't wait 10 years or 5 years for a solution to his dispute. And unfortunately, that's how long it takes. And that's where we're going to be and symbolic if we make that step, maybe it doesn't help a lot of people but help those people who need it. So what I've put forward are proposals for interventions into a law that is generally good, the changes you're going to be supporting, of course, but these are proposals that we, as a Parliament, as a government, need to take care of together, and if we step up at least in something about this, the citizens will be better off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54822	Thank you. It's three replicas. The first is a distinguished colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54823	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milenić, of course, all the measures you have now proposed to advance this legislative proposal, I personally support, and I would like you to support this proposal now and the secretary of state will hear it. In fact, we as a society have been set up in our strategies towards e-socials, so we have a system of e-citizens, we have a Central State Office for Digital Society, we have an e-signature law, and in that sense it would be good, and maybe that would improve the supply of banks. It would be good for Article 998 to be added in paragraph 1 to say issues... A savings book or electronic savings book and in Article 999 to be entered into the book means the seal is moved, it is okay to sign the bank and by electronic means. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That there's this possibility that there's this kind of electronic savings book. Given that interest on savings is decreasing, given that there is a tax, banks may be offering citizens a new product that would be linked to an electronic savings book especially for those citizens who do not have a permanent income, who cannot take out a current account and thus may enable them to have a credit card and can then act better in that account. I don't think that, in order for this law to be a problem, we'll see, the secretary of state can be shown about it, there'll be another reading, if it doesn't work out, I'll put in an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54824	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54825	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, absolutely, that's something, what you mentioned, so all the people who are on Internet banking today can, if they have to transfer very large amounts of money precisely electronically. I don't see any reason to keep papers when we all know that electronics are better recorded and simpler, and that's where I totally agree with you. The whole system wherever it is, it's the intensity of many laws, but the zoo needs to give it support wherever it can move to electronic processing and data storage. When you do that, I was just talking about land books, you came into a situation that you actually have no paper in the whole process. A lot has been done at the Ministry of Justice on this, and it's good, these changes that go on but that should continue. So you, we need to get to the point that you from home to one place will actually be able to solve most of the things. Here's what I absolutely support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54826	Second replica, dear fellow Falcon, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54827	Thank you, Mr. President. So this is certainly an interesting idea, what about the purchase of real estate, and we can agree that in our system there is a problem with the lack of knowledge of people and legal entities in their rights. So we had there I think in the late '90s, so when the guarantees were very popular, people didn't know what that meant. Then the whole story about the Swiss loan, the variable interest, and now this. However, is it necessary to change the whole system because of this? We already have in the system something called a note, meaning it exists as something that provides protection to whoever made the purchase contract before he paid the full price and got a tabular statement that he could protect. We can, I know it's a practice already today that public notebooks, on the occasion of a signature certificate, warn citizens of the possibility of a note. You can fill out a form, very briefly, within 2 minutes to which you can immediately submit a request for a note there. So, what I'm saying is, I think that the existing system provides opportunities to protect itself, but we need to work on general education, and I'm not going to tell education, but to inform and inform people about what their rights are and what opportunities are. I would also point out, the other problem is that with a tabular statement. So if, at what point would that contract go to the garland. So not only when it's concluded but only when a tabular is issued, so it would have to go back to the public notebook and then we'd have to send each other. So that makes the whole thing complicated again. And the third thing I would mention, one problem that exists, which is not related to this, and that's the question when some company that took the mortgage, the investor who took the mortgage, that company goes into trouble, and then those mortgages stay, citizens have to pay for it. We've had cases like this before. That's maybe one bigger problem that you wouldn't solve with this, at least as far as I can tell. So I think that, in any case, we should first work on informing citizens about what opportunities the existing system gives before we enter a major reform, in fact, all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54828	Thank you very much. The answer of the honourable MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54829	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, yes, you're partly right, but I'm not sure that until we introduce a mandatory ownership registration system within a certain time limit that we will move forward. You mentioned this case yourself about the mortgage, it cannot be solved in the current system. And you now have people who, you know, when you're taking credit, living, you've burdened yourself for 10, 20, 30 years, and maybe you got into it on the basis of something that's not there, where someone else signed up in the meantime. Good for a mortgage loan is specific because the bank always checks out, that's fine with me. But maybe you had your savings, so there's no element. So, what I'm saying is, we need to build a system that will lead the whole process. It's electronic today. But why don't you dress him up? So if I or you bought real estate from me, so let's go, then I need to know that I have someone's seal and that my contract is enforceable and that the form of the contract is such that it's going to be enforceable. And send her, whoever she is, a public notebook to the garter and I'm done. But you will then, there will never be another dispute over that apartment because it is resolved. And we with this not only removed from the jurisdiction of the entire series of disputes, we protected the citizens. I'm warning it would pick up the process, so that's what we as a Parliament need to talk about, but it would completely protect the citizens. You couldn't have any more of those cashiers that you're supposed to get, give me an apartment, here's 10 grand, and I'll book it or I won't. That wouldn't be possible either. So you're giving one important legal certainty to the citizens. It's a big step, but let's talk about it, that's why we're here in the Parliament, we can have a debate, it could be another model. But I'm saying, let's take a chance when we change things open a question and try to find a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54830	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Orsat, you mentioned in your speech the problem with contracts, or the safety of a life-long, death-restraint contract. Those of us who had the chance to listen to the attorney general last night, or the attorney general, that was one of her warnings yesterday. So she gave us information as the elderly are growing in Croatia, that the life of the younger ones who once cared for these older ones, or parents, is such that they simply don't have time or financial opportunities comes to the conclusion of various contracts on this available life support, which, unfortunately, according to the attorney general, end up in very difficult and ugly forms for the person who signed this contract with some service provider. What she warned about was that when it comes to the conclusion of a law, when such a single contract is concluded, it should strengthen security for old and powerless persons. And under 2nd, it should be in the courts, so when there's a complaint in court, that it should have priority, because of course what's going on. It happens, therefore, that although this older and powerless person complains, he usually does not welcome the verdict and dies in very inhumane conditions of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54832	Thank you very much. The answer of the honourable MP Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, on the one hand, I wouldn't want my discussion to be understood as an attack on those contracts, because they are important and necessary. And we need to count on it, that most of it, I believe, that most of the people who got into them really got the benefit they wanted. And on the side of those who receive and give, because it is always so. However, what you said, considering, especially when it comes to the death maintenance, where you, in fact, already for life, give up certain assets and you can come to the mercy of the other Contracting Party. You must be particularly protected here, all of you. We speak old and powerless, not just that. Everyone can get in a situation where they need something like that. And the law that has given a good framework, in my opinion, needs to be raised, on the one hand, this part about how this person will inform himself about his rights and how it will be checked whether it is the will of that person, that it does not happen, that someone who has certain diseases etc. brought into a situation to sign it and give up property, which is happening. And on the other hand, if there's a delay in getting rid of it quickly. With that, you need to know that the situation is very often the other way around. That those who spoke, they provide everything they said, and those who should give up property are not satisfied, and that is where the dispute arises. But in any case, these are deep, social disputes, which are very burdensome for us as a society, and they should be resolved by haste procedure. Because, I'm saying, people, they come into life's trouble, they give away property, maybe they could sell out of it and live on it. No, they gave someone to keep them. And now, if there's a dispute on one side or another, let's let him get rid of it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54834	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is. Now we can finally go back to the agenda point again, to remind you that we have dealt with other than the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, so now, on behalf of the HDZ Club, they will talk about it, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54836	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So here are the amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations which are proposed to delete the provisions governing travel arrangements, so Articles 881 to 903, which have been transposed into Croatian legislation by the old directive on travel in package arrangements, the 1990s directive. The new directive sets out that directive out of force, hence the package travel directive and related travel arrangements, the 2015 directive, which will be transposed into Croatian legislation by the new Law on the provision of services in tourism. The Secretary of State here explained in detail what the new directive is adopting, and due to the substantive link between the provisions of that directive, it was assessed that from the aspect, nomotechnics, legal certainty, applicability, clarity of the rules the best normative solution to transpose the new directive into Croatian legislation, hence all its provisions in the new Tourism Service Act. Furthermore, this proposal proposes to amend Article 999 in order to free banks, i.e. savings banks, from the use of seals in the introduction of payments and payment of money in savings books and all in accordance with the final government on the measure of abolishing the use of the stamp from 4 May 2016. Finally, rather than less important to these amendments to the law, the law also complies with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and terms of mental illness and lagging mental development are replaced by expressions of mental and intellectual damage. The HDZ Club will support amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54837	Thank you very much. We've got one last-minute replica. What? [[Intruder: No, no, replica can, no no.]] Ah, come on then give me a line, please. [[Intruder: He's reporting for...]] [[Intruder: I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club, and can I get a replica before?]] [[No, he doesn't want a replica.]] Here's my colleague Bulj, you have the opportunity to participate individually in the debate as you have reported but now on amendments to the law on mandatory relations. There you are, an expert, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54839	Mr. Reiner, every parliamentary representative has received the legitimacy to speak and you to assess as chairman of who will speak, I only know that this is an EU directive and that it is in a serious state. And I'm from you, but when you're involved, and no one's dragged you by your tongue, and you, as chairman, can't judge the MPs as you wish. You can request a pay phone and speak on behalf of the club, individually and thus cannot react. And these directives that we are being put into the Law on Mandatory Relations are also visible through the now suspension of the law passed by this Parliament. By humiliating parliamentary representatives, you, Andrej Plenkovic, will not allow this people to do so. This body is to be disbanded, you have commented on Mr. Chairman in one way in your style, of course in a dodgy way, is that you are the chairman then would have called Andrej Plenkovic and would have said parliamentary representatives are asking you Mr. Prime Minister to show yourself about one of the biggest crises and threats where vulture funds, scavengers have the opportunity to take charge of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well. This is a colonial way of managing, and so I would ask you when you comment, you can give your word, you can subtract, you can remind me, it's your right, but I didn't deserve your comment. Otherwise you who destroyed the Croatian state, you who are raising your hands for Agrokor to grow in this way, you who pushed us into all European associations please call Yes, but you've commented... [[Invader Reiner: colleague Bulj, we are talking about amending the law on mandatory relations.]] that someone is an expert or not an expert. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54840	No. I'm, I'm, I'm just thinking that each of the MPs He has the right to speak, of course, and he's an expert at talking about everything and everything. [[Intruder Bulj: You say that according to the Rules of Procedure everyone...]] So I see no reason why, for your reaction, but I ask you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54841	Let's repeat what you said when you called me to speak. Say the whole sentence again, I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54842	I'm sorry, you can't, you can't delaminate with me, I'm begging you to speak You can't run this session because the MPs the people have chosen are looking for the public to explain, [[Intruding Bulj: And with me in my debate you are polymizing yet stop me time and take my phone and official phone and call Andreja Plenkovići...]] to explain what's going on, right now with the lex. [[Intruder Reiner: Comrade Bulj, you cannot run this session, understand that.]] I'm asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54843	I'm sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54844	You're not sticking to the subject at all, but you're trying to delve into me all the time, which I can't think of.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54845	I would like to ask the esteemed proponent, I will be brief, with the vice president I do not wish to pollemise, of course, but as a representative I have the right to speak about this law, although the chairman, Mr. Honorable Proposer, would forbid me especially in this, probably in the style of Andrej Plenkovic, however, Plenkovic is betrayed, will pass as he is now... It is simply how they behave, and I am amazed at this very law today which is an EU directive, and we see that we are referring to Angolan law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So today, we are in this economic situation contract with the largest economic giant that holds the economic system, mainly food and agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that this law that has been suspended, lex Agrokor, in a way that the contract will be above it, that the scavengers will take over our economy, that we in the Assembly will be very little able to decide or in no way in the grand part of the Republic, that this law is worth exactly as much as this paper. You can break up freely, because in this way, as Andrej Plenkovic behaves, and he has taken up that role and chair and everyone next to him chairing, he does not want to come before parliamentary representatives and answer the public's questions about the cases of new documents that have appeared, lex Agrokor, where Angolan law these contracts with funds, essentially loses any authority or let him not explain if he does not lose. And I think this debate is essentially unnecessary. This debate is unnecessary until we resolve the key moment, because this Parliament will no longer be able to manage it, the whole of Croatia will be taken over by vulture funds and I believe that elections will not be needed in the finality, and the diameter has taken the role of Pharaoh and does not want to enter this House, and because no one can even call him obviously, because someone called him would probably come and come. And that is the obligation and those who chair the session, nor have the courage to call him anything, I want to call him, and we will insist on that, and we believe that this is a very important issue and this new documentation that has appeared in public, we have all seen it, we have seen contracts that mean at the Assembly stretching about Agrokor and the law that we have passed. However, Andrej Plenkovic is not advertised, Andrej Plenkovic is likely to have received information, it should be confirmed by the chairman, as colleagues from most of the majority and I hope and believe that most colleagues expect answers to these questions. This is a very important question. So I doubt my colleague Shucker believes and expects no answers from the diameter of these questions and Mr Ramljak. As a matter of fact, the question is who manages Croatia or Mr. Ramljak or Mr. Plenkovic. So talk about the Mandatory Relations Act, where we suspended our law, where most important to our resources to the largest part of the Republic of Croatia and the economically endangered economic system is where we introduce the Anglo-Saxon Law that will be a contract above our laws, I don't know if it's pointless until we're clear. And that must tell us, Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mr Ramljak, or possibly exclude Minister Maric from saying financially, would have to know either the CNB eventually to come to either HANFA or the Stability Council or otherwise to talk about this law, is pointless until we resolve it. Therefore, Mr. Dear Secretary, do not find yourself offended, but indeed, the current situation in Croatia after these contracts that went public, this law is simply suspended, and is suspended by a man who is obviously acting like Pharaoh Andrej Plenkovic, but must know that this Parliament has chosen him and that he is obliged to speak to the Assembly speaker on these issues, and thus answer the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54846	Thank you very much. You see, fellow Bull, you are probably aware that you have violated Art. 238. And that I should give you a warning. Because you were talking about the subject of not being on the agenda. However, I did not, of course, give you a warning and I do not intend to give you a warning, because in the end, your larger coalition partner has announced that it will obstruct the work of this Parliament just on permanent breaks, which is happening today, and, in fact, by challenging the situation in which we would receive warnings, we will be thrown out and everything. I won't give it up, so I won't do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54847	238. Hurt Businessman because you put me in my mouth and I should talk about what you should talk about, I was talking to the secretary of state, and you were talking to me right at the beginning, in an announcement you said Miro Bulj, you want to professionally explain it. Of course, all of you experts were leading the country in the right direction, never having been to Parliament by Miro Bulj, and a number of other people, but you were speaking in the other direction. You have injured the Rules of Procedure, and you know it very well, and you hold such a session, and as for the reminder, only give to us those who report. [[Intruder Reiner: Of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] It is our duty in the House to answer and speak, to express our views in our own way. And you have no right to us, nor can you, we have received the legality of the people to say what we shall say. I was saying to the secretary exactly what I was supposed to say that today we have a lot more important things, and that today this law, which he's saying... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54848	Thank you very much, your time is up, and you're completely wrong, of course, but, you know, there's no point in talking about it. The individual debate has come to the attention of Honorary Representative Gordan Maras, who is gone, who is losing his word, so I will conclude the debate. We move on to the next point because we have finished the previous point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54850	Proposal for a law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, P.Z. No. 208, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations and Others will be adopted, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 114 for and 1 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54851	The next item is: - Final bill on amendments to the Law on land books, second reading, P.Z. No. 156 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. They held the debate for legislation and the Justice Committee. Does the applicant's representative want to give further reasons? Yeah. Dear Josip Salapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54852	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books. For the most part, this final proposal for a law includes amendments and additions to the provisions relating to the procedures for the establishment, renewal and addition of land books and the process of individual transformation. The remaining provisions, which have been amended or supplemented, relate to certain technical issues which were required by law. The most important objective of these changes is that due to the increase in the number of procedures for the establishment of reconstruction and addition of land books and the implementation of individual transformation procedures and with the aim of harmonising land-based and cadastrian data, we propose new solutions. Transfer of power to assembly z.k.a. the entry in the procedure of the renewal of land books to the judge, from the judge to the court advisor, to the authorised land-book reference officer, which will speed up the procedure. The possibility of not conducting the debate for the assembly of a land-book cartridge when the data came from a cadastrian... The reduction of the time limit for submitting applications and complaints after a hearing was held one to three months earlier was one month to one year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Definition of the process of individual transformation after which the cadastar particles are harmonised, are transferred to the land-book database. The reason for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books is, among other things, the dynamicity of changes in the land-based system, particularly in business processes and work organisation based on new IT technologies. The emerging business processes, the organisation of work, the information technology needed to be legally defined in order to apply them to legal transport. The adoption of this law is also foreseen by the National Programme for the Reform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the measures to improve the cataster and land books systems. As this is the final proposal for this law, we adopted the opinion of the Committee on Law-making in a new and technical way and introduced some changes that we had discussed in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54853	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first to represent Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54854	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, here's a short replica, and it's related to the current work of the Justice Department. In fact, what's important is what we all agree when we talk about investments in the Republic of Croatia both on the left and on the right and on the centre, that we should allow everything to be started. I wonder what the Department of Justice is doing to unite land and catastrian books? In fact, while MOST was still in the government, Minister Sprlje was well prepared, so everything was prepared and should start to implement it. What's going on here, and why don't we just put it this way conditionally, get off the zero point, if that's the case? And we have information that that's the case. So it doesn't matter who started a certain good project. It's important to implement it regardless of the political option. Once again, I stress that this will make it easier for many investors to operate better and operate at the end of the state administration and then better access to those who are interested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54855	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, regarding land and book law. As counterpart Sagar said, at a time when Mr. Sprlje was a minister, it was an intensive project to combine land books and catastras. This project was announced as one of the most important in the government, on a daily basis they communicated with the director of the geodetic administration and designed ways to implement it. After the ministry took over HDZ, we haven't heard a single word about this project. At present, we have a very unscheduled state of land books that should be connected to another slightly more orderly but still unsettled. Since it's announced as a strike reform, I'm asking where it's stuck. One positive example that can be done. So, when the minister was Mr. Sprlje, the Ministry of Justice in fact in some way brought changes to the land books of Blato Zagreb where the Ministry of Justice borrowed land and book references to the municipal court of Novi Zagreb, which within a year managed to bring the land and book state of the catastrian municipality to order for almost 50 years. It's a very attractive country at the Arena Center where all investments have been stopped due to the disorderly state of land books. That example was proof that you can do it whenever you want, so here's the question, where is it stuck?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54857	Thank you. On behalf of the GLAS Representatives' Club in HSU, the esteemed Anka Mrak-Taritash, is missing, losing his right to speak. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Orsat Milenic. I'm sorry, I didn't see. On behalf of the SDP club, the hand was raised by a respected representative, Franco Vidovic. We will proceed with the point, and on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Tomislav Sokol will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54859	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, Assistant, fellow MPs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I will talk about the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books. The issue of editing land books is one of the most important issues for the future of the Croatian economy. And that's why I'm sorry that this topic has remained overshadowed by some other things, but here's what we can do. It is clear that in an environment of unresolved property-legal relations where individual investors need years to prepare investments, we cannot expect major shifts in the level of economic activity of foreign direct investments in the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, editing the land-book system is one of the top priorities of this government. Unfortunately, between 1945 and 1990, there was a legal disorder, neglect of ownership legal relations, and a land - book system, which led to a huge discrepancy between the catasters and land books today. But what is particularly important through this and the difference between the real situation, the real ownership-legal relationship and what is listed in the land book, which should be a key register in which ownership rights are maintained. Land Book Reform and the '95 Catastra. In recent years it has been carried out through continuity with the aim of establishing an efficient modern and transparent system for the management of land library and catastrian data in electronic form. It should be noted that an important part of these amendments is financed through the European Commission's donations and the World Bank's loan. This has thus far been achieved among other things, today all land books are conducted exclusively in electronic form with data available via the internet without compensation for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we remember sometimes about 10 years ago, when that wasn't the case. Furthermore, there are 430 to 450 thousand land-based book items each year, with an average of 0.4 million to 1.5 million land-based copies. In addition, all technical preconditions for the electronic operation of land-based book courts, means IT infrastructure, equipment, land-based library staff education and, in particular, the establishment of a common information system, and its implementation at all locations of the land-based library department, have been ensured. The legislative proposal, which is ahead of us, if I believe a high degree of consent is achieved, continues to implement that land-book and catastra reform, in a way that the Land Book Act is composed of new legal instruments which are defined by the completion of the projects funded by the EU and World Bank. Support for individual recasting and setting up digital archives of land books for the purpose of establishing an integrated land book system. So this is the last IPA project in 2010. The completion of these projects opened the creation of digital business in all business processes of land-based book law, which, of course, regulates the entire legal framework of business in the land-based book court... adopts this legislative proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Secretary of State has already mentioned them, but I will also try not to repeat myself too much, but I will point out what I consider particularly important. First, it would point out that a new provision is added, which is defined by the structure of electronic management of a public register called e-Citizens. Since the specific regulations governing it are not regulated by the question of legal status of the print, i.e., documents from the register e-build, this provision covers the gap when the print is the basis for the entry of a real land book, and there is no status of a public id, nor the status of a certified private id. In that case, the Court shall verify the content and verify the document which is the basis for the entry or constitutes one of the foundations. Furthermore, which would highlight the amended Art. 179. Law on land books. By that amendment, it is ensured that the content of all key activities in the process of establishing the rams and supplementing the land book is more fully affected. Those procedures shall be specified in the terms of a fully transparent article. Law on land books. So the provisions are united in one place. The differences in types of procedures are defined and obligations are prescribed and... the work of cadastrian and land-based library officials, thus achieving maximum data coherence, according to which land-based book cartridges will be drawn up but significant savings in labour costs are achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, what he would point out is that such party actions are called 1 by invitation. This is one step towards the integration of land books and catastra systems. Furthermore, as the secretary of state noted, it is envisaged that the discussion for the collection of the cartridge is carried out by the authorised land reference officer, while judges or judicial advisers have so far done so. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 179 And the Law on Land Books was added to a provision that could be entrusted to the same business by the Land Book Reference without special authority, under the supervision of a judge or court counselor. The inclusion of land library referencing in the process of refurbishing and supplementing the land book in the section relating to the assembly of the stakes is freed time for judges and judicial advisers to work in other business procedures prescribed by this law. Treatment of proposals for individual correct procedures, etc. Since there is a shortage of judges, judicial advisers, in some courts,... municipal courts, for this type of procedure, should therefore be speeded up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, what would be important is the possibility of individual reshaping of the land book without the need to carry out long-term and expensive cadastrian measurements, the application for electronic databases and the electronic transmission of all harmonised data in a shorter period of time and at no extra cost, and the continuation of the management and the cadastrian municipality in the single register and the application of the common business processes of catasters and land books. The final objective of the process of individual transformation is to transfer all cadastrian particles of a single catastrian municipality to a common database, of which moments the catastrian municipality continues to lead only in that base. This is extremely important, and in this way it is actually possible to integrate data through this individual process, what is crucial is that the land book corresponds to what is the real situation on the ground, and what is now closer to the disaster. So this is how such unification of facts is achieved in one place. Creating a legal framework for dealing with individual transformations... both the catastra and the implementation of IT business processes applications in the land library system, the harmonisation of land library and cadastrian data is expected in a short time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what matters. It is essential that we have one functional unification, so that the land book responds to a real scale on the ground and the state of ownership of legal relations, and in this sense thinks that this is a positive step in reforming our land library system. Of course, other than faster processes, this marks and leads to significant financial savings. Finally, the HDZ Club believes this is a positive step in the right direction and will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54860	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Frank Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54861	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Sokol, you said in your statement that this is an issue concerning the economy and the future of the economy and that you are sorry that it is in some way in the shadows. I couldn't agree more with you, but on the other hand, is one topic of this moment more important than the situation in Agrokor? Because Agrokor, unfortunately, as it is, at this point represents the essence of the Croatian economy. It represents the horror of the Croatian economy. If the true contract that came out in the media, we have a big problem, a billion-dollar problem. So there is not a single topic in the economy of this moment, which is more important than Agrokor, so here I am asking you, that you also influence the Prime Minister who is also the president of your party and that you invite him to come to this Parliament. There's nothing to be afraid of. We're all people here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54862	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54863	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree that Agrokor is an important topic, but precisely because of this importance of the topic, I think we need more reasoned debates with the fact-checking and conversation without banging some flossules that I'm simply not telling you personally right now, but the level of debate that was heard today in this assembly. So a lot is said that it does not stand legally, which simply in terms of legal regulation, contracts, international private law, contracts of applicable law simply does not stand, and some legal institutes that have been known in international business for years have been attacked. So what we need, I agree, is an important topic, but there is a need for more reasoned debate between people who know something about the subject without speaking in mind to collect cheap political points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54864	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54865	Dear colleague, this is a very important topic. Why is it an important topic? We're still living in the system, we're coming out of a system that has annulled legal private property, and that's the core of all our problems, and that's also the problem of Agrokor and that's the problem of decommunisation. Just one more of those topics. The paper puts up with everything. This sounded wonderful what you read, but I said yesterday you had lies, bigger lies statistics. What happened between the transfer from social property to private property? Total chaos. We have total chaos in the field and we have lawlessness, legal violence and violence against individuals, on real people. People come here every day where people attribute their particles. That's scary! Today, six people came to me on the subject. People build on other people's land, taken away, confiscated land, on family land is done. These were killed, people were making some oligarchs, hotels were buying that were built on estranged land, confiscated land. I'd just mention that it was taken away by German... 11, $11 billion in current value of land mostly in Luxembourg. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the state of Ontario could make a register, digitize 51 million land particles in 11, 12 years why can't we do that? And why are they still doing this legal chaos? And who will come to you again in that country where 5%, 6% of land books are arranged, and a catastrus from Austria-Hungarian etc. You have a simple system, you have your particle, you get a PIN who's in the bank, and that's yours. No one can steal that from you. It's a simple system. And we still don't have a system 22 years after the Homeland War. If you can't do it, get people out there, they'll show you how to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54866	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54867	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with you and your presentation, but I have three questions for you. What do you think should be recognised if the right of ownership of those who are more than 20 years in peaceful possession and so far this property has been held as property of the Republic of Croatia. The second thing you think is to shorten the registration procedures in a way that uses a cadastral elaborat by, certified by the DGU as a basis for correcting the enrolment. And the third thing that you think is whether, that building land that is by PPU municipalities and cities is recognised for permanent ownership in favour of units of local administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54868	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives is the esteemed Stjepan Curaj. He's losing his right to speak. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, distinguished representative Boris Milosevic. And I'm sorry, he's losing his right to speak. We'll continue the debate. The individual debate was attended by a distinguished representative of Gordan Maras, who is missing, who is losing his right to debate. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when you get the terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54870	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on land books, second reading, P.Z. No. 156, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 113 votes for and 3 against have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54871	The next item is: - Final bill on amendments to the Law on land books, second reading, P.Z. No. 156 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. They held the debate for legislation and the Justice Committee. Does the applicant's representative want to give further reasons? Yeah. Dear Josip Salapic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54872	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, we have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books. For the most part, this final proposal for a law includes amendments and additions to the provisions relating to the procedures for the establishment, renewal and addition of land books and the process of individual transformation. The remaining provisions, which have been amended or supplemented, relate to certain technical issues which were required by law. The most important objective of these changes is that due to the increase in the number of procedures for the establishment of reconstruction and addition of land books and the implementation of individual transformation procedures and with the aim of harmonising land-based and cadastrian data, we propose new solutions. Transfer of power to assembly z.k.a. the entry in the procedure of the renewal of land books to the judge, from the judge to the court advisor, to the authorised land-book reference officer, which will speed up the procedure. The possibility of not conducting the debate for the assembly of a land-book cartridge when the data came from a cadastrian... The reduction of the time limit for submitting applications and complaints after a hearing was held one to three months earlier was one month to one year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Definition of the process of individual transformation after which the cadastar particles are harmonised, are transferred to the land-book database. The reason for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books is, among other things, the dynamicity of changes in the land-based system, particularly in business processes and work organisation based on new IT technologies. The emerging business processes, the organisation of work, the information technology needed to be legally defined in order to apply them to legal transport. The adoption of this law is also foreseen by the National Programme for the Reform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the measures to improve the cataster and land books systems. As this is the final proposal for this law, we adopted the opinion of the Committee on Law-making in a new and technical way and introduced some changes that we had discussed in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54873	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first to represent Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54874	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, here's a short replica, and it's related to the current work of the Justice Department. In fact, what's important is what we all agree when we talk about investments in the Republic of Croatia both on the left and on the right and on the centre, that we should allow everything to be started. I wonder what the Department of Justice is doing to unite land and catastrian books? In fact, while MOST was still in the government, Minister Sprlje was well prepared, so everything was prepared and should start to implement it. What's going on here, and why don't we just put it this way conditionally, get off the zero point, if that's the case? And we have information that that's the case. So it doesn't matter who started a certain good project. It's important to implement it regardless of the political option. Once again, I stress that this will make it easier for many investors to operate better and operate at the end of the state administration and then better access to those who are interested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54875	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, regarding land and book law. As counterpart Sagar said, at a time when Mr. Sprlje was a minister, it was an intensive project to combine land books and catastras. This project was announced as one of the most important in the government, on a daily basis they communicated with the director of the geodetic administration and designed ways to implement it. After the ministry took over HDZ, we haven't heard a single word about this project. At present, we have a very unscheduled state of land books that should be connected to another slightly more orderly but still unsettled. Since it's announced as a strike reform, I'm asking where it's stuck. One positive example that can be done. So, when the minister was Mr. Sprlje, the Ministry of Justice in fact in some way brought changes to the land books of Blato Zagreb where the Ministry of Justice borrowed land and book references to the municipal court of Novi Zagreb, which within a year managed to bring the land and book state of the catastrian municipality to order for almost 50 years. It's a very attractive country at the Arena Center where all investments have been stopped due to the disorderly state of land books. That example was proof that you can do it whenever you want, so here's the question, where is it stuck?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54877	Thank you. On behalf of the GLAS Representatives' Club in HSU, the esteemed Anka Mrak-Taritash, is missing, losing his right to speak. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Orsat Milenic. I'm sorry, I didn't see. On behalf of the SDP club, the hand was raised by a respected representative, Franco Vidovic. We will proceed with the point, and on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Tomislav Sokol will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54879	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, Assistant, fellow MPs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I will talk about the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books. The issue of editing land books is one of the most important issues for the future of the Croatian economy. And that's why I'm sorry that this topic has remained overshadowed by some other things, but here's what we can do. It is clear that in an environment of unresolved property-legal relations where individual investors need years to prepare investments, we cannot expect major shifts in the level of economic activity of foreign direct investments in the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, editing the land-book system is one of the top priorities of this government. Unfortunately, between 1945 and 1990, there was a legal disorder, neglect of ownership legal relations, and a land - book system, which led to a huge discrepancy between the catasters and land books today. But what is particularly important through this and the difference between the real situation, the real ownership-legal relationship and what is listed in the land book, which should be a key register in which ownership rights are maintained. Land Book Reform and the '95 Catastra. In recent years it has been carried out through continuity with the aim of establishing an efficient modern and transparent system for the management of land library and catastrian data in electronic form. It should be noted that an important part of these amendments is financed through the European Commission's donations and the World Bank's loan. This has thus far been achieved among other things, today all land books are conducted exclusively in electronic form with data available via the internet without compensation for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we remember sometimes about 10 years ago, when that wasn't the case. Furthermore, there are 430 to 450 thousand land-based book items each year, with an average of 0.4 million to 1.5 million land-based copies. In addition, all technical preconditions for the electronic operation of land-based book courts, means IT infrastructure, equipment, land-based library staff education and, in particular, the establishment of a common information system, and its implementation at all locations of the land-based library department, have been ensured. The legislative proposal, which is ahead of us, if I believe a high degree of consent is achieved, continues to implement that land-book and catastra reform, in a way that the Land Book Act is composed of new legal instruments which are defined by the completion of the projects funded by the EU and World Bank. Support for individual recasting and setting up digital archives of land books for the purpose of establishing an integrated land book system. So this is the last IPA project in 2010. The completion of these projects opened the creation of digital business in all business processes of land-based book law, which, of course, regulates the entire legal framework of business in the land-based book court... adopts this legislative proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Secretary of State has already mentioned them, but I will also try not to repeat myself too much, but I will point out what I consider particularly important. First, it would point out that a new provision is added, which is defined by the structure of electronic management of a public register called e-Citizens. Since the specific regulations governing it are not regulated by the question of legal status of the print, i.e., documents from the register e-build, this provision covers the gap when the print is the basis for the entry of a real land book, and there is no status of a public id, nor the status of a certified private id. In that case, the Court shall verify the content and verify the document which is the basis for the entry or constitutes one of the foundations. Furthermore, which would highlight the amended Art. 179. Law on land books. By that amendment, it is ensured that the content of all key activities in the process of establishing the rams and supplementing the land book is more fully affected. Those procedures shall be specified in the terms of a fully transparent article. Law on land books. So the provisions are united in one place. The differences in types of procedures are defined and obligations are prescribed and... the work of cadastrian and land-based library officials, thus achieving maximum data coherence, according to which land-based book cartridges will be drawn up but significant savings in labour costs are achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, what he would point out is that such party actions are called 1 by invitation. This is one step towards the integration of land books and catastra systems. Furthermore, as the secretary of state noted, it is envisaged that the discussion for the collection of the cartridge is carried out by the authorised land reference officer, while judges or judicial advisers have so far done so. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 179 And the Law on Land Books was added to a provision that could be entrusted to the same business by the Land Book Reference without special authority, under the supervision of a judge or court counselor. The inclusion of land library referencing in the process of refurbishing and supplementing the land book in the section relating to the assembly of the stakes is freed time for judges and judicial advisers to work in other business procedures prescribed by this law. Treatment of proposals for individual correct procedures, etc. Since there is a shortage of judges, judicial advisers, in some courts,... municipal courts, for this type of procedure, should therefore be speeded up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, what would be important is the possibility of individual reshaping of the land book without the need to carry out long-term and expensive cadastrian measurements, the application for electronic databases and the electronic transmission of all harmonised data in a shorter period of time and at no extra cost, and the continuation of the management and the cadastrian municipality in the single register and the application of the common business processes of catasters and land books. The final objective of the process of individual transformation is to transfer all cadastrian particles of a single catastrian municipality to a common database, of which moments the catastrian municipality continues to lead only in that base. This is extremely important, and in this way it is actually possible to integrate data through this individual process, what is crucial is that the land book corresponds to what is the real situation on the ground, and what is now closer to the disaster. So this is how such unification of facts is achieved in one place. Creating a legal framework for dealing with individual transformations... both the catastra and the implementation of IT business processes applications in the land library system, the harmonisation of land library and cadastrian data is expected in a short time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what matters. It is essential that we have one functional unification, so that the land book responds to a real scale on the ground and the state of ownership of legal relations, and in this sense thinks that this is a positive step in reforming our land library system. Of course, other than faster processes, this marks and leads to significant financial savings. Finally, the HDZ Club believes this is a positive step in the right direction and will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54880	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first to be respected representative of Frank Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54881	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Sokol, you said in your statement that this is an issue concerning the economy and the future of the economy and that you are sorry that it is in some way in the shadows. I couldn't agree more with you, but on the other hand, is one topic of this moment more important than the situation in Agrokor? Because Agrokor, unfortunately, as it is, at this point represents the essence of the Croatian economy. It represents the horror of the Croatian economy. If the true contract that came out in the media, we have a big problem, a billion-dollar problem. So there is not a single topic in the economy of this moment, which is more important than Agrokor, so here I am asking you, that you also influence the Prime Minister who is also the president of your party and that you invite him to come to this Parliament. There's nothing to be afraid of. We're all people here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54882	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54883	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree that Agrokor is an important topic, but precisely because of this importance of the topic, I think we need more reasoned debates with the fact-checking and conversation without banging some flossules that I'm simply not telling you personally right now, but the level of debate that was heard today in this assembly. So a lot is said that it does not stand legally, which simply in terms of legal regulation, contracts, international private law, contracts of applicable law simply does not stand, and some legal institutes that have been known in international business for years have been attacked. So what we need, I agree, is an important topic, but there is a need for more reasoned debate between people who know something about the subject without speaking in mind to collect cheap political points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54884	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54885	Dear colleague, this is a very important topic. Why is it an important topic? We're still living in the system, we're coming out of a system that has annulled legal private property, and that's the core of all our problems, and that's also the problem of Agrokor and that's the problem of decommunisation. Just one more of those topics. The paper puts up with everything. This sounded wonderful what you read, but I said yesterday you had lies, bigger lies statistics. What happened between the transfer from social property to private property? Total chaos. We have total chaos in the field and we have lawlessness, legal violence and violence against individuals, on real people. People come here every day where people attribute their particles. That's scary! Today, six people came to me on the subject. People build on other people's land, taken away, confiscated land, on family land is done. These were killed, people were making some oligarchs, hotels were buying that were built on estranged land, confiscated land. I'd just mention that it was taken away by German... 11, $11 billion in current value of land mostly in Luxembourg. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the state of Ontario could make a register, digitize 51 million land particles in 11, 12 years why can't we do that? And why are they still doing this legal chaos? And who will come to you again in that country where 5%, 6% of land books are arranged, and a catastrus from Austria-Hungarian etc. You have a simple system, you have your particle, you get a PIN who's in the bank, and that's yours. No one can steal that from you. It's a simple system. And we still don't have a system 22 years after the Homeland War. If you can't do it, get people out there, they'll show you how to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54886	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54887	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with you and your presentation, but I have three questions for you. What do you think should be recognised if the right of ownership of those who are more than 20 years in peaceful possession and so far this property has been held as property of the Republic of Croatia. The second thing you think is to shorten the registration procedures in a way that uses a cadastral elaborat by, certified by the DGU as a basis for correcting the enrolment. And the third thing that you think is whether, that building land that is by PPU municipalities and cities is recognised for permanent ownership in favour of units of local administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54888	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives is the esteemed Stjepan Curaj. He's losing his right to speak. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, distinguished representative Boris Milosevic. And I'm sorry, he's losing his right to speak. We'll continue the debate. The individual debate was attended by a distinguished representative of Gordan Maras, who is missing, who is losing his right to debate. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when you get the terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54890	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on land books, second reading, P.Z. No. 156, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 113 votes for and 3 against have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54891	The next item is: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 207 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in accordance with the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the proposing representatives like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54892	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual protection of classified data with the final proposal for a law. The constitutional basis for the adoption of a contract law between the Government of the Republic of Romania on the mutual protection of classified data is contained in the provision of Article 140(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This law confirms a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual protection of classified data. The government of the Republic of Romania and the government signed a mutual protection agreement on 12 June 2017 in Zagreb. The Treaty establishes a legal framework for ensuring the protection of classified data which are common to or exchanged between the Contracting Parties. An equivalent degree of secrecy, an obligation relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, shall be established by the competent authorities for the implementation of this contract, the mechanisms for the transmission of classified data as well as the handling of classified data. Specific provisions on classified contracts are contained, the way in which visits are made, the handling of security violations and the issue of costs incurred in the implementation of this contract. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54893	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj reported, is missing, losing his right to debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54894	We move to the next point, that is: - Final proposal of the Law establishing a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 207 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry, they're telling me it's over now. No, they're telling me there's no sign-up on that wheel, so then I'm closing the debate and we're going to the next point, and that's: The final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Romania on the mutual protection of classified data, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, number 207, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Romania, the debate is concluded. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Romania and the Government of Romania on the mutual protection of classified data. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous, with 116 votes to pass the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54896	The next item is: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 207 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in accordance with the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the proposing representatives like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54897	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual protection of classified data with the final proposal for a law. The constitutional basis for the adoption of a contract law between the Government of the Republic of Romania on the mutual protection of classified data is contained in the provision of Article 140(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This law confirms a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual protection of classified data. The government of the Republic of Romania and the government signed a mutual protection agreement on 12 June 2017 in Zagreb. The Treaty establishes a legal framework for ensuring the protection of classified data which are common to or exchanged between the Contracting Parties. An equivalent degree of secrecy, an obligation relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, shall be established by the competent authorities for the implementation of this contract, the mechanisms for the transmission of classified data as well as the handling of classified data. Specific provisions on classified contracts are contained, the way in which visits are made, the handling of security violations and the issue of costs incurred in the implementation of this contract. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54898	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj reported, is missing, losing his right to debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54899	We move to the next point, that is: - Final proposal of the Law establishing a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 207 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry, they're telling me it's over now. No, they're telling me there's no sign-up on that wheel, so then I'm closing the debate and we're going to the next point, and that's: The final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Romania on the mutual protection of classified data, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, number 207, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Romania, the debate is concluded. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Romania and the Government of Romania on the mutual protection of classified data. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous, with 116 votes to pass the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54902	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much for the opportunity to lay the foundation of Article 45. The Courts Act reports on the work of the judicial authority for 2015 and 2016. It is a bit absurd to do so at the end of 2017, especially in 2015, but I will try through the 2016 report on comparative data for both years, so I hope you will be able to see the work of the courts for both years, with this report of course very extensively and that neither space nor time allow me to present all the elements of this report, but that is what I have already said adopted on the basis of Article 45. The law on courts ordering the President of the Supreme Court to draw up and present once a year a report to this High House on the work of the judicial authority. The data contained here in this report for both 2015 and 2016 consists of data collected by the Supreme Court, data provided to the Supreme Court by the State Judicial Council, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the judicial academy, all high secondary courts, as well as special jumping courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb. I consider it necessary to say what is the fundamental role of the judicial authority, so first of all, to ensure that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have equal access to the court, equality in the provision of legal protection, the independence of the judicial authority from the other two state authorities, to prevent illicit influences on the work of the judicial authority both in individual cases and in general in the organisation of the judicial authority, to decide on the responsibility of the judicial authorities themselves and its holders in relation to the conduct of the judicial duties, to ensure professional management of the courts, to be used in modern technologies as much as possible and also to think that, and I do not think that this report should seriously consider some incentive measures for the work of judges because the progress made over the past 10 years is more or less based on the enthusiasm of judges. And on their enhanced work so that we have come to the situation in which we are today, which is certainly much better than it was ten years ago and it would be necessary in cooperation with all the participants involved in creating regulations or even a framework for the work of courts to find the best solutions for the problems that are still emerging. I think it is also very important to complete the constitutional positioning procedure of the Supreme Court in a way that the Supreme Court is positioned as prescribed by the Constitution, so as a court which marks judicial practice. He can't do it now. In the criminal branch of the trial, because it appears as a court of appeal and in the civil branch of the court for a very liberal, almost completely free access to the Supreme Court in the civil court and that simply makes it impossible for the Supreme Court to decide in principle matters. When it comes to what happened in 2015, 2016 on the organisational plan, we can say that there are two stages in the work of the judicial authority. One is by the end of 2014 and the other is from the end, from the beginning of 2015. This is about reducing the number of courts so that in 2015 the number of courts by 256 was reduced by 77. We are talking about all courts in the Republic of Croatia with only one court being established in 2015, it is the Trade Court in Pazin. There has also been a change of jurisdiction in the second-degree trial in the civil branch of the trial in such a way that, as I would say, there is virtually no more local jurisdiction of the second-degree court in civil matters because the cases are computerised by one algorithm to all courts in the second degree in the Republic of Croatia by trying to evenly deploy those cases, first to dissipate the most burdensome courts, which are courts in large city centres, Split, Osijek, Rijeka and Zagreb, and that judges mostly work equally for the same salary. What happened now and this will be in the 2017 report that some of them, as I would say, are still solving some of the problems in that schedule by taking into account the total burdens of the courts and not the moment when it started and this is in January 2016. In all, the so-called so-called "Courtesy" was introduced to all courts. The e-script in different forms, but today only the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is not included in the e-File and is intensively working on this, so that by mid next year and the Supreme Court will be included in the e-script, which means that all judicial proceedings will be conducted electronically which, on the one hand, contributes to the transparency of courts, on the other hand, facilitates largely the management of courts in relation to cases with which we will have to do some analysis of these effects. What remains, therefore, the reduction in the number of courts in nature did not occur in relation to the organisational units because 126 permanent services were still left. So the courts that were abolished became permanent services of the basics, the courts themselves. And that's one situation that is very limited by the orderly work of courts and the organisation of courts and increases costs. And if enough funds are found for this, I think that the sooner the courts and the permanent services are to be united into one institution, with this increasing the costs of the courts, will increase the costs of the court's travel expenses, court officials, tenants, will increase the costs of the parties, which may be reduced by certain measures of the court days, but in any case, the reduction of the number of courts draws behind them and certain, certain financial efforts. When we talk about that fundamental work of courts at all, then it should be said that the total number of pending cases is reduced in 2016 by 512 thousand 872 cases to 467 thousand 693 cases. So the number, and in criminal terms, only in the Supreme Court has increased the number of cases solved by 64%. So other than the increase in the number of cases solved, so according to the system of connected vessels, the number of pending cases decreased, the number of judges also decreased. So in 2015 there were 1879 judges, in 2016. In 1830, I think of all the branches of the trial and in 2017 that number was further reduced by some hundred judges. So the general trend is to reduce the number of objects. I don't want to repeat it now, but I have to mention that before 2005, when we started our efforts to join the EU, the number of pending cases in courts was over a million-and-a-half. When we talk about the items received, then we will see that in 2015 657 thousand 920 new cases were received in a population of just under 4.5 million people and that in 2016 651, 1116 cases were received, so slightly less than in 2015 and that the number of cases solved was higher with a smaller number of judges. Comparing the structure of the case in 2015 and 2016 the structure of the case is mostly the same, so in terms of pending cases about 60%, 60 or 61% of the cases are civil objects, the commercial cases are about 12%, the criminal cases are about 7% or 8% and the infringements are about 17% and that is, the relationship was almost mirrored for 20115 and 2016. In respect of newly admitted cases, it is also, these relations are almost identical, so 54% of civil cases, 25 and 265 infringements, etc. were received in 2015 and 2016, respectively. So here we see that this one trend of the most, the kind of objects that come to the courts is angle. The same, and of course and thus the relationship of the type of objects, solved objects and their structure is almost identical in both years. According to the state of 2015 and 2016, 8458 persons were employed in courts at the end of 2016, counting judges, court officials and tenants. So that the number of employees in the courts in general was reduced compared to 2015. I already told the judges 1879 to 1830, the court advisors increased a few numbers from 630 to 650, but the number of employees was reduced from 620 to 590. In 2016, there are no newly admitted judges in the judicial systems. It was also the appointment of judges, but there were no persons outside the judicial authority who would have been appointed, so it was only the appointments through the progress of the judges, and 30 judges were resolved in 2015 and 30 judges in 2016. 49 judges. Mostly, because of the memory of, uh, the terms of retirement. Compared to the age structure of judges, almost 60% of judges are between 45 and 65. So it could be said that at this point, we do not have inexperienced judges in the Republic of Croatia. So, angle. Judges who are now on trial at all levels have enough judicial experience for dealings with judicial duties. And it may also be time to consider in some way changing the conditions for the progress of judges, to make these conditions more stringent to a certain extent, that is, to demand years of judicial internships or even an internship in the judiciary for appointment to several courts. But, at the same time, to intervene in the salaries of judges, above all, the salaries of judges of first degree courts, which I believe should be evened out. Namely, first-degree judges, regardless of whether they work, as judges of a administrative court, a commercial court or general courts, do the same work. And they're essentially working on the same problems and they're using the same procedural regulations and I think we should even it out. In this way, even perhaps the pressure of normal pressure and the desire of judges to progress would be reduced. In fact, there are a lot of countries that, through the system of wages, encourage the stay of courts, precisely because these long experience judges bring some security, bring a sense of stability, and in that case, in one atmosphere of security and for both parties and for younger colleagues. In the structure schedules of judges according to the courts, in civil cases, of course, since the largest number of cases in courts in civil society, 50% of judges are assigned to civil cases, 19% of judges in criminal cases is 20%, trade 8 and management 4. I'll talk about the judge's burden on the number of cases. In 2015 and 2016, relations did not change too much, so that judges would receive, therefore, 185 cases annually in 2015. 180 solved 189, or 185, in civil 391 received, solved 379, solved 431 cases, in administrative matters 285, solved 307, trade received 346 cases, solved 329 and the offenders received about 443 cases and solved 484 cases, that is, these statistics are conducted on the basis of the number of judges who actually work in courts. Because there are a number of judges who are not in the courts, because they have been assigned either to help in the capacity of court advisors to several courts and to the Ministry of Justice where they work as advisers, assistant ministers, etc. As regards the financial situation of the judicial authority between 2015 and 2016, there are no major shifts. So, angle. is the budget there approximately the same, something larger for 2016. a a positive shift was made in court debt, as in 2015 the debts of courts for intellectual services and other claims necessary for the settlement of profits amounted to 10 million 193 thousand 22 kuna, and in this year only 2 million 442 thousand 375.13 kuna. So that's where one positive shift was made. The maximum ratio of spending of the budget allocated to the judicial authority of the corner. It's the same. Therefore, the most costs are borne by staff expenditures, salaries and other staff expenditures, while all others, which amount to nearly a billion kuna, and the total budget of courts is about a billion and 200 million kuna. So the rest of this, from slightly less than billions to billions and 200 million is used for all other needs in courts. What we cannot on the part of the judicial authority see as satisfactory is that part of the means allocated to the education of judges. In fact, the budget is so well-conceived and the obligations of all the beneficiaries of the budget are to keep strict watch that the Law on the implementation of the state budget is not being violated, so that there is no way to overlay funds or savings in one position so that they can be spent on other positions other than within these individual positions, and therefore, it is not possible to allocate any larger resources for the education of judges. Thus, only 9550 kuna was approved in the County Court in Split for 2016, for the County Court in Zagreb 45 thousand kuna, for the County Court in Osijek 3610 kuna and for the County Court in Rijeka 4000 kuna. It is certainly something that is not enough that in these dynamic times changes in the rules and duties of judges to deal with and across, I extend the scope of law rather than national law. And that dictation of European law is growing from day to day. Well, this would also require the possibility for judges to become familiar with liquids, the EU acquis and other supranational courts' case-law to increase these funds. Within the judicial authority, several information systems operate which, there is a distinction for a mistrial and secondly, for all other regular trials, such as an e-registration, then an information system for the management and operation of court cases in criminal courts, a common information system of land books and catasters and registers, court registers and registers of SupraNova. SupraNova is a register of case-law governed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, in which all the Supreme Court rulings are held after anonymous and indexing the key decisions of the courts, other courts, in particular second-degree courts, so that the Court of Appeal is one significant base of case law. He can object to that base and that it is too bulky and that it may sometimes be non-transparent but between the transparency requirement, so that any decision can be found on the Internet and some selection, editorial decision-making when the system is set up, he chose this first value compared to this one. So, as I have already said, these computer systems of court management began to be introduced in 2015 and their introduction except for the Supreme Court was completed in 2016. System information is something that will not stop because the need for new technologies imposes it. Except I'd like to say here that this introduction of a system isn't self-sufficient because maintaining computer systems is very expensive. It is mainly related to the payment of copyright and anyone planning information and who is working on it we will warn on it. And it is necessary to provide quite a lot of resources at the annual level because otherwise these systems become very fast and they become, in a way they do not speed up the management processes but only slow them down. I don't know whether to go to trial or to... All right, as regards the criminal branch of the trial, there has been a reduction in the number of cases with regard to 2015 and 2016, so the inflow of the case is slightly smaller and the number of cases being resolved in criminal cases at all levels is higher except in war crimes cases where the number of pending cases is significantly higher than those in those cases. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The reason is that, in fact, although it is lawfully allowed not to conduct a trial of absentia because, according to the rules of criminal proceedings, as soon as such a defendant appears and the whole procedure is to be conducted from the beginning, and then it is a great waste, an unnecessary waste of time, because all proceedings must start over. So these are the cases that stand and wait for the defendant to become available to the court and, of course, can't work, and that's why the difference between a large number of pending cases, perhaps it would be a way to lead these cases as in one particular record, and in some ways they don't burden the system, although of course we can't, if they won't be statistically shown that we can think that they don't exist, they will be there and they will burden the system and it will be very complex cases, which are actually very complicated and require a lot of work of courts or specialised judges on these cases. With regard to the movement of the case before the county courts in the criminal branch of the trial, we can see that the number of cases received from 2012 to 2016 increased, from, say, 16 900 in 2016 to 23 333, and with that solved almost in 2016 and 2015, the number of cases which were in the inflow, so the backlogs are to a certain extent the rest of the previous years. What is the problem and what is indicated in this report is that the courts are not evenly burdened with the number of cases in the criminal branch of the trial because, especially in the first instance of the trial, it is not possible to reach these measures to distribute the cases because, of course, the hearings and parties have to be held in the civil court, the courts, except exceptionally, do not judge in the public hearing but only in the sittings, and then, of course, it is easier to send to the courts who fall into the jurisdiction of other courts than the situation in the criminal court, so that in this case, we cannot compare some of these measures, but the inequality, the burden of courts in the criminal branch of the trial is evident so that almost 27% of all cases in Zagreb are waste from the County court in Croatia and then followed by Varaz, Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Rijeka, Rijeka, etc. As regards the civil branch of the trial, it of course covers the largest number of cases which Croatian courts are dealing with, and during this period, there has also been an increase in the number of cases resolved in relation to the cases received, with the fact that the civil branch of the trial naturally includes the jurisdiction of several courts. It covers the jurisdiction of municipal courts, county courts, commercial courts, the High Court of Commerce, administrative courts and the High Administrative Court. If we look at the movement of the case only in municipal courts in 2015 and 2016, we will see that 271 252 cases were received in 2015, i.e. 276 657 cases in 2016, and in those years it was solved almost every year for 20 thousand cases more than it was received. With the number of judges in 2016 reduced by 30 judges in municipal courts. So, when we look at jurisdiction towards the re-loading of municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia, we now need to know that we only have 22, so the number of cases may be increased by individual courts precisely because the courts have united several courts in their area. At the Municipal Civil Court, nearly 25 of all civil cases in the Republic of Croatia, at the Municipal Court in Split about 10, the Municipal Court in Rijeka about 8%, Pula 6, etc., etc., at the Municipal Court in Novi Zagreb, only 5% of the cases in the Republic of Zagreb, and the question arises whether this court should have been established for those 5% of the cases at all because on the one hand it increased the burden of the County Court in Velika Gorica, who as a second-degree court in charge of the Municipal Court in Novi Zagreb and he did not withdraw any significant number of cases from the Municipal Court in Zagreb. But since I think that the purpose of courts is to exist because of citizens, where legal protection can be achieved is provided faster and more effectively then perhaps such financial efforts should be done, regardless of whether in an analysis or in comparison between courts there is always this opportunised rational reason for some courts to be established. In 2015, 81 119 were admitted to the county courts in relation to civil cases of the second stage. So let's compare to 260 thousand cases that come to courts, 1/4...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54903	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, the time has expired, so you can proceed every time after the debate has been held, and then you can further explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54904	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54905	We'll do the replicas first, then we'll take the breaks. Let's go in a row. He's my first colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54906	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Sessa, the judiciary, the judges, the judiciary should be the image of justice in every society. The confidence of citizens in the judiciary and the judiciary has been greatly undermined, citizens do not believe in the Croatian judiciary today according to all polls. You are one of the people who opposed the judge's security check while you were president of the Association of Croatian Judges, you strongly opposed it. The initiative of former Minister of Sprlje and MOST to ensure that the judges' security check is guaranteed, not only by jump judges but by all judges, new judges and those who move to a higher level. We see in the recent events surrounding the Agrokor case that it actually turns out that Agrokor case isn't jumping objects. That he's leaving, I think it's for the Zagreb County Court. We see from this case that it is very important, that judges who will be tried in such proceedings do not sit together with politicians, with lawyers, with other coffee reps, because they are reasonably suspected that judgments are made in these places, not where they should be... Let me just ask you, what's your position on the judge's security clearance, are you willing to do it in order to increase trust in the judiciary and the judges in society? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54907	So you can respond every time to a replica, with 2 minutes, here from a place or you can group, when everything is finished, whatever you want. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54908	My position on security checks, Your Honor, my position on security checks has not been changed. The point is, it's not a security check. The essence of the security check, i.e. as set out in the law, is the inability of the one to be checked and to be excluded from any appointment for security purposes, that there is no possibility of an examination of that assessment at all. So, that's an assessment, by the security service and those to express myself to the People's Amen and our Father. We think that since there is a possibility of investing legal medicine even to the Constitutional Court in the process of appointing judges, then such checks should be considered. Because they are not in any way in the hands of the judicial authority. And that's what I was saying as president of the association, since I haven't changed my mind, that's what I'm saying as President of the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54909	Another replica, dear colleague of Sladolev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54910	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Sessar, I have one question, what do you think about the initiative of former Minister of Sprlje and why it is that stopping this initiative about publishing the property cards of the judges, given that citizens in the judiciary's opinion is really thrown and that if we went to Ban Jelačić Square and asked the citizens what they think of our judiciary, do you think that this initiative in the world of new judgments, the last one we had in some way managed to rate our judiciary. Would it contribute to transparency, given that we, as parliamentary representatives and ministers, must perform our own property card. What makes you think that they are in a different position than we are and that you generally think about this initiative and why it stops it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54911	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54912	Dear Mr. Representative, same as before, therefore, as the late Vlado Gotovina said, about the same always the same. I think they're practically public, because anyone can look into the property card and according to the Access Information Act, they'll get it. What our practice has shown is that full insight into the property card and interpreting information about this property card is a problem, because they are misrepresented in public. So, how, I think the system as it is now arranged is quite enough and it is compatible with a lot of EU countries, except for countries that have entered this last 10-nation wave. As far as corruption is concerned, a corporate survey has been carried out in Switzerland and Croatia. In Switzerland, 14% of citizens do not trust the judiciary and in Croatia 70. When the same poll asked people how much they had to do, they personally or someone they knew with corruption in the judiciary, in Switzerland they replied that there were 6% of people, 6% of the answers, and in Croatia 3. So that perception I think is one thing, and that really is the situation quite different, but of course everything can contribute to the perception and the behavior of the judges and I am fully in agreement with you, that there must be criteria and must be for judges absolutely the strictest possible and I've said it before, and I'm saying it and now and I'm always publicly so... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54913	Third replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54914	Mr. Sessa, your court statements, the judges, look so great, I don't know if we live in the same country. Really, I don't know if you're familiar with the fact, you're referring to people's perceptions. That the main brake of the development of the Republic of Croatia is mistrust in the judiciary. 2/3 The Croatian people have no confidence, these are the key things you need to talk about, not the flow of honey and milk. We won't even talk about the inequality of the verdict. Someone is allowed to be in traffic, irrelevantly, whether it was in the sea or, kill two people and be freed, and someone has one percent alcohol that's not allowed, but it's going to end up in prison, well, it's not that level. Many who are unacceptable to people and cannot understand and trust the judges at all. The judge should be protected, i.e. It should be an independent judiciary. But you can't get an unequal judiciary and don't talk about how much we lose. as much in international courts as, e.g. in Strasbourg in court loses Croatia's verdict, a country based on which you judges make simple Croatian economics, human potential does not develop solely because of lack of confidence in the judiciary. That's the first and the most basic thing. And how many items he's been waiting for for years. How many of those who took millions in their pocket just peeled potato judgments. He's been peeling potatoes for a couple of days. It's familiar stuff. It's not made up. Therefore, no honey and milk flow, just go back to reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54915	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54916	I'm being respected, MP, I think, if it were really, really, really, what I said, I certainly don't ignore the question of perception, and also, also, I'd like to take the opportunity here to take advantage of individual judgments that the public didn't accept and these last ones that I don't want to speak of specifically or may be just inadmissible judgments. Therefore, they are neither a caselaw nor an opinion, finally the Court’s view of a part or a phenomenon, and only when they become powerful will we be able to say if now that court has sinned. Therefore, let us not create an atmosphere of final, inability to change what we cannot accept and there should indeed be a little more careful in such statements and especially in all those who in some way create a public change because the negative consequences of such action are far-reaching. So the judgments you're talking about are inadmissible and therefore cannot be in any way any indication of the court's position. Only when they become powerful will they be, then they can be discussed as academic or any level. But as the old Latina said, and by a powerful verdict, black becomes white and white becomes black. And it simply postulates in the rule of law that we must learn about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54917	Thank you. Let's move on. The fourth is a colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54918	Thank you very much. Mr. Sessa, you have just now claimed that the property cards of judges can be obtained at least here in the Assembly, but you did not show your property card when you appointed the Justice Committee. Namely, there is a question in the public that you had a business relationship with Agrokora in 2005 so please, if you can clarify this business relationship to make sure that we do not find you in conflict of interest especially given this legal misunderstanding that we have seen in recent days and that, because today we also have a parliamentary crisis. I think that these property cards should be available because here are the things that would actually help the public regain that trust in institutions and not lose it more and more every day. You also mentioned in your discussion that there should be some effective measures to improve the work of judges. So let's say an effective measure could be a solution for judges who don't make judgments within the time limit. Now, that would be a very effective measure. For example, we have labour disputes in Croatia that must all be ruled within 6 months, which have been being dragged for years and for decades that have not been resolved. Well, I'm sure if it were to introduce a resolution of judges who don't comply with the deadlines, I think all these disputes would be dealt with in a very, very good way to increase the efficiency of the courts. Well, here's your obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54919	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54920	As far as this question is concerned, it's not the subject of this agenda item, so I won't talk about it, otherwise my property card was available on the board, so everyone saw it, so there's no need to discuss it at all. As far as resolution is concerned, the judges, the judges, they're being held in a strict manner, they're being resolved because of what they're doing and what they're doing. It's true, labour legislation is slow. Part of it and because access to courts and seeking courts in determining and protecting the rights of workers is very scrupulous and is trying in every situation not to damage anyone, especially the workers. But the issue of the strict resolution of judges is also the question to what extent, when will be the limit to which the judge will be relieved of his duties because of the non-compliance of his duties, certainly one or two cases cannot be the reason. But I certainly agree that labour legislation, or the working part of the judiciary, requires serious reform in order to speed up the work on these cases. I want to warn you that speed isn't always quality. Because at the rate we may lose all those rights either workers or employers will lose all those procedural rights that they now have because each other doesn't always go in parallel.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54921	The 5th replica of a respected colleague, Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54922	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Sessa, as we can see from 2008 to 2016, the number of courts with 256 n 77 has been reduced, which is very rational. However, I am interested in whether this financial reality has also been achieved in this regard. Since we see that in 2011, we have fewer judges, you mentioned that, so almost 100 judges are less than in 2011 and the number of cases has been reduced from 512 thousand to 467 thousand, however, there are no cases of land library and court register. So when we see the burden on the judge here in statistics it says that it's over 636 cases in the period from 2011 to 2016, it's a considerable burden on that number of judges. So is there a possibility that more judges might still be hired to avoid actually being so burdensome and that the number of cases and solved cases is as high as possible, given that in some branches we see that, that certain cases are old, 30% of the cases are older than 3 years old, which still worries about age?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54923	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54924	Thank you. I think that and deeply I think that the interest of the Croatian state and the judicial authorities is not to increase the number of judges. I think it's our interest to reduce the number of judges and if what the judges wouldn't do, they shouldn't work in courts or waste their time doing someone else's. So, court counselors and court officials. This reduction of judges has led to a reduction in the number of courts, whether it has led to some major financial breakthroughs. I can't answer that because no analysis has been done yet. There are certainly even some grades. However, they are so empirical, they did not ultimately implement that it could lead to increased costs of courts due to travel costs, the transfer of judges, the travel of judges, the accommodation of judges outside the place of residence, etc. However, if we have already reached that level to reduce the number of courts to 77, perhaps some courts that may not have their rational purpose in the area of municipal courts might be reconsidered, but they have, in view of their position, these are primarily island courts, perhaps some courts where bad communication are, say, Slavonski Brod, Požega, etc. So there may be a place to do something, but I essentially think that the trend of reducing the number of judges in Croatia is actually positive, and that, not being second to the number of judges in Europe, although this is not taking into account jurisdiction and not taking into account, be careful, there are always some countries that cannot be compared according to legal systems. But I would love to see the number of judges shrink, because then their work would be more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54925	Thank you very much. Replication to exposure, Mr. Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54926	Thank you. Here is the President-in-Office of the Supreme Court, I would like to point out one problem that is present in Istria County, with regard to the difficult functioning of the judicial authorities in relation to the fact that all the judicial authorities in Istria have headquarters in Pula, while in other cities there are only permanent services, all of which leads to the creation of additional costs for both the parties and the state budget. Because the Registrar's Rules of Procedure is prescribed to be held in the seat of the court itself, so it often happens that both the on-call judge and the officer and the party and the defenders and the authorised prosecutors are traveling to Pula, although some of the permanent services are far closer to them. So I would kindly ask your opinion on the above issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54927	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54928	Thank you very much. Well, here's the part I might have answered in the previous answer. Certainly an analysis of certain judicial areas in this regard is needed although, and I will now say, this goes to the expense of judges and presidents of the courts. I think it should be more open to court days. So, the situation in which a judge from one court goes to another place and conducts what he has to, so a court hearing, and that's actually a drug on which the court approaches citizens, and not that and that it's possible to do that, that the costs there are much less. That used to be done a long time ago. When I was a young judge, it was a regular phenomenon, and I think it's one of the solutions. And where these measures cannot achieve access, the right to access the parties' courts to just approach the establishment of courts there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54929	Thank you very much. The last replica, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54930	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. So here you are talking about technical problems, the problems of the judiciary, the problems of the courts that are badly set up and some other things that point to a pretty big problem in the judiciary. There is one definition of the judiciary, legislation in Croatia that says that we have the judiciary as a spider's web, it is caught by tiny flies, and through it the beetles fly. The proof of this is also the other day of the show Open, which was attended by Judge Turudici and lawyer Nobilo, who talked about major affairs. One of the affairs is the Spice affair and former Minister Polancec, who has 40,000 pages of the file, which lasts some 90 years and is estimated to be over at 12 or 13 years. So then there's the Agrokor affair, which has 100,000 pages of the file, and the assessment that such a process should take about 20 years. I think it's scary and it says enough where the Republic of Croatia is, what's going on here and that really those little flies that for a hundred kunas, even that bear dog was very quickly convicted, even though no one had yet translated what he was barking about. That lady maid ended up in jail for some change, and these bumblebees don't even feel that net they fly through. I'm interested in when the judiciary will be truly independent, when it will be effective, for everything equally for the maids and for the Bear and for the great affairs and when it will end this policy influence on the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54931	Thank you very much. Otherwise, the bumblebees are residents of Vodnjan, so there wouldn't be an agreement on what you were saying, a misunderstanding. It's a typical name of the people of Vodnjana bumber, so there's no misunderstanding. Mr. Sessa, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54932	Thank you very much. So, I think this question that you asked is a question that would be better asked by a state attorney. So, the state's attorney takes the case to court, he decides on its scope, and then judges with what he's brought a state's attorney dealing in court. Therefore, the case of Spice, the case of Agrokor, if it comes to a court, etc., is primarily the decision of a state lawyer in which such a case will be brought. It is also a matter of some state-owned legal tactics to which they wish to capitulate the court with one or more cases. Yesterday there was a conference gathering at the Westin Hotel and there the state's attorney agreed and everyone agreed that the jurisdiction of jumpers from the state's attorney's offices should be narrowed down to several acts and that they should not have more than twenty cases a year. So that's how you can secure it. And the comparisons between these and those cases are not quite appropriate it cannot be compared to one of the cases in which it was done in trade and taking over a company with some simple object and to conclude, the dog is not meant to be, but is a tried person who has allowed the dog to bark so much and bother the neighbors. So that's what happened in that case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54933	Thank you very much. Would anyone like to take a word for the board? Mr. Orsat Milenić is not here. Okay. State Secretary at the Department of Justice? There's no need. I'm opening a debate. First there goes the club debate, Mr. Milorad Pupovac in front of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54935	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court. According to everything that comes to us to use an expression that has been very relevant in recent months about this crisis, which today is dedicated to this debate in the Parliament of good. will the Croatian judiciary is not particularly high-quote. It's either a good voice or a good reputation. And that doesn't mean that it fits the facts as well as in the economy doesn't necessarily mean that it fits the situation of things with facts like it doesn't have to mean in politics either, but it certainly is some starting point. The first report is exhausted and brings some indicators that were better than in 2016 than in 2015 as regards the number, the reduction in the number of cases, and in some other indicators. Overall, therefore, during the period during which reforms were carried out both at the time of accession of the European Union and after the accession of the European Union, certain reform measures have been taken which have resulted in some progress during a certain period but after that, we have also noticed some forms of stagnation. The reforms regarding the number of courts were extensive, they were long-prepared, they were long-running and they were dragonous. The number of courts has been radically reduced. There are some judicial services left in different places where there were courts that now allow citizens a slightly more favourable approach to courts than it would otherwise be the case for someone from Lower Lapce to travel to Zadar, for example, or Gospić. However, we have seen that in some cases such as the County of Istria, according to the 2015 report, this thing brings some difficulties and requires a certain revolution, which means that it is seen whether such a single dragon reduction was best in all cases. And I'd love to, if you could, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, say a few words about what the Supreme Court's present opinion is about that, too. I remember the enthusiasm of the State Judicial Council with which we performed when it was the reorganization and the way of elections in the State Judicial Council, especially us who made up the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the EU which we had active participation in the whole process. There's not much left of that enthusiasm today. The judicial academy also represented a new and very important thing for improving professionalism, improving the modernisation, knowledge and knowledge of judges and lifelong education. We can see, however, that this does not bring the necessary results to the extent that we expected it to be. It is absolutely certain that certain procedures for the evaluation of the work of the courts, judges, have been improved in the period before 2010, that surveillance has been improved but continue to be promoted due to influences that have nothing to do with the evaluation or supervision as can be seen in the case of elections under way for a court or for a judicial institution here in Zagreb. In this respect, it seems to me that it is extremely important that, once again, not only the Supreme Court, but the judicial authority in general should focus on the assessment of the extent to which the reforms undertaken by 2010, 2011 and where these results have become weaker at some point, i.e. become lost. The reduction in the number of cases compared to nearly 2 million in 2004 when I remember that we have started communication processes with the European Parliament and with colleagues from the EU, which is, of course, a significant progress up to 500 000 not full as far as we now have. But that's still a big number of 500 grand. The length of the proceedings is also still extremely large in some groups of cases. The appearance of some others, the increase in some other cases such as the 2016 performance, whose percentage is on the rise, is an important indicator of the dynamics of legal cases that appear in our society and are extremely relevant to us as advocates only because of citizens and their material status, but at the same time both the economy and its situation. The issue of efficiency in doing so, the issue of justice in doing so is also extremely relevant. In 2016, out-of-court proceedings have not progressed and could. And they'd probably reduce the number of pending cases in general, in some areas of the judiciary they are, but most of them they're not. You touched the question, indirectly touched the question of the relationship between the Supreme Court and other matters, above all, the Constitutional Court. Indirectly, I may be misreading it, but the powers of the Supreme Court rarely come into conflict with the powers conferred upon themselves by the Constitutional Court. And we really think that the Supreme Court should strengthen its powers as a Supreme Court when it comes to overseeing court practice in the country and overseeing the exercise of lawfulness when the courts themselves are. In this regard, too, and above all, his Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure could at some point organise a thematic debate when it comes to such a topic. It is not good when there is a conflict between institutions in the state or when there is a takeover of powers from a part of an institution from another institution, and in this case it has happened at earlier periods. I hope this doesn't happen during this period. As far as the perception of the citizens I'm going with, of course, it doesn't have to be reality itself, but it is an extremely important and extremely significant indicator. And in this respect, the research carried out in 2016 by independent institutions as regards the perception of citizens is even more interesting that the perception of the employees themselves is in the courts, and it is not good. So that's about what my colleague Bunjac says, our citizens think of the Parliament pretty badly. Which would only be if we started talking. Now, if employees of courts in judicial institutions have a more critical view than citizens in a whole series of issues, then it is indeed a serious and significant problem. Therefore, they do not complain about information, they do not complain about pay, the key issues they are complaining about, the key issues they note, which they consider to be the main culprits for violating the effectiveness of the judicial system are the following, and so are we, the frequent amendments to the law and frequent amendments to the legislative frameworks. The frequent changes in the legislative frameworks actually contribute to legal instability and legal disorder. We, too, would have to imagine in the House together with the Government whether it was something that was good and what it was for. Secondly, it is interesting that one of the main problems with the perception of employees in courts is the influence of politics and corruption. Therefore, by means of political power and influence, by means of financial or monetary power. If that's what the employees themselves see, then it's extremely worrying. The third element is, of course, the fact that in courts, employees think that citizens tend to be litigators and expectations of courts of what is unreal is also one of the reasons that makes the judiciary insufficiently efficient. What to do in this respect and how to create a different culture is a serious question for all of us and then, of course, for the citizens. The issue of media and how media are infiltrated in judicial proceedings and in judicial matters and in judicial cases is an additional burden that judges see as a problem, i.e. court employees see as a problem. And that in certain cases reporting to the media has certainly not helped in any way by employees of the courts or judges themselves. So as many as 64% of judicial employees say that an obstacle is more effective in the operation of the corruption system, as much as 64%. Of course, some cases that are known to the public strengthen such impressions and those who are recent and those who are less recent. What to do to change this, to change the fact that without a stable, independent, professional judiciary cannot be guaranteed and guaranteed the achievement of fundamental constitutional values such as the rule of law, such as equality and as equality, and we are faced with that fact that people think that judicial authority is unable to guarantee these three fundamental constitutional values, nor the rule of law, nor equality, nor equality in different areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54936	Thank you very much, thank you, Mr. Pupovac. Time's up. You have 3 replicas, however. Time's up, you have three replicas. [[What am I going to do with them?]] First Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54937	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pupovac, therefore you are absolutely right, unfortunately the reputation of the legislative body in public is not very high. Equally, the reputation of the judgmental authority is not high. This contributes to a lot of factors but our duty is here, we have received here a report on the work of the Supreme Court and it is our duty to warn about those points of that report that directly concern the lives of citizens. In fact, it is happening and will happen that citizens will still be given the tasks that are old, the executive procedures that are 10 to 15 years old. Why is that happening? 15 years ago, when we joined the EU, we miraculously showed that we had solved over 500 thousand cases, only to show that statistics were good. That information can't even be seen in this report. These are data on the number of pending cases which have been archived as executive objects. Because the moment they came to court, when the seal was struck, that the object was received, that the seal on the solution of the execution was thought to have been completed. And it was only then that he started. And these are all the executives in our courts. This happened at the time of Minister Vesna Škara Ozbolt when those 500 thousand appeared as solved items. Now we have two problems, judges need to solve these cases when an executive appears, but they're not motivated to solve these cases because they don't get into theirs to say score. And on the other hand, we have citizens who are going to be faced with, who are otherwise in a difficult situation and who are going to be faced with these objects and who are 15 years old. And that's the problem this report isn't talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54938	Thank you very much. Mr. Pupovec's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54939	Dear colleague Žagar, colleague Shuker mentioned creative accounting in some companies, globally, and you are now paying attention to creative bookkeeping on judicial cases with us. Yeah, we know that's what it was, but it's not helping. It seriously disrupts what's called a goodwill or a reputation or a good voice. And it doesn't help citizens, and it doesn't help establish the rule of law and the rule of law. The examples you make of these are just some of them, there are more of them. But about that, if we did some deep analysis, if we used another term that wasn't reserved just for this topic, it would certainly show that the thresholds or the rest of it still exist. Whether in this one or in another court, it's hard to say, but there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54940	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54941	Here, you're a respected fellow Pupovac in his debate several times touched the perceptions of the judiciary in public, which you said, I'll tell myself later, the least I can say is that it's not good. I believe that we should speak clearly about this, but also, our duty and obligation, in which way we can and by what measures help the judicial system, tomorrow, to be more effective, more efficient and better. So I'd like to point out one fact, that in fact for too long a number of years, we're not introducing new young people into our judicial system through court drills, but that's also true of the State's Attorney's Office. It produces several negative consequences, and above all it makes it impossible for young people to start developing their capacities, their careers, but it also prevents new young people from coming, so I'm going to let myself tell myself, not burdened people in the justice system. If we were to allow young people to get a job at the annual level, I think there's... We can talk about the number of 50 to 60 new employees, however, I do not want to say that it is for each year, but that it is one process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if that were one of those measures, where we should be in this House too, keeping accounts and concerns, thus allowing the normal and uninterrupted functioning of the judicial authority in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54942	Replication response, Mr. Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54943	I thank my colleague for your replica. It is a pity that the number of court advisers and according to a report which can be seen both in 2015 and 2016 in the total number of courts. It's a shame that the indicators that speak of age structure are also unfavourable. It is also a pity that there is another indicator, another indicator, which is favourable to what we call gender representation in judicial institutions, which become mainly female professions, but also has another adverse side of it, has the opposite. And that's that women go there because it's a less paid job. It wasn't like that once. And that's another reason why the judiciary is in a state where it is. The state is not helping him to the extent necessary. The fact that the State's Attorney's Office is now receiving donations from other countries, in order to have the information equipment it needs, is good if it's some kind of software, but it's getting hardware for it. And if we weren't able to provide the means for it, not even an adequate prosthetic, it's something that can't be good. I agree with you, we have contributed to this perception being weak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54944	Thank you. Three replicas and one last, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54945	Thank you, well-respected Pupovac, in your presentation of the results of an official survey conducted by independent bodies, an international one, which finally accepted only the Ministry of Justice in which you presented a shocking data, which is that the employees in the judiciary have an even worse view of their work than the citizens. And that they believe in more than a percentage of citizens that politics affects courts and that the judiciary is corrupt. And that's really amazing, because you would actually expect these people to at least defend their profession in principle and they're even more critical. This shows two very interesting things, one of these, namely, that the vast majority of judges are on the same side as the citizens. So they're on the same side, and the problem, therefore, is obviously in a minority of judges, which, and we could say, is exactly the minority that makes decisions and is in the most responsible positions. And on the other side of the bed, the question is, how are they even more critical? So we see very simply from this research that you have stated, namely, they see these cases with their own eyes every day, they hear about them, and what is worst of all, they are personally offered this. So the first thing, they are personally offered bribes and what benefits, and on the other hand, political pressure is personally exerted on them. And that's what's worst of all. So the judges, that poll that was therefore independent, and the secret sent us a very strong appeal, not to say cry out to do something, to sort out the situation in the judiciary. And it is indeed someone would have to finally take very seriously into their consciousness and take some reforms that will dare to say not only concrete but also very extensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54946	Thank you, too. Mr. Pupovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, that these studies show that moral awareness among most who have been surveyed is particularly high in law enforcement. Because they actually contribute to their own criticism of their own profession to make it come to mind and contribute to defending it from the influences that violate independence, on the one hand, professionalism and in many elements, then constitutionality. And that's an extremely significant indicator. The second question now is what will be done by the legislator, what will be done by the Supreme Court within its powers and what can the Supreme Court do within its powers, above all, with reports and above all by evaluations and revaluations. But it is quite certain and of course what other state institutions will do, other state bodies that should determine where and when things that are inadmissible happen, which, according to perception, and most of the employees in judicial institutions, are recognised as deviating. I didn't say syncope. I said deviation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54948	Thank you very much. And now we open the debate and Mr. Bunjac on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54950	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Sessa, dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about the state of the judicial authority for 2015 and 2016 and, in general, at the introduction, we can all believe that the most important question is citizens, the most complaints, the most messages we received were addressed to the situation in the judiciary, and we also see this from the work of the official bodies, as is the case. The Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals of Citizens, or let's say that report we discussed yesterday by the Ombudsman, means the judiciary is obviously problem number one in the Republic of Croatia. And we would almost dare say that if this situation were to be well, if the situation in the judiciary had been settled, that we would practically solve half of the problems in the Republic of Croatia. As already mentioned here, the poor situation in the judiciary is also confirmed by official polls that those employed by individual agencies, such as those made by international institutions and even by the Ministry of Justice, and we have seen that a very poor assessment of the judiciary is given not only by citizens but by even more by the employees of the judicial authorities themselves. The information that maybe we should point out right now at the end of it all, and we haven't heard it from a colleague of the Pupovac is that 25% of the employees in the judiciary are looking for another job and it would be very happy to find it. So they actually want to get out of that system because they just don't feel good in it. What's the main culprit for such a bad condition? Well, as we've heard, one of the first is the longevity of court proceedings most citizens consider a major problem. It is interesting to point out that Croatia is second in the number of judges in Europe, according to the population, and by the percentage of investment in Europe the fourth. So by that we're very good, but by the number of unsolved objects we're just the bottom. We, for example. We have up to 45 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, and we need 386 days on average for a first-degree decision while Denmark has 6 judges, England has 3 judges, France 5 judges per 100,000 inhabitants and for first-degree rulings they need a few dozen days. So after practically a few weeks, you have first-degree decisions. Here I would like to point out that according to the settled practice of the European Court of Human Rights, any trial, any trial that lasts 5 years constitutes a violation of human rights. So this is about human rights violations and we're almost witnessing today that there's no trial that lasts less than five years. So here you're breaking some kind of elemental civility. And we have in Croatia hundreds of thousands of objects that last for more than 10 years, tens of thousands of objects that last for more than 20 years, and this is such a terrible situation that in fact this criterion should have been seen as a criterion when entering the EU Croatia in no way should it have been admitted into that international organisation. Here I am personally, seeing that here is my colleague from Medjugorje Topolko, here we are in Međimurje, just today a conviction for murder has been passed, watch out for murder, first-degree verdict after seven years. Do we really have to see such things daily that such injustice exists in Croatian society? So we have briefly said judges on export and the results of the judiciary are nothing. Another problem that is highlighted is the impact of policy on courts and there is therefore the problem that the State Judiciary Council is elected either by political or by an interesting similarity and the same policy is implemented on lower levels, so judges are not judges, at least they are in positions, but political commissioners are mostly from the HDZ ranks. The judiciary, as we could see, is helping to insist on the parliamentary majority this year and members of the ruling parties are never convicted. So I don't want to talk about it again now, but enough to mention the cases of Ivo Sanader, Nadan Vidosevic, Cobankovic, Ferenček, Bandic, Mamic, Vrdoljak, Sauche and others. Well, then maybe we have a symbolic picture of all of that county court president who's in Opatija having dinner with Eve Sanader and running a trial against him. So that's just one little figure that everything in Croatia can happen. Or do we have the case of Saša Radovic's whistler against former Cermak's general who was not allowed to represent the defence, or his defense is limited to 1 minute, beware he had the right to present his defense in 1 minute without a court record and then he who accused him of smuggling oil into the former Republika Srpska province that he had never paid taxes to the state and he was sentenced to 2 years in prison. He who has been decorated by the honorable Croatian army and has been decorated four times. Well, that's justice for you, then, in the Republic of Croatia. It is also a well-known case of Ankica Lepej, who in her time exposed corruption at the top of the state, being persecuted by judicial authorities even today. Here's another eclectic example of the court's situation. We also have cases that policy requires courts to pass judgments against damages to the Republic of Croatia, especially when damages are sought from the state budget. I remind you of that privatisation fund case for coupon privatisation when they got the verdict. And at the time when compensation was due to them, the Supreme Court abolished the verdict and just illegally returned it to lower facts. And now you tell me, Mr. Sessa, who runs the Supreme Court, do you think in such a way that any more common sense in Croatia will invest anything? Will anyone who has money come to Croatia and when he sees your actions like this say that here is good I will invest, so of course he won't, so he's not crazy, so he won't invest one lip because he knows he's throwing his money into the sea a lot of sharks and he'll never see him again. Moreover, he himself will probably end up still in prison like Mr. Radovic just because he dared seek some kind of justice. Also, the big problem is the costs of court proceedings, the same two-thirds of Croatian citizens consider it a problem. And the main cause of ineffective and invaluable justice and long-term proceedings is barrage tariffs. So the legal fees are 100% times as much as the judge's, imagine that, they're 100 times more than the judge's, and for that reason, the court's work is hardly discriminated against and those judges who can escape into law practice. However, it is very important to say that among lawyers only once again one very small group of them is reserved to buy creams, to take money, and 40% of lawyers actually do not have enough even for so-called. Cold drive. The problem is, it's 1994. The Law on Attorneyship determines the level of tariffs to transfer the state to the bar and the abuse of powers arises. Since lawyers have set their own tariffs, and since 1994, they have illegally paid several tens of billions of kunas, tens of them, while some claim hundreds of billions of kunas. Where did that money end, can we know? We can't. Why? Because the judge's property cards can't be seen. And secret accounts, custody bills, even less. In custody accounts in Croatia, 76 billion kuna. Who owns that 76 billion kuna? Is it Mr. Bull, or is it me? Maybe I have that kind of money. And someone does. And who's that? Maybe they're lawyers, maybe. Here we see that there are lawyers in Croatia who buy themselves five newspapers, so whatever newspaper you open the property of a lawyer. It can be free, morning, globe, I don't know, always... Same lawyer on the front page. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, who owns Croatia, who is the true master? Well, gentlemen, lawyers and, of course, judges, but only the ones on top. Here's to briefly illustrate the situation in the Croatian judiciary with the legal tariffs. If the value of the dispute in Croatia is 2,000 euros, the legal tariff is 2,300 euros, do you know how much is in Germany? 300 euros. And so it can happen that lawyers for one court date for half an hour earning 100,000 kuna. For hours' work, 100,000 kuna. If it's a big dispute, why not? And what's even worse is every time they show up at the hearing. In Germany, the fee is obtained regardless of how many hearings there are, and in Croatia the fee is obtained per hearing. And is it reasonable, then, to suspect that judges and lawyers are united against their clients on an agreed basis for interest? We also heard that corruption is a big problem, that judges themselves claim it's a big problem, 70% of judges claim to know about corruption. So how come no one has ever been convicted of this corruption in the judiciary before today? How is that possible? People are being tried, I don't know, dog barks, woman begs, two graphites on the wall are being tried, and that 70% is corrupt and nothing is happening to anyone. The SOA Secret Service, in July this year, announces publicly that 20 judges in Croatia, high judges, are corrupt and that they pose a threat to national security. And what did he do? No, in July 2016, I apologize. A year and a half ago. And what has he done so far? What kind of judges are these? Please, Mr. Sessa, do you know which 20 judges are in the SOA report? What have you done against them? Have you heard from the director of SOA, Mr. Markic? How is it possible for us MPs not only to have to publish a property card, but we can be removed from immunity, and you can't look at the judge's immunity, and you can't see his property card, nor can you relieve him of his duties, impossible. He can judge until the day of judgment but you can't get to your justice. And this is therefore a very sad situation that has caused Croatian citizens to no longer speak to the courts at all. They know that in courts, they're just gonna spend an endless amount of time, so we're free to say our whole lives. A lot, a lot of money to spend, tens and tens of thousands of kunas, and eventually they won't get any justice. Nothing. And that's even those lawyers and judges who are honest people actually say the right person, here I was talking to a lawyer, so I asked him about the problem I have about what a bank cheated on me, he said look, I can promise you things now, and we'll judge you, you'll have so many and so many hearings, and in the end you won't achieve anything. That's what he told me before we even started. Isn't that terrible? You're right, you're right, and what you can do, nothing. So it turns out that, as in the Middle Ages, we have to get our fingers and swords taken, we have to challenge people to a duel to achieve some kind of justice over some question. In conclusion, the Croatian judiciary is the cancer of the early Croatian society. If the situation cleared up, not only would confidence be restored to the institutions, but investment and increased, GDP would increase, tax revenues would increase, emigration would be reduced, huge progress in democracy as a political system in general would be achieved, social conflicts would be reduced, particularly the increase in extremism and violence that we witnessed almost daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54951	Thank you, too. You have one replica from Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54952	Comrade Bunjac, you mentioned the property card of the judges, it seems to me that in the replica of Mr. Sessa, you told me that it would be good so that his property card, we have to present to us parliamentary representatives, from our husbands, children, all members, I don't see any reason Mr. Sessa, that you are ahead of me or any of us or any citizen without publishing it. This is whether you sold the land to Ivica Todorovic, the house, the apartment, it is not a problem for either you or us, which you should be ashamed of, if you are or if you are not. So what's the problem with judges who judge small people taking their heads off, while rich people who robbed this country, who do what you want, take off their hats. Here's the Horvatin's case. As a result, Mr. Bunjac, I agree with your debate, the judiciary is a key problem for Croatian societies, which is why we are lagging behind in the economy, which is why young people are leaving because they don't feel real security, and who's going to invest in this kind of justice? Who? Who was convicted of conversion and privatisation? Except they take their hat off when they come to court, and they don't worship them. I think it's time to send a message to the young people now that this can't go on and on and on about how to appoint judges who obviously are so I don't think he's in China anymore or in Korea North. So it's time to change things, protect the big ones, and the little ones take their heads off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54953	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54954	Thank you very much. Representative Bulj, so you're absolutely right when you say that judges should show the property cards as well as the MPs, but they should actually show them before the MPs because their function is much more sensitive than the MPs. I think the citizens think the MPs are a little less corrupt than the judges, at least according to these official polls. And not only should we show their property cards, but the property cards should show their entire relatives, and they should be listed all the way to the plate, spoons and shoes, and then let them tell fairy tales about how they honorably judge and can, then they can get closer and further relatives, and then judge gentlemen. And because they do not want to show in particular Mr. Sessa does not want to explain his business relationship with Ivica Todorovic, and that is why we can say so now that Ivica Todorovic has never been convicted of war profiteering. Who sold grain from Croatian commodity stocks in the London Stock Exchange to buy cheap grain from Serbia afterwards, due to the war, and of course for the dinars he was changing into, which Croatia rejected and traded there for foreign exchanges. That, if that had been cleared up, there would never have been this affair that we're having, there would never be a need for an investigative committee or for these breaks that we have every 15 minutes. That's what the courts were supposed to do. Yes, but the courts had business relations with Mr. Todorovic, and the parties had financed campaigns from Mr. Todorovic. So how can you now if he financed the campaign against him say something? And it's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54955	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, Mr Djuro Sessa, the rapporteur, asked for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54956	Thank you very much. Just a minute. Just two things. Article 45 The Court Act states that no specific cases will be discussed, so I would ask that you do not put me in a position to discuss a specific court case because it is simply not up to me to comment, nor may I say anything, and so does the Law on Courts when, where prescribed, the submission of a report to the President of the Supreme Court. Second thing, these 20 judges who are a security threat don't exist. That's what SOA Director here at the National Security Committee said, and that's what he said to former Minister Sprlja who for some of his reasons didn't want to share it with the public, and that's what SOA Director told me. Therefore, it is a disinformation that is constantly valid with the Croatian public space, and it is not true at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54957	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54958	Mr. Sessa, we expected you to answer the question of MPs, and the question primarily concerns judges, because the fact that Croatian society, and you know that Croatian society has a perception that more than 2/3 of people are disappointed with the Croatian judiciary, is one of the conditions of economic collapse of Croatia. We know that no one was convicted of war profit, of a robbery in privatisation. There's a review here, the system doesn't work, you're witnessing it. You're literally protected like bears. They don't talk to you, you don't get any conflicts of interest. You can't be in anything. You don't teach property cards to the public. For what? Why wouldn't the public know? And I repeat, we judge small ones, judge the most difficult as if murderers are those grandmothers who sell onions, you take their heads off while Horvatinčić and Todorovics are numerous, now it's in fashion to call him out but everyone else who helped him you take off his hat. The hats of the Republic of Croatia are being taken off, so everyone sees it. When you came to bow, because you couldn't function differently, the system couldn't function. Well, this is the bottom! So does anyone in this Croatia have to say that to your face? Praise things like you don't live in this country. The judiciary and the judiciary of you judges who, so look at the whole public is appalled by the situation in which the Croatian state is in a court of law. Criminals are free to walk, and little heads are coming off, little one. On them, sharpen your muscles, and trample them. Release the property cards, come out bravely. Here's our property card. Who are you afraid of? You are not gods if you are Supreme Court and Judges! People above all else! If we can give the property cards, no reason why you don't give it away. Tell the public and tell them whether I'm right or wrong. Why would you be protected? [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54959	Thank you, Mr. Bull. You made yourself clear. [[/Intruder Bulj: For national security?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54960	We're going back to work. Next he applied for a debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia's respected Ivan Lovrinović. Since he's not here, he's losing his right to debate. After him is the Most Independent Lists and Honorable colleague Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54961	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament has not discussed the report by the President of the Supreme Court, neither for 2015 nor for 2016 until today. In fact, the last two Assembly meetings did not discuss this report on the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. In the meantime, we received a recent report a few months ago and a new Supreme Court president who is now presenting the report in question, although he is not his author. But since he was the judge of the Supreme Court, Mr. Sessa, he must have been well referred to the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. From this report, we in MOST Independent Lists expected the focus on the objective state and functioning of the judicial authority, organisational problems and shortcomings in the legislation and on all proposals for improving the work of the courts, as it says in the Law on Courts, Article 45, which is the basis for the submission of this report. Just what I said should be the content of the report. However, this report unfortunately contains a large number of tables and statistics in itself. The report that, in fact, we have two reports in 2 years is generally positive intonated, primarily through thousands of numbers that should confirm that the courts work faster, more efficiently and better quality. The fact is that there is a reduction in the number of courts, that there is a trend in the reduction of cases for the fourth year in a row, that at the end of 2016 there are also about 467 thousand pending cases without land-based books from the court register and that so far is the smallest number in several years. It is also a fact that the number of judges is reduced and that in 2012, he was a judge, today, at the end of 2016, one hundred less, 1830. That no new judge was received interestingly in the past year, 49 of them were released for retirement. But the fact is that in this place, there's no fresh blood in that system, and the question is when will the trainees show up, for years we've been talking about it, we haven't had any new trainees who would one day take over the duty of a judge. The fact is, at least for now, there's no big change. Yesterday it just coincided with this report in front of the Croatian Parliament an open conference of faster, better, more modern judiciary on the occasion of the European Day of Justice. He was at the conference, said the Prime Minister who spoke about how justice reform was one of the longest reforms, which dealt with a number of governments, is crucial for the economic work and development of Croatia's perception as a country incentivising investment and the work of judicial authorities as a key political, economic and legal issue of continuity in the centre of public and media interest. And I repeat exactly what the Prime Minister said because it is important that today we discuss the truth as the 5th topic today in the afternoon when everything else is more important than this crucial topic that the prime minister himself said is a key, political, economic and legal issue. The prime minister himself said that procedures still take too long to violate the right of citizens to trial within the legal time limit, judicial independence does not exclude responsibility for their decisions, trust in the judiciary is low, and that is the perception we must change together. And what is the public's perception of the judgmental authority? Of course, when we talk about perception, it's usually not a solid proof of numbers, exact facts that we can present. However, there are certain studies that are relevant. The last to be carried out on this was carried out by the European Commission this year, so it is very fresh because it was conducted in January 2017, a survey in all EU Member States on the perception of the independence of national, judicial systems in the general public. What are the results of this research? In 17 Member States at least half of the respondents consider their judicial system in terms of independence of courts and judges to be good. However, in Croatia 62% of respondents believe the system is bad. And by that, we are the worst Member State since Bulgaria, where 63% of those who claim this, we are the second worst member of the EU in this perception. And 27% of Croatian citizens believe that the judicial system is very bad and that perception makes us the worst member state in the EU. With 64% of Croatian citizens, the status and position of judges is sufficiently guaranteed by their independence and we are the worst among the EU countries. Also among citizens who believe that the judicial system is bad in Croatia, 85% believe it is because of the government's interference or pressure and politicians. This makes Slovenia and Spain the worst in the EU. By observing the entire national sample of 53% of Croatian citizens, the government and politicians feel that the interference of the government explains why there is no independence of the national judicial system. 45% of them think it's because of the pressure of economic and other interests. I note that this research carried out in all Member States was done on a sample that was the same in all countries, about 1000 citizens. So 1,000 in Croatia but also 1000 in Germany, France and other countries that are far larger by population. Which means that the relevant sample in Croatia was actually far greater, statistically than in large EU Member States, so it has more objectively because the sample is therefore far more representative. You have another report that was also carried out at the same time that gives perceptions of the independence of national judicial systems by companies. In Croatia, 67% of respondents, therefore in companies, thinks that the Croatian judicial system is bad and therefore we are the worst among all EU Member States. How do you think this will affect foreign investment and investment in Croatia given such an extremely unfavourable distribution across the EU? Do you think it will have no effect, that it will not affect the investment rate, that it is only a foggy perception of 2/3 of those respondents in Croatian companies who gave their view on it. I would never in this way minorise this research or any other research as a mere perception that is not relevant. It's very relevant, unfortunately. These figures are, I won't say warning, they're not even the yellow card, they're the red card, they should be worried because the numbers are terrible, we're almost the worst EU Member State in the assessment of citizens and business people. So, regardless of which of these categories you're looking at, we're at the very beginning. On the other hand, a few days ago, you have a statement from the Association of Croatian Judges in which it reacted to the public and to a series of steps in the media on a first-degree verdict in which it is in some way considered that this is no excuse for such reactions, that in fact no entire judicial system should be condemned and all judges who are fair and worthy of their duty. And that is, of course, true and not necessary through the prism of an individual inadequacy decision being observed whole because we can always say that in any system there are extremely honest and high-quality people, but unfortunately the part that doesn't work in that way in any system can, unfortunately, lead to a perception that is extremely negative. It is therefore necessary to take a critical look at the state of the judicial authority, but we must go from ourselves. The Croatian Parliament certainly did not contribute as much as it could to the better work of the judicial authority. Due to frequent changes in laws that have no doubt affected the organisation and operation of the judicial authority. The new Criminal Procedure Act was amended six times in 2008 and some provisions were abolished by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The penal law, which entered into force on 1 January 2013, has already been amended several times, almost every year. The normative, therefore, legislative framework is certainly the source of the work of the problem, the question of how much it causes or enables too long judicial proceedings, especially in complex cases, precisely those of the public interest. Yesterday, the prime minister said in his statement that a whole series of procedural and material laws had changed, allowing for the length of court proceedings to be shortened. I am sincerely surprised by that statement because, according to everything we know now, the duration of the more important, more complex court proceedings, especially in criminal cases, is far above the reasonable term spoken of. Such actions extend to 6, 7, 8, 10 years, and today it has been said that some of the procedures in which there are an extremely large number of witnesses and a number of defendants and where the court record is huge, will last for years and years. All this is to be discussed, unfortunately, is not enough only once a year or once every two years to discuss the state of the judicial authority. Of course, part of the responsibility lies with the legislative authority. And we should do everything and appeal and ask the Ministry of Justice to really scan the entire system, the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and to seek a reform of procedures that, at least from a normative point of view, could speed up the procedure in those particularly important, especially criminal proceedings because the current situation is absolutely unsustainable. What we have now is not that justice is slow but accessible. More often it would be said that justice is disputed or unattainable. And that's the biggest problem, let's start with ourselves. But there's other actors, there's State's Attorney's office, there's courts, there's part of their responsibility. What I should also appeal to the new President of the Supreme Court, when a report is submitted to us next year on the state of the judicial authority, I ask that there be fewer tables, numbers, to be proposed measures which you see and which we can implement in the legislative framework, how to improve the work of the judicial authority, how to shorten the duration of the proceedings, how to reach this famous reasonable deadline that can guarantee a fair procedure for all individual entities found in it. Especially in those cases that citizens are interested in. Justice must be available, fast, effective, and must be brought to life by the rule of law. And therefore, since this is not even your report, the first report that you have submitted to you, I appeal to you as the President of the Supreme Court on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, do everything on the proposals for measures, the legislative framework, the judicial organisation in a way that you see that indeed this poor perception that is not ours, which is officially the EU, will change and that next year we will not talk about kidnapping giving Croatia at the beginning of the EU at the perception of the national judicial system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54962	Thank you. Two replicas, first honorary colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54963	As an expert on constitutional law, you spoke of the fact that the Croatian judiciary, the judiciary at the bottom of the EU, and it was strange, it would be strange to be someone below us because the fact that there is justice in Croatia is a simple sentence, "Where the money sounds like justice is burning." The fact is, we're high, i.e. At the bottom of the scale and on corruption, we see that "heads are being taken off" only people, condemning only people who are weaker in property. And those who have money, who whisper money, they can literally kill people, but they'll be free. Unfortunately, the Croatian judiciary, professor, can be described in a single sentence in its own language. The pleasures of the rich are bought with tears of the poor. It is a fact today in Croatia, with tears of the poor. How many factories, the backpacks, the factories that were robbed, the workers are on the road, in containers. How many of their kids are running out, so someone's here responsible, where are the verdicts? To repeat, as I said at the outset, “Where the money sounds, there is justice. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54964	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54965	Thank you. In my presentation, I don't think I've touched any concrete legal proceedings, court proceedings, and that's exactly what we can't do in the legislative authority either. But the fact is that we must in some way turn to a judicial authority that is independent, I believe that the Constitution has guaranteed the independence of the judicial authority, especially after the constitutional changes in 2010, but we must in some way react and point out that the situation is alarming in the judicial system and that this is not just a mere perception that is somehow felt in the air or about which it is written in our media but that there are clearly relevant research based on a relevant statistical sample that will be relevant for the EU's assessment of the state of our judicial system. We can't ignore that. Therefore, regardless of the specific cases we must not discuss, we must indicate that, regardless of the independence of the judicial authority, there is a responsibility. And that is why we appeal to you as the President of the Supreme Court because you are at the top of that pyramid that the system that you are headed for really takes this responsibility seriously at this very moment which is extremely important.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54966	Okay. Another replica of a respected colleague, Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54967	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Perception of the public about the judicial authority. I'll read you an e-mail that circulates amongst people and will tell you a lot about how people experience the judiciary and all of us. He says: “Where do we live? There's an abortion here trying to settle for murder and a murder under syncope. You'll be here more... For four joints in the car than for four bodies under the car. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, in place of the murderers, bicycles without helmet are removed and “you were driving 63 a.k.a. 60”. Here the midwives who went on foot to the red throw on the floor and bring them in. This is where the inspections shut down the small merchants because of the kuna surplus in the register and the millions of missing cash registers don't open. You're here poor if you have a few hundred kunas long and a couple hundred million dollars long you're a gentleman. You don't trust hungry families here. They're trying to make arrangements here that maybe you're not family if you don't have a child. Here are all the children of God, unless you have Down syndrome, then the priest refuses to honor you because God is new to numbers and chromosomes." And here there is a lot of it written by a small man who really doesn't believe in the rule of law anymore. I can't generalize and don't talk about it and I won't talk about all the judges being like that, but we definitely have to be here worried about being perceived by people who, a little man and we're passing laws and what kind of situation our destiny is in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54968	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54969	Thank you, just for a little while. This article you have read, I have read as many others, there are many such articles, they are not individual but that is all I will comment on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54970	Next is SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected counterpart, Orsat Milenic. Since he is not here, he loses his right to speak, so now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected Marko Simic. Okay. Now let's get back to work. It is a club of HDZ representatives and respected counterpart Marko Šimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54972	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we have a report by the President of the Supreme Court on the state of the judicial authority for 2015 and 2016. As we know in accordance with the law, i.e. in accordance with Article 45. The Law on Courts, President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, is required to submit once a year a report on the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. In these reports for 2015 and 2016, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia shall analyse the conditions for the work of courts, both in terms of human potential and both in terms of material and financial conditions for work. All the results of the judicial authority have been shown in tables over the past two years. The report also gives a general review of the court's work both in cities and in branches. We can say that both reports on the state of the judicial authority are marked by the retention of the reduction in the number of cases which started in 2011 somewhere, which means that a number of cases have been resolved, from the number of cases received during 1 year. It is known that in the Republic of Croatia the judicial authorities carry out municipal courts, county courts, commercial courts, administrative courts, criminal courts, the High Court of Commerce, the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The important year for us is certainly 2015 because there is a reorganisation of the trial in the Republic of Croatia, the number of courts decreases greatly. Thus, the number of courts from 256 is reduced to 161 of which 158 work later in the second half of 2015 and there is a reduction in the number of courts to 77 of which all 77 courts work. The President of the Supreme Court reported in his report that the trend of a reduction in the number of pending cases has continued. The number of cases received and solved in 2015 was 101.77% and for 2016. 104.41%. There has been an increase in the number of pending cases in the trial's commercial branch, due to changes in the bankruptcy law, there have been a number of bankruptcy cases, almost 16,000 cases. The largest number of pending cases, related to the civil branch of the trial, is about 72% of pending cases, while the Penalty has about 7%, the Infringement 18%, and the Administration of 3% of unsolved cases. In 2016, there was also a trend in reducing the number of cases pending in bankruptcy proceedings by some 244%. As regards human potential, it is evident that the number of court employees is decreasing, so in 2014, there were 8669 persons employed in the courts in 2015. 8527 persons, 2016 8458 people. The number of civil servants in courts, which was in 2016 in 1830, was also reduced in the year 1879. These data also confirm the forecasts we have seen in the report on the continuing decline of the number of judges in the courts, as well as the reduction of the number of other employees, and such a trend is foreseen in the future and due to the structure, the age structure of court officials. It may be important to note when talking about the total number of women women are in some percentage of 82% present at Croatian courts. As regards the reduction of the number of judges, it is important to note that in 2015 35 judges came out of the system while in 2016 49 judges and 49 other officials came out of the system, of which 16 judges, 8 judicial advisers. As regards material and financial resources, it is important to note that more than 80% of these funds are spent on wages, it is warned that the need for more resources for the education of judges, for the training of professionals, for specializations, for the purchase of professional literature and for the like is certainly very necessary in quality work and behaviour of the duties of Croatian judges. It is important to note that larger investments and larger investments in 2014 and 2015 are invested in the implementation of information systems in our judiciary. It is thus adapted to the information system e-script and the JCMS system. Further information on the system is important and should be focused on the implementation of the electronic file in order to finally achieve the efficient and modern business of our courts. Electronic communication is both necessary and important because of the obligations Croatia has made by entering the EU and by monitoring all EU trends and the level of development of the information of the European countries' judiciary, it is therefore important to implement full and electronic communication in Croatian courts. When we talk about branches in the Croatian judiciary, the criminal branch of the trial stands solidly, the ratio of the number of cases solved and received from year to year varies and is about 100%, therefore, is equal to the number of cases solved to the number of cases which courts receive in certain years. In 2015, an automated procedure was introduced to assign the cases to county courts as an anti-corruption measure, and we saw some negative consequences of this introduction because, for example, the County Court in Vukovar received some number of cases than that court may at this time be able to accept it. For 2016, the number of pending cases is on the rise when we talk about the criminal branch of the trial. The increase in the case in the county courts and the number of resolved cases in the county courts is analogous to that, according to the larger inflow and higher. As for the criminal department of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, we see that the inflow of new cases to the Supreme Court in a continuing fall, the number of pending cases has been reduced year by year, it is 584 cases in 2015, while in 2016 it is 566 cases and there are really greater shifts in recent years. We see that when we talk about old age, it is important to note that in 2007 there were 687 cases in old age, in 2015 and 2016 we cannot talk about similar problems, in old age it went to municipal courts of 17 cases, in county court 2, so a total of 19 cases in 2015. As regards the monitoring of the work of municipal courts, we can conclude that there has been a reduction of pending cases in all types of proceedings between 2013 and 2016, the number of pending cases for 86 250 cases has been reduced. We see that there is a problem with trade courts where we have an increased number of cases by certain judges and we see quite a discrepancy between courts or the burden of individual judges by the number of cases in certain courts. A review of the movement of civil cases shows that courts in the past 2 years have been reducing backlogs thus reducing the number of pending cases per judge, 30% of the old cases are being solved annually. A total of 365 cases were delegated during 2015. It is important to note that quality remained at 14.7% of the suspension decisions therefore take further steps to educate judges and monitor the quality of work. It is also important to note from the Government's opinion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has found in its opinion and notes that the European Court of Human Rights made more judgments during 2016 and 2015 claiming infringements of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms by the conduct of domestic courts, whether the courts did not properly apply the Convention or even applicable domestic law, and is one of the indicators that more efforts should be made and slightly greater resources in the education and specialisation of judges. The Committee of Justice adopted this report, i.e. both reports unanimously, and I can say that the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament will also accept this report for 2015 and 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54973	Thank you. We have one replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54974	Dear Representative Simic, how do you comment that the Supreme Court abolished the HDZ verdict with the power of which they were essentially found guilty of criminal association and the withdrawal of large amounts of money and in light of the fact that most of these same judges were appointed by the will of the same party, or your party to HDZ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54975	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54976	Dear colleague Pernar, I'm not used to commenting on court proceedings, especially trial pending. All I can say is that in that trial, I wasn't a judge, I wasn't a witch, I didn't have a record. I believe in the rule of law, believe in the institutions of the rule of law, believe in the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia. Surely there are some anomalies in certain cases, but there are more facts, there is an evaluation of judges, and of course there are some measures that are being done by judges. So, in a specific case, I really don't have any comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54977	Let's move on. Now a respected colleague, Vesna Pusic, is on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54978	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say a few words about these two reports or I can say more about these two reports on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU. Although it is rarely happening and it is rare for me to agree with what practically everyone or can say to all my colleagues before me, including even my colleague Simic, who is simply for those who read weaker, convinced the report. So the truth says it all in this report, but I think it's actually an unfortunate circumstance for us to discuss such an important topic at the same time that the whole drama around Agrokor is turning up or happening. Because the situation in the judiciary is no less important. It can even be said that perhaps the most important or in the context of practically all the difficulties we have and certainly is nothing less important than the debate on the situation in Agrokor, but it is in some way passing through the shadow of this great affair and therefore gets less attention, and at least as much the situation in the judiciary concerns and touches all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as it is the Agrokor case and I am particularly afraid as the Agrokor case will be in the months and years ahead. Both reports show mostly statistics. Statistics aren't irrelevant. Of course, it is important to reduce the number of pending cases, especially since Croatia is one of the leading countries by the number of judges per capita. So it's certainly not leading by efficiency, as it turns out, that I'm not quoting all these studies that my colleagues quoted in front of me. So, statistics are not irrelevant, but the point of the problem is also the point of what required that these data that are now being shown as statistics, or that this state of statistics is being shown, and now, in some ways, the essence of these changes has not been to change statistics. The point of these changes was to change the situation in the judiciary, so to increase efficiency, to achieve or at least achieve greater uniformity of court rulings on the same always the same as if I could say Vlado Gotovina quoted Aristotle's logic. So in this particular case, I am afraid that the situation has not improved, and that is why all of us in the debates simply have to call for cases not to discuss specific cases, but because concrete cases are illustrations, the reason and the basis for a negative perception of the judiciary. Because negative perception is in itself important, but negative perception is also the result of the real situation. So negative perception isn't just something abstract, here's what people seem. This is what it seems to people because they look at specific cases and from these specific cases they conclude. Why do I say perception is important? Perception is important because people of course behave according to their perception. They act according to how they see an institution functioning and to what extent they have confidence in it because of how they experience it. So, if someone, a young family or a certain man wants to make a decision on an investment, he will, based on his perception of legal certainty, make that decision to invest here or not. If he decides to seek justice through institutions, and don't let God outside the institutions, he will, such a decision will, of course, also be based on his perception. But perception, so who's important now is not everything. All perception is combined or as a reflection of the real state, and that, I think about this real state, that we in the Croatian Parliament have to talk and we have to talk about it because it depends on the stability and future of the state and is the basis of the absolute functioning of the state. At the time of Croatia's EU membership negotiations, we had a monitoring of the judiciary. And at that time, I remember the ministers were both colleagues Bosnjakovic and fellow Simonovic and we were all together at that time as we had a consensus on Croatia's entry into the EU and on the need for judicial reform we co-operated and discussed it and it went in a positive direction. I remember well, when we were with counterpart Shimonovic, who was then the minister, discussing the possibility that, as a rule, from entry to exit of the case from the trial, the duration of 12 months should be determined. It was an ideal at the time, but not an ideal that was not talked about or that seemed unattainable. And the changes that took place in the judiciary in the evaluation of judges, in the education of people entering this extremely important profession, indicated that, in this direction, we would move and eventually reach that desired goal. I must be here in front of you who listen, not to say in front of the public, to say that I am precisely based on this on the conclusion of our negotiations and just before our formal entry into the EU, with a full heart and with full conviction that our monitoring of the judiciary is lifted, at the moment we become a full member of the EU. I thought first that when we become a full member, we must have the same situation as everyone else and secondly, we are going in a good direction, we will continue that direction and therefore, there is no need to retain any international, or European monitoring over the Croatian judiciary. I must be here with grief and to say, that today, I think I was wrong, that I was wrong when I thought that trend would continue and that we would no longer need the EU monitoring, as far as the judiciary is concerned. The situation did not develop as it appeared in 2011, so in 2012, during which the ratification of the accession contract took place and the situation happened, as regards the content of the work of the judiciary, not statistics, statistics improved and there is nothing to say and this should be welcomed. But as far as content is concerned, the way it works, as far as uniform case-law is concerned, no matter what part of Croatia or which part of Croatia is concerned, the situation has deteriorated. And in public perception a huge role is played by facts such as killing a few people in traffic and being freed. I agree, inadmissible, with a first-degree verdict. But also first-degree, why the first-degree should be, here suggests, the opposite of what would possibly be a later verdict in one of these situations and finally, only if it was decided, is our former colleague Stipe Petrina who said it would happen in advance. So, such situations or two young men who were killed by a third young man and received minimum prison sentences, with eased circumstances, that one brother died in the war, and the other one had a small child. These are the facts on which perception is based. And you can't discuss perception or the state of justice if you're not talking about real people. About the real situations people go through. The person I know, for one thing, let's just say, quite another level, has been going through a divorce case for 19 years with a debate, that is, a decision on property. She started at 45 and ended up at 64. I think these are things that create perception and actually create a negative attitude, and in this respect, it is the only moment where I disagree with my colleague Simic, and over 60% of Croatian citizens also seem to disagree with him when he said he had confidence in the Croatian judiciary. More than anything, I wish we could have absolute confidence in the Croatian judiciary and have such concrete cases, which we know from either the newspapers or everyone in our lives, from our friends, neighbors, acquaintances, so not some particularly media-interesting people, but simply the people who entered this sacrifice that had been grinding them for 20 years and de facto took away the best years of their lives when they couldn't go on vacation, when they couldn't live normally because they were guarding the apartment or I don't know what they were discussing for 20 years. So these are the things that affect the impression we have. The relationship between the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, therefore, when the Supreme Court brings a verdict, then the Constitutional Court which should not be part of that chain returns it to the beginning. So put the whole case back to square one. This relationship is just as interesting to us, and I think we should open it up and talk about it. So all of this points to the need for such reports to really suggest how such situations can be avoided in the future and how can such a case-law that things and facts and impressions end? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54979	We don't have a replica. So we're done with counseling clubs now. And we move on to individual debates. The first is a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54980	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Judge Sessa, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must say that I will give a passing assessment of the report. And now I'd like to say a few words about the work of the judicial authority. We live in a world where we get cornered. things look black and rarely when seen through a different prism. We live in a world that likes negative sensations, and positive events very rarely see on the cover, usually these positive events are somewhere on the side, small titles, small icons. But negative sensations, such as the Horvatincic sensation, have taken up media space for days. On the other hand, sensations that are positive don't take the cover. And I'm going to say what happened recently, it happened on 3.10.2017 and yesterday was a statement from the Supreme Court, and what happened was that the Supreme Court abolished the judgment of the High Court of Commerce, accepted the review of the consumer association, that is, the Association of Franck. So, I'm talking about something that's over. I'm not talking about something to decide on, I'm talking about something that's over. So, the Supreme Court has completed its process. He went back to the High Court of Commerce. And I don't see a single cover in huge letters written by the Supreme Court abolished the High Court's verdict and accepted the revision of the Consumer Association, or Franak. And this is about a case involving over 100,000 Croatian families. So, it doesn't apply to some kind of car accident over there. I have to say that despite some cases of cover-up, it's a traffic accident. Now, as interesting as it is or not, I personally don't find that too interesting. I'm much more interested in mass cases, and the franc case is one mass case, where it's already been decided that it's already been decided by law, the part has not been abolished, that 7 banks have negotiated an illegal variable interest rate with consumers. And now I have to tell you who's doing a good job, who's not doing a good job. So seven banks were convicted. We can say that the court has done its job well. After 7 banks are convicted, people should now go into private court proceedings and demand their money back in court. And it's over 100,000 people. When such a verdict is reached on such a judicial dispute that is systematic, which applies to many people, then it should be the task of the executive and legislative authorities to solve the problem systematically. So, after 2013. The judgment was reached on 13.6.2013. So far, he's had 10 convictions, and we've got about 3,000 as far as I'm aware of the disputes that take place in first-degree courts. And over 100,000 people are damaged. So the executive and legislative authorities didn't do their job. The executive and legislative authority should have, on the basis of such a collective verdict, been able to resolve the case and allow people out of court to get their money, which is their money. And it's not just theirs, it's the money that when people come back to them, they'll pay, they'll spend, it'll grow in GDP, the banks won't fail. No way. Therefore, the Supreme Court has respected this revision of the Consumers Association, i.e. the Franks Association and what is most important in that judgment, it is said that the case-law of the EU court must be respected. So, as much as some people have been against the EU, I can say that I am very grateful that we have entered the EU, because the EU court is a top expert judicial body to which we deserve to belong and to which we deserve to answer. And I'm very glad we got into the Union, and that Union may have saved us. Now the High Commercial will decide. I'm not gonna say anything about that. But I hope at least that verdict is passed in half a year. What I'd like to talk about is one case of unequal court practice. After that collective verdict has been passed, which is powerful in part for 7 banks and regarding variable interest rates. We've got 10 final convictions. However, there is no uniform case law in these judgments. In these powerful judgments, some judgments are such as to allow the debtor to receive only money back for 5 years, while other rulings are such as to allow the debtor to receive all the overpaid money from the beginning, so since the bank started to apply an illegal variable interest rate. I know that there are at least two extraordinary audits that have been sent to the Supreme Court, and in these extraordinary audits, one complains to the prosecutor, the consumer, and the other complains to the bank. The consumer complains that it has been decided that it has become obsolete in its dispute and the bank complains because its dispute has ruled that there is no outdated claim, so it would be really desirable now, I will not reconsider again, I will not say what the Supreme Court should judge, but I will say that it is really desirable that the Supreme Court adopts these extraordinary audits as soon as possible and thus bring legal certainty to all future prosecutors. Because what's this about? The man who presses charges doesn't know at this point whether good money or only back 5 years, and since unequal court practice, the Supreme Court is tasked with equating this case-law. So I appeal to you, Mr. Sessa, and to your court, as soon as possible, to level this case-law and preferably to hold a session and take a legal stand at the session, which will then have to be respected by all the lower courts. I usually give a passing grade to your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54981	Thank you, too. Next individual debate, respected counterpart Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54982	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Sessa, MPs and MPs. As I said during all the presentations on behalf of the club of representatives, we are literally buried every day with requests from citizens that their case is updated, that hundreds of cases are also spoken of, I will take the opportunity to present only one, which is directly related to the work of the Supreme Court and which all authorities in the Republic of Croatia are familiar with. And this is the case which, among other things, explicitly states that the Supreme Court is corrupt, I quote "to the core". This is the name of Canadian-Croatian citizen Josip Vujčić, who reported in an open letter about his case and the non-implementation of the European Court of Human Rights, he has as many as 2 of them, the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Justice. It is a gentleman who was the director of the sale of the American corporate giant General Electric, worth $750 billion and who warned that the company was violating consumer rights. After warning of this, instead of being promoted to a better position, he was fired from the company and subsequently sued the company to buy his lawyers and afterwards he had to conduct a parallel court dispute, one against the company, and the other against his own lawyers and representing himself. And in a case that lasted long and had over 4,000 pages, he won both cases, watch out, beat his own company and his own lawyers. However, the rulings have not been carried out in the Republic of Croatia and have not been implemented thanks to the policy and judiciary which today's rulings have been obstructed. Among other things, Mr Vujčić argues in an open letter, which therefore also has the President of the Parliament in his hands along with all the documents that the policy and the judiciary are visible primarily in the conduct of the President of the Republic and the US Embassy, who directly corrupts courts in the Republic of Croatia by donating information material, thus giving the municipal court $2 million donation, i.e. they gave it to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the DORH another $4 million donation to keep quiet about Mr Vujčić's case, i.e. obstructing him and similar cases. Among other things, I repeat once again, in an open letter, a man who has two powerful verdicts claims that judges, therefore the Supreme Court president of all important cases in Croatia, are headed by the US Embassy and the British Embassy. Moreover, there is no British secret service office in the municipal court building in Zagreb, and among other things Mr. Vujčić warns that these British secret services had offices in the municipal court named... and directly affect the work of the judiciary and of all courts in Croatia until the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Among other things, Mr. Vujčić, in a letter that you have all received, all the club representatives you have, warns that Croatian secret services have tried to bribe several times, reach a settlement that directly admitted their guilt only to remain silent, and when they failed, then Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic ordered the murder of his wife and son and they barely survived. So that he was then re-indicted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, etc., that the Director of SOA was urgently transferred to Los Angeles to get immunity and to keep quiet about it. Among other things, Mr. Vujčić argues that General Electric has in Croatia the interests of building LNG terminals and that the US former secretary-general, or candidate for president, has conditioned its arrival in Croatia by obstructing its verdicts. Among other things, because General Electric, the chief financier of her election campaign, was. And now you tell me, if that's true, and no one has denied it, and the letter is open, then you tell me, Mr. Sessa, am I asking everyone else if Croatia is even a state? Are we a state or are we a "banana republic" in which courts, politicians and all state bodies execute the orders of American and other corporations. Because what it says here, and it's been in the House for as long as I've seen for half a year, that no one reacts to it, that no one has denied it. Why didn't you deny it? I'm terrified of this. Among other things, it is claimed in this open letter that Mr. Miro Kovac was not admitted to US Vice President Cary because of this case. That's what it says, please, in the open letter. ... Mrs. Pusic, the gentleman has two final convictions. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Where did you get the right to derivate the European Court of Human Rights and you fought the most about Croatia entering the EU to have legal protection. So now you're jumping into your own mouth. You're on your own. You fought for the EU. You said people wouldn't have pensions if we didn't join the EU, that they wouldn't have any rights. And now that you have two final judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, you're saying now that it's a piece of paper, that it's a nebulosis. I can't believe what you're saying here. Take a 4000-page file into your hands and study it for a little bit. I gave myself a hard time, so I studied it unlike you. To me, what citizens send to Parliament aren't pieces of paper, it's human lives to me, it's a question of whether I have my own country or not. Because what we're reading here is just terrible. A man is being obstructed by a powerful verdict. So I repeat once again, by the American Embassy, the secret services of Croatian and foreign, the Office of the President of the Republic. And why is that kept quiet? Why is it now USKOK and here, as these agents write here with Mr. Vujčić trying to make a deal, pay him tens of millions of euros on his hands just to finally cover it up. Among other things, Mr. Vujčić said that shortly after the visit of Prince Charles to Croatia on 14 and 15.3.2016, he was re-launched by a secret agent, Željko Omazic, who distributes American vacuum cleaners to the Republic of Croatia, otherwise he was the first employer of former Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. All this I have now stated is once again with the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic of Croatia and Mr Sesse of the Supreme Court in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54983	We have one replica, respected representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54984	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What I said was not just a piece of paper, but a piece of paper to bear. I can't talk about what I don't know about, but what I know I can talk about. So, as far as judgments are concerned, if a man has the rightful judgments, of course they should be carried out. And I don't know about these other allegations, and I can't talk. But what I can talk about because I know is the visit of American Secretary of State Hilary Clinton to Croatia at the time, because I made direct arrangements and the conditions were not at all. No way! So this man's name was not mentioned, nor any conditions for her arrival in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54985	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54986	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Pusic. So as you know these are publicly available data here they are online. ... The campaign's chief financier, Hilary Clinton. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is where the data was presented, so in that open letter. This may not be directly your concern, so the Supreme Court judges are briefing on cases such as these and similar foreign intelligence services. Moreover, the offices of these services are located in the municipal court building in Zagreb. I didn't go in there to check, and these are very serious charges. If that's what came to Mr. Sessa Prime Minister, the presidents and all the MPs, you had to do something about it. You just had to say I don't know these are crazy, that's not true. You should have sent a demarch, a transcript, just say, do you realize what the seriousness of these accusations is? And it's just one of the sea cases that I can present here today because I've got dozens of them, where people are disgusted, where they just think it's something unimaginable, that it can't be compared to the worst totalitarian regimes in which some of them have lived, that there's lost every possible freedom. Look, he's saying the prime minister orders the murder of his children. And you don't think that's scary? And you know very well what I'm saying and now pretend like it's the first time you've heard it in your life. It's really sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54987	Let's move on. Next individual debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54988	Thank you very much. Mr. Sessa, we've been looking for a number of answers, and the MPs have asked a question. We did not get the key answers because the fact that an independent judiciary is very important to be independent, but it is also a fact that Croatian citizens about the judiciary, the judiciary, the judicial authority, judges, most judges, of course not all, have an extremely negative opinion. And I will repeat what I said and at the beginning that the key to mistrust is in the judiciary because people remain, the economy is not developing, it's a fact, and mainly unequal judgments. We need to know that when a man, I told you that, once again, when a man with his boat, a yacht kills two people, gets a free judgment, and when someone drives 10 kilometers faster than they need to get a prison or when some midwife at the market sells her domestic product, there's a judiciary very fast and efficient. And of course, I will repeat what I said and what my colleagues said, we are at the bottom of all the criteria and perceptions of the public in all the EU research. You were on the negotiating team around the judiciary when you joined the EU, and apparently you see these effects, that if you are simply rewarded for it, and if this system doesn't change the judiciary, if you are protected in the judiciary, I said and I will repeat it again as a face bear, I don't see any reason why you don't give your property cards, from whom you hide them. If the MPs, Prime Minister, can ask all others in society who are property card officials for their husbands, check everything alive, why not you? So you're not above, you're above Parliament, you're independent, but why this thing doesn't change, you've been in the judiciary for a long time, which is why you haven't affected this, and if you want to influence justice not to be corrupt. I'll repeat that proverb, in Croatia it's visible, the people know it, the people see it, maybe it doesn't look like that under these lights. “Where money sounds, justice gnaws.” It is true and you can very easily and easily check it in all studies of public opinion that are most opposed i.e. he rebels and talks, and that's a disagreement to the judiciary. That's a fact, and you can't run from it. How many convictions in 2016 were for the privatisation robbery, how many positive ones were made, how many times the judiciary was i.e. The judiciary and judges sided with workers who lost their seats, I don't see those examples, I'm sorry, but I don't see them. All those who robbed the Croatian state walk free, everyone. They've created their empires, we've got a handful of rich people, everything else is poor. This confirms the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. That's why we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. No more young people. And the judiciary is backed by politics is one of the key culprits. We may have good regulations, we may be changing them often, we may have copied them through the EU directive, but they are not respected and it is not archaic, and you know what an archaic is, meaning the criteria for each one. These are the problems you have to think about and you cannot rise up to Mr. Sessa or any judge above any official. You can be moved deep with politics, politically set but the people have chosen us and we have to teach property cards and that's okay. Why not you? Why if they tell the public that you sold your house to Ivica Todorovic, you don't say I didn't. Or in the property card, you say yes. If I'd done it, it would have crucified me. Or anyone. Of course, it's very important that the barrage of the court is very important and of course you'll never do it, but that's precisely why people suspect corruption in the judiciary. And the security services have provided information that there are corrupt judges. Why don't we know who these judges are who are corrupt, who affect mainly the development of the economy, human rights, many people are leaving Croatia because of these injustices. Justice is very important, it should be a pillar of justice, a pillar of justice, and it's not. Only if you were on this negotiating team before joining the EU on the chapter of the judiciary, which has been very high-qualityly located, arrested, transferred and processed by our heroes, will the Hague and Carla del Ponte ask for something very little, we would give 10 times more. If she'd asked for five papers, we'd have been given a tow truck. All institutions, you know it very well. While the Croatian state is being robbed the most. What about INA, what about telecommunications, what about the economic system, who was convicted, who was convicted? There was a process, but they always paid for the poor. Always the poor. I'll end up just finishing up Mr. Sessa, I already said that once. To small and ordinary people, you take your heads off in a court of law, and you take off your hat and bow down to rich thieves. It is the problem of Croatian society, the Croatian judiciary. You, as an authority, must change it, start from yourself and every judge. Otherwise, there is no future in Croatia. The judiciary is the biggest problem of Croatian society, as many Croatian people paid the pleasures of rich people who bought tears from the poor. Mr. Sessa, you have to answer the parliamentary questions, there is no boast, there is no protection, that the independent judiciary but not above all people. The very first example you must give your property card, first and tell the gentlemen the time to see your condition and not that the people doubt us that we are corrupt. So Horvatinčić now drives through Zagreb fast BMW while the grandmother who sold onions or works in Dalmatia or workers from Metković, Osijek, Rijeka, or I don't know where they have to go to jail and bring them in as the biggest criminals and they don't have bread. It's your responsibility because of those who are looking for food tonight, who are more and more poor every day, and their children are leaving. The judiciary, along with the policy that enabled them to do so, also agreed or disagreed with me, and this research is said by one of the culprits in the Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54989	Now you should speak to a respected colleague, Gordan Maras, but since he is not losing his right to debate, so let's move on to the last individual debate, it's a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54990	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out a problem that concerns the issue of antiquity of war profit. In fact, the Croatian Parliament has decided that war profits do not go out of date in 2010. Support was unanimous. However, according to the Constitutional Court’s interpretation and later the Supreme Court’s decision seems, that is, nothing. In the case of HDZ President Ante Jelavic, the Supreme Court has given an opinion that is more than certain that his process will go out of date because the investigation against him was launched in 2007 and the same thing is the case in Sanader, the same thing is in the case of Mr Djura Gavrilovic and similar macro-profits. So what the Supreme Court actually tells us is this. If you stole big money during the privatisation, or during the war, you profited from that war and the Croatian judiciary did not catch you in time yet you will pass unpunished, yet you will not be sanctioned, yet ate the wolf donkeys and return to that old never-forgotten parole of Ljuba Cessic Rojs who sits here I don't know which place he said "Who is yaming, yamio!" Whoever pitted it is the message that the Supreme Court sends by reason of the case means if I don't cheat on Ante Jelavic. Yes, Ante Jelavic for abuse of position and authority from '96. A year. Namely, by interpreting the Supreme Court that war profiting could go out of date even though the Constitutional Court has made a decision that it cannot, it is clear that the Supreme Court is playing the will of the Croatian Parliament. Whether it's in the works or not is difficult to judge. But I'm sure it is. Where it will take our society is clear. People will lose further confidence in institutions, and they will continue to be the impression that crime is not being punished. And those who have greased their mustache for big money they will pass... and that was the hardest time for Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I have no doubt that in my case where the DORH is looking for me for two months in prison for writing political graphite, I have no doubt. I don't suppose my case will go out of date. And why is that? Well, because that old-fashioned scheme has the idea of Alibius macro crime. So war profit is macro crime. And since the war is over, he's long gone. All those macro criminals are actually free. They'll be freed then for old age. Now these are my prophetic words. Both Ivo Sanader and HDZ mean former HDZ president Ivo Sanader and prime minister and his HDZ party and Ante Jelavic as former HDZ president of BiH and Djuro Gavrilovic, and all of this will be out of date by ladies and gentlemen. And I ask the question once it goes into obsolescence, when it is uncontested, when it is not disputed, the Croatian public will ask, so what was the meaning of these processes, why are hours and hours, years and years of state institutions spent in solving cases that will never be solved by a judicial verdict anyway. Why? To create an illusion in the public that crime is sanctioned. I remember when Judge Turudic, if I'm not mistaken in telling Sanader that he wants to send a social message that even the highest state officials can't escape from saying so, or that the hand of justice is slow, but ultimately available. However, with the Supreme Court's decision, a message is being sent, that the hand of justice, not only is it too slow, but also for people associated with HDZ, is often and unattainable. Or he'll never catch up with them. The people will therefore say, we are going back to the words of Ljuba Česic Royce, they will say so Royce was right when he said, who he pitted, and that is my message to the Croatian people. My message to the Croatian people is that it does not put its hopes in courts, that it does not put its hopes in the judicial system and its decisions. My message to the Croatian people is to put hope in its political will, in its political power. And to win the election, the system and the crime, because it's obvious that we can't do justice. So HDZ won't lose the battle by legal means. HDZ can lose the battle or war picturesquely speaking for power, only by political means and by election. The legal battle of HDZ cannot be lost. Because HDZ is a party above the law. HDZ is a party that writes laws, HDZ is a party that appoints judges, highest court cases and ultimately, of course, these same courts always pass judgment in their favour. Evi Sanader's verdict is dismissed, HDZ's verdict is dismissed, the ruling of Anti Jelavic, who was the president of the BBiH and many others, who, unlike just mentioned, are not so publicly exposed. And I can only say that Djuro Gavrilovic can freely rub his hands, Đuro Gavrilovic can say, I did well to raise millions of marks in the war, and you are all fools, who lived honestly. You're all fools who believed in the rule of law. You're all fools who believed in the institutions of the judiciary, etc. etc. A disgraceful verdict to Horvatinch, just a drop in the sea. There's been as many convictions as you want. I remember when the man who killed himself if I didn't cheat on two girls was released, because the court estimated that he was coming from a family that's like, I don't even know what to call a respectable family. Here, I ask, he's killed so he's free. I'm asking, is it possible that, say for me, the court says, so here's Mr. Pernar, you're gravitating, but you're coming from a respectable family. Your mother's a doctor, your father's an engineer, so we don't move on to the family tree, so here we are, so we're gonna free you. It means punishment. I suppose it won't be because my family is not respected in the way that families, i.e. family lineages, who have ruined our country, people who have acquired capital in privatisation, people who have political power in Croatia and people who control the judicial system. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my appeal, so it's not the Supreme Court judges, it's not the Supreme Court, it's not the ruling majority, it's my appeal to the Croatian voters to finally go to the polls and win the HDZ political way. Because as long as we don't beat them politically, nothing in this country will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54991	The replica of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54992	Thank you very much, Reverend Pernar. I think you've very well detected the main problem in the Republic of Croatia, which is, therefore, a situation in the judiciary that can only be won by political means. This means, not of course, that one set would come and set up its judges, but that the citizens in Croatia would finally choose people, who would allow the judiciary to be independent and just. And no, if we had a single Supreme Judge in Croatia for 25 years, and that's one grandfather, who would like to bring the two-party into the Republic of Croatia before the end of his life. I don't know what to do with myself, so before he loses all his strength, I don't know what to do with himself, and I don't know what to do with him, and then even before he loses all his strength, I don't know what to do with what his name is, and once he's gone, he's gone. Therefore, the judiciary is indeed a huge problem. Here, today we're talking about how all citizens and judges themselves are talking about how the judiciary is corrupt, and Mr. Sessa doesn't know about any single corrupt judge. He's never heard of it in his life. He's saying that the SOA report is a fantasy. About 20 corrupt judges, so where's that? Mr. Sessa, I can tell you, too, Agent Pernar, that SOA is doing its job very well. I'm personally on the National Security Committee and I know that SOA does its job well and certainly doesn't chatter. So do you think the SOA director would have told the public that 20 judges were corrupt and that he would have no consequences after that because of such a statement that she was not true? How many war profiteers are there, you also mentioned well, you know how many? One. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54993	Thank you. Now we have a final debate of the Live Wall and SNAGA Club and a colleague of Pernar's again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54994	Croatian people, if you expect justice from the justice system, you will not experience it. Croatian people, if you expect justice from those who are corrupt, you will not welcome it. I don't remember the last time a case against a corrupt judge was filed, but I do know about the case of Judge Roglic, who said that the county court, if I'm not mistaken, where he works or municipally that he's been corrupt, that the judges on him are corrupt. So the judge says, my colleagues are corrupt and he was convicted because he called them corrupt. So in Croatia, one who says corruption exists in the legal system is more likely to be convicted than someone who is corrupt. The President of the Supreme Court, he doesn't know about any of the cases of a corrupt judge, so what do you say about what our judiciary is like? Only 2 options, i.e. 2 conclusions, can be drawn from its conclusion. One conclusion is that he does not know about any case of judicial corruption, a corrupt judge because the judges are not corrupt, because our judiciary is not corrupt and because, as it would say, the system is working properly. However, our citizens tend to trust another thesis, which says, that he knows no case of a corrupt judge, because the crimes that judges do, put under the rug, because the legal system is set up in a way that judges are untouchable. Because the system is paralyzed and because the same people who should be convicted of corruption are corrupt themselves, that is, that the whole system is deeply corrupt. So these are the two options. The first is that there is no crime in the judiciary and that they are all honest, and the second is that they are actually corrupt at all levels. Looking at recent court rulings, especially by releasing Sanader, HDZ and ultimately the presidential ruling of the Supreme Court, which follows the constitutional practice, that all items of war profiteers essentially go into wartime. I can't help but think that these courts and this kind of system are leading us to ruin, to legal uncertainty, and I would dare say anarchy, or not even anarchy where no one rules, but something that would call the law stronger. So where does the one who has the bigger hand, the one who has the bigger bag, the one who has, to put it that way, closer friends. And right now it's HDZ. And I'm saying, they name judges, they pass laws, and actually they're modern-day in the legal system. Such a situation will not change until an honest and real opposition becomes a position. I'm seeing her right now in the Living Wall. It is the only party that has not participated in the government, which is by its nature corrupt. And I call on Croatian citizens, therefore, that when they go to the elections, if they care about the rule of law, if they care about it, to mix up the crime in the judiciary, to support us in the elections, because otherwise, they will continue to watch the liberating verdicts of Horvatinčić and these tycoons and means war profiteer Đuri Gavrilović and all of that, let's say, sweet people too. Including know-how, I gave an individual and former HDZ president, Mr Antu Jelavic, etc., etc., etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54995	We will now finally be addressed by the President of the Supreme Court, the Honorable Djuro Sessa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54996	Mr. President, thank you very much. Thank you very much for all the criticism, based on a report that isn't mine, but is my predecessor and I won't answer any personal assessments that concern me alone, because neither is the subject of this debate, I'm not like a person. Just a few reflections on some of the most significant remarks of principle. As far as the impression is concerned, I think we're responsible for the impression of the judges themselves, because there's one aspect of public communication. But that communication with the public has been taken over by others, in this respect, from communication and the explanation of certain key subjects and what is said in public, this negative impression is being created. As for the relations between the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, this position is laid down by the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. Some time ago, 10 years ago, when such a relationship was applauded, without any critical remarks. I am pleased to ask this question, but it is before the question of the law and amending the law, rather than the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court could put it there in any way. As for the research done by the employees themselves, it's a novelty for me, rather than mentioning a study that was conducted, during which the minister was Ana Lovrin, who was surveyed by the parties in the courts. So, the people who had something in court. And the survey, which was conducted at different courts in the Republic of Croatia, was somewhere between 3.5 and 4. As for complaints by the parties, they certainly point to problems, but in order to be credible they would have to be established. And it often turns out that they're more or less subjective to some situation than the real situation. As for the protection of workers, the Supreme Court in 90% of the cases covered by labour law provides protection to workers. So I don't think the workers in the court system are unprotected. As for the number of judges, when reference is made to the Anglo-Saxon examples, it is forgotten that Britain has 25,000 judges working outside its basic profession. So, lawyers, other lawyers, who work afternoons as judges, and those numbers are never mentioned. As for mistrust in the work of the courts, it certainly is something that worries certainly every judge, but 1300 cases, million and 300 thousand cases, annually, new ones come to court. So, between these statistics and these grades there's probably truth somewhere in the middle. The question of legislative activity, I absolutely support it. I think there are a number of laws already in the Justice Department that will be able to reach security. One of these is the possibility of asking a previous question in cases that will be very large, to avoid individual trials, so that such a proposal already exists in the Ministry of Justice, it is made up of judges themselves and delivered to the Ministry of Justice. So it's not true that judges don't have feelings for what you'd say, a social moment. The application of the Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights, the problem with this Convention is the positive training of judges in the Republic of Croatia, which is that they apply national laws primarily, and the European Convention on Human Rights states that no national law applies, if contrary to the Convention. And it's a very difficult cleavage. And I have to say, that's the problem, but in our continental positive legal education, these are concepts that are not easy to skip. As regards the length of the proceedings, one information is missing in this report, which is the average duration of the proceedings to individual courts. I think that in courts, where there is one stable review of the case and a sufficient number of judges that such excerpts, i.e. such escapades of length of proceedings, are not too much. And as for practices and statutes for privatisation or privatisation during the Homeland War, everyone, including courts, and above all, the Supreme Court, is obliged to respect the positions of the Constitutional Court. And if the Constitutional Court has taken a certain position on this matter, we cannot change it, but we are obliged to respect it. So, here's so much and as far as property cards are concerned, let me just say that, it's a matter of law, and as far as my property card is concerned, it's done in the paper read 50 times. So whoever enters the paper archives will be able to see, and I don't think my property card really needs to be discussed in this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54997	We have one replica. Dear colleague Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54998	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. President of the Supreme Court. Well, here I am, reading your report in detail, and first of all, I want to say that we can certainly be satisfied that there are certainly among our judges and most of them are fair and correct and high-quality judges. I think it's hard to point a finger at someone and say that it's corrupt what my colleague Pernar was talking about. But I answered the line for something else. Your report here says what is the mission and what are the objectives of the judicial authority. One of these goals and yet listed here as the first is to ensure that all citizens must have the right and the possibility of access to the court. One piece of information that I would personally see here in this report, and now it is gone, so I ask you to take care of, in the 2017 report, that this may be found inside, which is how many courts of 77 established courts in the Republic of Croatia, how many are available for persons with disabilities, and when you mention the number of judges, I would also be interested, how busy is the person with disabilities in courts in the Republic of Croatia compared to the total number of employees? If it wasn't for law enforcement, then I'd be interested in whether the courts met the replacement quota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u54999	You can answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55000	We will certainly take into account, as far as I know, the courts I have been in, the access to people with disabilities is available, and the employment of people with disabilities on courts can be delivered either by a special report or by the next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55001	Thank you. This is what we've come to the end of the debate, and I'm the one who concludes it, and we'll vote when the conditions come to an end. Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2015, the applicant is the President of the Supreme Court, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2015. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 84 for, 7 abstentions, 21 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55004	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much for the opportunity to lay the foundation of Article 45. The Courts Act reports on the work of the judicial authority for 2015 and 2016. It is a bit absurd to do so at the end of 2017, especially in 2015, but I will try through the 2016 report on comparative data for both years, so I hope you will be able to see the work of the courts for both years, with this report of course very extensively and that neither space nor time allow me to present all the elements of this report, but that is what I have already said adopted on the basis of Article 45. The law on courts ordering the President of the Supreme Court to draw up and present once a year a report to this High House on the work of the judicial authority. The data contained here in this report for both 2015 and 2016 consists of data collected by the Supreme Court, data provided to the Supreme Court by the State Judicial Council, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the judicial academy, all high secondary courts, as well as special jumping courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb. I consider it necessary to say what is the fundamental role of the judicial authority, so first of all, to ensure that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia have equal access to the court, equality in the provision of legal protection, the independence of the judicial authority from the other two state authorities, to prevent illicit influences on the work of the judicial authority both in individual cases and in general in the organisation of the judicial authority, to decide on the responsibility of the judicial authorities themselves and its holders in relation to the conduct of the judicial duties, to ensure professional management of the courts, to be used in modern technologies as much as possible and also to think that, and I do not think that this report should seriously consider some incentive measures for the work of judges because the progress made over the past 10 years is more or less based on the enthusiasm of judges. And on their enhanced work so that we have come to the situation in which we are today, which is certainly much better than it was ten years ago and it would be necessary in cooperation with all the participants involved in creating regulations or even a framework for the work of courts to find the best solutions for the problems that are still emerging. I think it is also very important to complete the constitutional positioning procedure of the Supreme Court in a way that the Supreme Court is positioned as prescribed by the Constitution, so as a court which marks judicial practice. He can't do it now. In the criminal branch of the trial, because it appears as a court of appeal and in the civil branch of the court for a very liberal, almost completely free access to the Supreme Court in the civil court and that simply makes it impossible for the Supreme Court to decide in principle matters. When it comes to what happened in 2015, 2016 on the organisational plan, we can say that there are two stages in the work of the judicial authority. One is by the end of 2014 and the other is from the end, from the beginning of 2015. This is about reducing the number of courts so that in 2015 the number of courts by 256 was reduced by 77. We are talking about all courts in the Republic of Croatia with only one court being established in 2015, it is the Trade Court in Pazin. There has also been a change of jurisdiction in the second-degree trial in the civil branch of the trial in such a way that, as I would say, there is virtually no more local jurisdiction of the second-degree court in civil matters because the cases are computerised by one algorithm to all courts in the second degree in the Republic of Croatia by trying to evenly deploy those cases, first to dissipate the most burdensome courts, which are courts in large city centres, Split, Osijek, Rijeka and Zagreb, and that judges mostly work equally for the same salary. What happened now and this will be in the 2017 report that some of them, as I would say, are still solving some of the problems in that schedule by taking into account the total burdens of the courts and not the moment when it started and this is in January 2016. In all, the so-called so-called "Courtesy" was introduced to all courts. The e-script in different forms, but today only the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is not included in the e-File and is intensively working on this, so that by mid next year and the Supreme Court will be included in the e-script, which means that all judicial proceedings will be conducted electronically which, on the one hand, contributes to the transparency of courts, on the other hand, facilitates largely the management of courts in relation to cases with which we will have to do some analysis of these effects. What remains, therefore, the reduction in the number of courts in nature did not occur in relation to the organisational units because 126 permanent services were still left. So the courts that were abolished became permanent services of the basics, the courts themselves. And that's one situation that is very limited by the orderly work of courts and the organisation of courts and increases costs. And if enough funds are found for this, I think that the sooner the courts and the permanent services are to be united into one institution, with this increasing the costs of the courts, will increase the costs of the court's travel expenses, court officials, tenants, will increase the costs of the parties, which may be reduced by certain measures of the court days, but in any case, the reduction of the number of courts draws behind them and certain, certain financial efforts. When we talk about that fundamental work of courts at all, then it should be said that the total number of pending cases is reduced in 2016 by 512 thousand 872 cases to 467 thousand 693 cases. So the number, and in criminal terms, only in the Supreme Court has increased the number of cases solved by 64%. So other than the increase in the number of cases solved, so according to the system of connected vessels, the number of pending cases decreased, the number of judges also decreased. So in 2015 there were 1879 judges, in 2016. In 1830, I think of all the branches of the trial and in 2017 that number was further reduced by some hundred judges. So the general trend is to reduce the number of objects. I don't want to repeat it now, but I have to mention that before 2005, when we started our efforts to join the EU, the number of pending cases in courts was over a million-and-a-half. When we talk about the items received, then we will see that in 2015 657 thousand 920 new cases were received in a population of just under 4.5 million people and that in 2016 651, 1116 cases were received, so slightly less than in 2015 and that the number of cases solved was higher with a smaller number of judges. Comparing the structure of the case in 2015 and 2016 the structure of the case is mostly the same, so in terms of pending cases about 60%, 60 or 61% of the cases are civil objects, the commercial cases are about 12%, the criminal cases are about 7% or 8% and the infringements are about 17% and that is, the relationship was almost mirrored for 20115 and 2016. In respect of newly admitted cases, it is also, these relations are almost identical, so 54% of civil cases, 25 and 265 infringements, etc. were received in 2015 and 2016, respectively. So here we see that this one trend of the most, the kind of objects that come to the courts is angle. The same, and of course and thus the relationship of the type of objects, solved objects and their structure is almost identical in both years. According to the state of 2015 and 2016, 8458 persons were employed in courts at the end of 2016, counting judges, court officials and tenants. So that the number of employees in the courts in general was reduced compared to 2015. I already told the judges 1879 to 1830, the court advisors increased a few numbers from 630 to 650, but the number of employees was reduced from 620 to 590. In 2016, there are no newly admitted judges in the judicial systems. It was also the appointment of judges, but there were no persons outside the judicial authority who would have been appointed, so it was only the appointments through the progress of the judges, and 30 judges were resolved in 2015 and 30 judges in 2016. 49 judges. Mostly, because of the memory of, uh, the terms of retirement. Compared to the age structure of judges, almost 60% of judges are between 45 and 65. So it could be said that at this point, we do not have inexperienced judges in the Republic of Croatia. So, angle. Judges who are now on trial at all levels have enough judicial experience for dealings with judicial duties. And it may also be time to consider in some way changing the conditions for the progress of judges, to make these conditions more stringent to a certain extent, that is, to demand years of judicial internships or even an internship in the judiciary for appointment to several courts. But, at the same time, to intervene in the salaries of judges, above all, the salaries of judges of first degree courts, which I believe should be evened out. Namely, first-degree judges, regardless of whether they work, as judges of a administrative court, a commercial court or general courts, do the same work. And they're essentially working on the same problems and they're using the same procedural regulations and I think we should even it out. In this way, even perhaps the pressure of normal pressure and the desire of judges to progress would be reduced. In fact, there are a lot of countries that, through the system of wages, encourage the stay of courts, precisely because these long experience judges bring some security, bring a sense of stability, and in that case, in one atmosphere of security and for both parties and for younger colleagues. In the structure schedules of judges according to the courts, in civil cases, of course, since the largest number of cases in courts in civil society, 50% of judges are assigned to civil cases, 19% of judges in criminal cases is 20%, trade 8 and management 4. I'll talk about the judge's burden on the number of cases. In 2015 and 2016, relations did not change too much, so that judges would receive, therefore, 185 cases annually in 2015. 180 solved 189, or 185, in civil 391 received, solved 379, solved 431 cases, in administrative matters 285, solved 307, trade received 346 cases, solved 329 and the offenders received about 443 cases and solved 484 cases, that is, these statistics are conducted on the basis of the number of judges who actually work in courts. Because there are a number of judges who are not in the courts, because they have been assigned either to help in the capacity of court advisors to several courts and to the Ministry of Justice where they work as advisers, assistant ministers, etc. As regards the financial situation of the judicial authority between 2015 and 2016, there are no major shifts. So, angle. is the budget there approximately the same, something larger for 2016. a a positive shift was made in court debt, as in 2015 the debts of courts for intellectual services and other claims necessary for the settlement of profits amounted to 10 million 193 thousand 22 kuna, and in this year only 2 million 442 thousand 375.13 kuna. So that's where one positive shift was made. The maximum ratio of spending of the budget allocated to the judicial authority of the corner. It's the same. Therefore, the most costs are borne by staff expenditures, salaries and other staff expenditures, while all others, which amount to nearly a billion kuna, and the total budget of courts is about a billion and 200 million kuna. So the rest of this, from slightly less than billions to billions and 200 million is used for all other needs in courts. What we cannot on the part of the judicial authority see as satisfactory is that part of the means allocated to the education of judges. In fact, the budget is so well-conceived and the obligations of all the beneficiaries of the budget are to keep strict watch that the Law on the implementation of the state budget is not being violated, so that there is no way to overlay funds or savings in one position so that they can be spent on other positions other than within these individual positions, and therefore, it is not possible to allocate any larger resources for the education of judges. Thus, only 9550 kuna was approved in the County Court in Split for 2016, for the County Court in Zagreb 45 thousand kuna, for the County Court in Osijek 3610 kuna and for the County Court in Rijeka 4000 kuna. It is certainly something that is not enough that in these dynamic times changes in the rules and duties of judges to deal with and across, I extend the scope of law rather than national law. And that dictation of European law is growing from day to day. Well, this would also require the possibility for judges to become familiar with liquids, the EU acquis and other supranational courts' case-law to increase these funds. Within the judicial authority, several information systems operate which, there is a distinction for a mistrial and secondly, for all other regular trials, such as an e-registration, then an information system for the management and operation of court cases in criminal courts, a common information system of land books and catasters and registers, court registers and registers of SupraNova. SupraNova is a register of case-law governed by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, in which all the Supreme Court rulings are held after anonymous and indexing the key decisions of the courts, other courts, in particular second-degree courts, so that the Court of Appeal is one significant base of case law. He can object to that base and that it is too bulky and that it may sometimes be non-transparent but between the transparency requirement, so that any decision can be found on the Internet and some selection, editorial decision-making when the system is set up, he chose this first value compared to this one. So, as I have already said, these computer systems of court management began to be introduced in 2015 and their introduction except for the Supreme Court was completed in 2016. System information is something that will not stop because the need for new technologies imposes it. Except I'd like to say here that this introduction of a system isn't self-sufficient because maintaining computer systems is very expensive. It is mainly related to the payment of copyright and anyone planning information and who is working on it we will warn on it. And it is necessary to provide quite a lot of resources at the annual level because otherwise these systems become very fast and they become, in a way they do not speed up the management processes but only slow them down. I don't know whether to go to trial or to... All right, as regards the criminal branch of the trial, there has been a reduction in the number of cases with regard to 2015 and 2016, so the inflow of the case is slightly smaller and the number of cases being resolved in criminal cases at all levels is higher except in war crimes cases where the number of pending cases is significantly higher than those in those cases. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The reason is that, in fact, although it is lawfully allowed not to conduct a trial of absentia because, according to the rules of criminal proceedings, as soon as such a defendant appears and the whole procedure is to be conducted from the beginning, and then it is a great waste, an unnecessary waste of time, because all proceedings must start over. So these are the cases that stand and wait for the defendant to become available to the court and, of course, can't work, and that's why the difference between a large number of pending cases, perhaps it would be a way to lead these cases as in one particular record, and in some ways they don't burden the system, although of course we can't, if they won't be statistically shown that we can think that they don't exist, they will be there and they will burden the system and it will be very complex cases, which are actually very complicated and require a lot of work of courts or specialised judges on these cases. With regard to the movement of the case before the county courts in the criminal branch of the trial, we can see that the number of cases received from 2012 to 2016 increased, from, say, 16 900 in 2016 to 23 333, and with that solved almost in 2016 and 2015, the number of cases which were in the inflow, so the backlogs are to a certain extent the rest of the previous years. What is the problem and what is indicated in this report is that the courts are not evenly burdened with the number of cases in the criminal branch of the trial because, especially in the first instance of the trial, it is not possible to reach these measures to distribute the cases because, of course, the hearings and parties have to be held in the civil court, the courts, except exceptionally, do not judge in the public hearing but only in the sittings, and then, of course, it is easier to send to the courts who fall into the jurisdiction of other courts than the situation in the criminal court, so that in this case, we cannot compare some of these measures, but the inequality, the burden of courts in the criminal branch of the trial is evident so that almost 27% of all cases in Zagreb are waste from the County court in Croatia and then followed by Varaz, Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Rijeka, Rijeka, etc. As regards the civil branch of the trial, it of course covers the largest number of cases which Croatian courts are dealing with, and during this period, there has also been an increase in the number of cases resolved in relation to the cases received, with the fact that the civil branch of the trial naturally includes the jurisdiction of several courts. It covers the jurisdiction of municipal courts, county courts, commercial courts, the High Court of Commerce, administrative courts and the High Administrative Court. If we look at the movement of the case only in municipal courts in 2015 and 2016, we will see that 271 252 cases were received in 2015, i.e. 276 657 cases in 2016, and in those years it was solved almost every year for 20 thousand cases more than it was received. With the number of judges in 2016 reduced by 30 judges in municipal courts. So, when we look at jurisdiction towards the re-loading of municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia, we now need to know that we only have 22, so the number of cases may be increased by individual courts precisely because the courts have united several courts in their area. At the Municipal Civil Court, nearly 25 of all civil cases in the Republic of Croatia, at the Municipal Court in Split about 10, the Municipal Court in Rijeka about 8%, Pula 6, etc., etc., at the Municipal Court in Novi Zagreb, only 5% of the cases in the Republic of Zagreb, and the question arises whether this court should have been established for those 5% of the cases at all because on the one hand it increased the burden of the County Court in Velika Gorica, who as a second-degree court in charge of the Municipal Court in Novi Zagreb and he did not withdraw any significant number of cases from the Municipal Court in Zagreb. But since I think that the purpose of courts is to exist because of citizens, where legal protection can be achieved is provided faster and more effectively then perhaps such financial efforts should be done, regardless of whether in an analysis or in comparison between courts there is always this opportunised rational reason for some courts to be established. In 2015, 81 119 were admitted to the county courts in relation to civil cases of the second stage. So let's compare to 260 thousand cases that come to courts, 1/4...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55005	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, the time has expired, so you can proceed every time after the debate has been held, and then you can further explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55006	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55007	We'll do the replicas first, then we'll take the breaks. Let's go in a row. He's my first colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55008	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Sessa, the judiciary, the judges, the judiciary should be the image of justice in every society. The confidence of citizens in the judiciary and the judiciary has been greatly undermined, citizens do not believe in the Croatian judiciary today according to all polls. You are one of the people who opposed the judge's security check while you were president of the Association of Croatian Judges, you strongly opposed it. The initiative of former Minister of Sprlje and MOST to ensure that the judges' security check is guaranteed, not only by jump judges but by all judges, new judges and those who move to a higher level. We see in the recent events surrounding the Agrokor case that it actually turns out that Agrokor case isn't jumping objects. That he's leaving, I think it's for the Zagreb County Court. We see from this case that it is very important, that judges who will be tried in such proceedings do not sit together with politicians, with lawyers, with other coffee reps, because they are reasonably suspected that judgments are made in these places, not where they should be... Let me just ask you, what's your position on the judge's security clearance, are you willing to do it in order to increase trust in the judiciary and the judges in society? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55009	So you can respond every time to a replica, with 2 minutes, here from a place or you can group, when everything is finished, whatever you want. ... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55010	My position on security checks, Your Honor, my position on security checks has not been changed. The point is, it's not a security check. The essence of the security check, i.e. as set out in the law, is the inability of the one to be checked and to be excluded from any appointment for security purposes, that there is no possibility of an examination of that assessment at all. So, that's an assessment, by the security service and those to express myself to the People's Amen and our Father. We think that since there is a possibility of investing legal medicine even to the Constitutional Court in the process of appointing judges, then such checks should be considered. Because they are not in any way in the hands of the judicial authority. And that's what I was saying as president of the association, since I haven't changed my mind, that's what I'm saying as President of the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55011	Another replica, dear colleague of Sladolev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55012	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Sessar, I have one question, what do you think about the initiative of former Minister of Sprlje and why it is that stopping this initiative about publishing the property cards of the judges, given that citizens in the judiciary's opinion is really thrown and that if we went to Ban Jelačić Square and asked the citizens what they think of our judiciary, do you think that this initiative in the world of new judgments, the last one we had in some way managed to rate our judiciary. Would it contribute to transparency, given that we, as parliamentary representatives and ministers, must perform our own property card. What makes you think that they are in a different position than we are and that you generally think about this initiative and why it stops it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55013	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55014	Dear Mr. Representative, same as before, therefore, as the late Vlado Gotovina said, about the same always the same. I think they're practically public, because anyone can look into the property card and according to the Access Information Act, they'll get it. What our practice has shown is that full insight into the property card and interpreting information about this property card is a problem, because they are misrepresented in public. So, how, I think the system as it is now arranged is quite enough and it is compatible with a lot of EU countries, except for countries that have entered this last 10-nation wave. As far as corruption is concerned, a corporate survey has been carried out in Switzerland and Croatia. In Switzerland, 14% of citizens do not trust the judiciary and in Croatia 70. When the same poll asked people how much they had to do, they personally or someone they knew with corruption in the judiciary, in Switzerland they replied that there were 6% of people, 6% of the answers, and in Croatia 3. So that perception I think is one thing, and that really is the situation quite different, but of course everything can contribute to the perception and the behavior of the judges and I am fully in agreement with you, that there must be criteria and must be for judges absolutely the strictest possible and I've said it before, and I'm saying it and now and I'm always publicly so... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55015	Third replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55016	Mr. Sessa, your court statements, the judges, look so great, I don't know if we live in the same country. Really, I don't know if you're familiar with the fact, you're referring to people's perceptions. That the main brake of the development of the Republic of Croatia is mistrust in the judiciary. 2/3 The Croatian people have no confidence, these are the key things you need to talk about, not the flow of honey and milk. We won't even talk about the inequality of the verdict. Someone is allowed to be in traffic, irrelevantly, whether it was in the sea or, kill two people and be freed, and someone has one percent alcohol that's not allowed, but it's going to end up in prison, well, it's not that level. Many who are unacceptable to people and cannot understand and trust the judges at all. The judge should be protected, i.e. It should be an independent judiciary. But you can't get an unequal judiciary and don't talk about how much we lose. as much in international courts as, e.g. in Strasbourg in court loses Croatia's verdict, a country based on which you judges make simple Croatian economics, human potential does not develop solely because of lack of confidence in the judiciary. That's the first and the most basic thing. And how many items he's been waiting for for years. How many of those who took millions in their pocket just peeled potato judgments. He's been peeling potatoes for a couple of days. It's familiar stuff. It's not made up. Therefore, no honey and milk flow, just go back to reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55017	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55018	I'm being respected, MP, I think, if it were really, really, really, what I said, I certainly don't ignore the question of perception, and also, also, I'd like to take the opportunity here to take advantage of individual judgments that the public didn't accept and these last ones that I don't want to speak of specifically or may be just inadmissible judgments. Therefore, they are neither a caselaw nor an opinion, finally the Court’s view of a part or a phenomenon, and only when they become powerful will we be able to say if now that court has sinned. Therefore, let us not create an atmosphere of final, inability to change what we cannot accept and there should indeed be a little more careful in such statements and especially in all those who in some way create a public change because the negative consequences of such action are far-reaching. So the judgments you're talking about are inadmissible and therefore cannot be in any way any indication of the court's position. Only when they become powerful will they be, then they can be discussed as academic or any level. But as the old Latina said, and by a powerful verdict, black becomes white and white becomes black. And it simply postulates in the rule of law that we must learn about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55019	Thank you. Let's move on. The fourth is a colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55020	Thank you very much. Mr. Sessa, you have just now claimed that the property cards of judges can be obtained at least here in the Assembly, but you did not show your property card when you appointed the Justice Committee. Namely, there is a question in the public that you had a business relationship with Agrokora in 2005 so please, if you can clarify this business relationship to make sure that we do not find you in conflict of interest especially given this legal misunderstanding that we have seen in recent days and that, because today we also have a parliamentary crisis. I think that these property cards should be available because here are the things that would actually help the public regain that trust in institutions and not lose it more and more every day. You also mentioned in your discussion that there should be some effective measures to improve the work of judges. So let's say an effective measure could be a solution for judges who don't make judgments within the time limit. Now, that would be a very effective measure. For example, we have labour disputes in Croatia that must all be ruled within 6 months, which have been being dragged for years and for decades that have not been resolved. Well, I'm sure if it were to introduce a resolution of judges who don't comply with the deadlines, I think all these disputes would be dealt with in a very, very good way to increase the efficiency of the courts. Well, here's your obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55021	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55022	As far as this question is concerned, it's not the subject of this agenda item, so I won't talk about it, otherwise my property card was available on the board, so everyone saw it, so there's no need to discuss it at all. As far as resolution is concerned, the judges, the judges, they're being held in a strict manner, they're being resolved because of what they're doing and what they're doing. It's true, labour legislation is slow. Part of it and because access to courts and seeking courts in determining and protecting the rights of workers is very scrupulous and is trying in every situation not to damage anyone, especially the workers. But the issue of the strict resolution of judges is also the question to what extent, when will be the limit to which the judge will be relieved of his duties because of the non-compliance of his duties, certainly one or two cases cannot be the reason. But I certainly agree that labour legislation, or the working part of the judiciary, requires serious reform in order to speed up the work on these cases. I want to warn you that speed isn't always quality. Because at the rate we may lose all those rights either workers or employers will lose all those procedural rights that they now have because each other doesn't always go in parallel.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55023	The 5th replica of a respected colleague, Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55024	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Sessa, as we can see from 2008 to 2016, the number of courts with 256 n 77 has been reduced, which is very rational. However, I am interested in whether this financial reality has also been achieved in this regard. Since we see that in 2011, we have fewer judges, you mentioned that, so almost 100 judges are less than in 2011 and the number of cases has been reduced from 512 thousand to 467 thousand, however, there are no cases of land library and court register. So when we see the burden on the judge here in statistics it says that it's over 636 cases in the period from 2011 to 2016, it's a considerable burden on that number of judges. So is there a possibility that more judges might still be hired to avoid actually being so burdensome and that the number of cases and solved cases is as high as possible, given that in some branches we see that, that certain cases are old, 30% of the cases are older than 3 years old, which still worries about age?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55025	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55026	Thank you. I think that and deeply I think that the interest of the Croatian state and the judicial authorities is not to increase the number of judges. I think it's our interest to reduce the number of judges and if what the judges wouldn't do, they shouldn't work in courts or waste their time doing someone else's. So, court counselors and court officials. This reduction of judges has led to a reduction in the number of courts, whether it has led to some major financial breakthroughs. I can't answer that because no analysis has been done yet. There are certainly even some grades. However, they are so empirical, they did not ultimately implement that it could lead to increased costs of courts due to travel costs, the transfer of judges, the travel of judges, the accommodation of judges outside the place of residence, etc. However, if we have already reached that level to reduce the number of courts to 77, perhaps some courts that may not have their rational purpose in the area of municipal courts might be reconsidered, but they have, in view of their position, these are primarily island courts, perhaps some courts where bad communication are, say, Slavonski Brod, Požega, etc. So there may be a place to do something, but I essentially think that the trend of reducing the number of judges in Croatia is actually positive, and that, not being second to the number of judges in Europe, although this is not taking into account jurisdiction and not taking into account, be careful, there are always some countries that cannot be compared according to legal systems. But I would love to see the number of judges shrink, because then their work would be more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55027	Thank you very much. Replication to exposure, Mr. Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55028	Thank you. Here is the President-in-Office of the Supreme Court, I would like to point out one problem that is present in Istria County, with regard to the difficult functioning of the judicial authorities in relation to the fact that all the judicial authorities in Istria have headquarters in Pula, while in other cities there are only permanent services, all of which leads to the creation of additional costs for both the parties and the state budget. Because the Registrar's Rules of Procedure is prescribed to be held in the seat of the court itself, so it often happens that both the on-call judge and the officer and the party and the defenders and the authorised prosecutors are traveling to Pula, although some of the permanent services are far closer to them. So I would kindly ask your opinion on the above issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55029	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55030	Thank you very much. Well, here's the part I might have answered in the previous answer. Certainly an analysis of certain judicial areas in this regard is needed although, and I will now say, this goes to the expense of judges and presidents of the courts. I think it should be more open to court days. So, the situation in which a judge from one court goes to another place and conducts what he has to, so a court hearing, and that's actually a drug on which the court approaches citizens, and not that and that it's possible to do that, that the costs there are much less. That used to be done a long time ago. When I was a young judge, it was a regular phenomenon, and I think it's one of the solutions. And where these measures cannot achieve access, the right to access the parties' courts to just approach the establishment of courts there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55031	Thank you very much. The last replica, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55032	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. So here you are talking about technical problems, the problems of the judiciary, the problems of the courts that are badly set up and some other things that point to a pretty big problem in the judiciary. There is one definition of the judiciary, legislation in Croatia that says that we have the judiciary as a spider's web, it is caught by tiny flies, and through it the beetles fly. The proof of this is also the other day of the show Open, which was attended by Judge Turudici and lawyer Nobilo, who talked about major affairs. One of the affairs is the Spice affair and former Minister Polancec, who has 40,000 pages of the file, which lasts some 90 years and is estimated to be over at 12 or 13 years. So then there's the Agrokor affair, which has 100,000 pages of the file, and the assessment that such a process should take about 20 years. I think it's scary and it says enough where the Republic of Croatia is, what's going on here and that really those little flies that for a hundred kunas, even that bear dog was very quickly convicted, even though no one had yet translated what he was barking about. That lady maid ended up in jail for some change, and these bumblebees don't even feel that net they fly through. I'm interested in when the judiciary will be truly independent, when it will be effective, for everything equally for the maids and for the Bear and for the great affairs and when it will end this policy influence on the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55033	Thank you very much. Otherwise, the bumblebees are residents of Vodnjan, so there wouldn't be an agreement on what you were saying, a misunderstanding. It's a typical name of the people of Vodnjana bumber, so there's no misunderstanding. Mr. Sessa, please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55034	Thank you very much. So, I think this question that you asked is a question that would be better asked by a state attorney. So, the state's attorney takes the case to court, he decides on its scope, and then judges with what he's brought a state's attorney dealing in court. Therefore, the case of Spice, the case of Agrokor, if it comes to a court, etc., is primarily the decision of a state lawyer in which such a case will be brought. It is also a matter of some state-owned legal tactics to which they wish to capitulate the court with one or more cases. Yesterday there was a conference gathering at the Westin Hotel and there the state's attorney agreed and everyone agreed that the jurisdiction of jumpers from the state's attorney's offices should be narrowed down to several acts and that they should not have more than twenty cases a year. So that's how you can secure it. And the comparisons between these and those cases are not quite appropriate it cannot be compared to one of the cases in which it was done in trade and taking over a company with some simple object and to conclude, the dog is not meant to be, but is a tried person who has allowed the dog to bark so much and bother the neighbors. So that's what happened in that case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55035	Thank you very much. Would anyone like to take a word for the board? Mr. Orsat Milenić is not here. Okay. State Secretary at the Department of Justice? There's no need. I'm opening a debate. First there goes the club debate, Mr. Milorad Pupovac in front of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55037	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court. According to everything that comes to us to use an expression that has been very relevant in recent months about this crisis, which today is dedicated to this debate in the Parliament of good. will the Croatian judiciary is not particularly high-quote. It's either a good voice or a good reputation. And that doesn't mean that it fits the facts as well as in the economy doesn't necessarily mean that it fits the situation of things with facts like it doesn't have to mean in politics either, but it certainly is some starting point. The first report is exhausted and brings some indicators that were better than in 2016 than in 2015 as regards the number, the reduction in the number of cases, and in some other indicators. Overall, therefore, during the period during which reforms were carried out both at the time of accession of the European Union and after the accession of the European Union, certain reform measures have been taken which have resulted in some progress during a certain period but after that, we have also noticed some forms of stagnation. The reforms regarding the number of courts were extensive, they were long-prepared, they were long-running and they were dragonous. The number of courts has been radically reduced. There are some judicial services left in different places where there were courts that now allow citizens a slightly more favourable approach to courts than it would otherwise be the case for someone from Lower Lapce to travel to Zadar, for example, or Gospić. However, we have seen that in some cases such as the County of Istria, according to the 2015 report, this thing brings some difficulties and requires a certain revolution, which means that it is seen whether such a single dragon reduction was best in all cases. And I'd love to, if you could, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, say a few words about what the Supreme Court's present opinion is about that, too. I remember the enthusiasm of the State Judicial Council with which we performed when it was the reorganization and the way of elections in the State Judicial Council, especially us who made up the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations with the EU which we had active participation in the whole process. There's not much left of that enthusiasm today. The judicial academy also represented a new and very important thing for improving professionalism, improving the modernisation, knowledge and knowledge of judges and lifelong education. We can see, however, that this does not bring the necessary results to the extent that we expected it to be. It is absolutely certain that certain procedures for the evaluation of the work of the courts, judges, have been improved in the period before 2010, that surveillance has been improved but continue to be promoted due to influences that have nothing to do with the evaluation or supervision as can be seen in the case of elections under way for a court or for a judicial institution here in Zagreb. In this respect, it seems to me that it is extremely important that, once again, not only the Supreme Court, but the judicial authority in general should focus on the assessment of the extent to which the reforms undertaken by 2010, 2011 and where these results have become weaker at some point, i.e. become lost. The reduction in the number of cases compared to nearly 2 million in 2004 when I remember that we have started communication processes with the European Parliament and with colleagues from the EU, which is, of course, a significant progress up to 500 000 not full as far as we now have. But that's still a big number of 500 grand. The length of the proceedings is also still extremely large in some groups of cases. The appearance of some others, the increase in some other cases such as the 2016 performance, whose percentage is on the rise, is an important indicator of the dynamics of legal cases that appear in our society and are extremely relevant to us as advocates only because of citizens and their material status, but at the same time both the economy and its situation. The issue of efficiency in doing so, the issue of justice in doing so is also extremely relevant. In 2016, out-of-court proceedings have not progressed and could. And they'd probably reduce the number of pending cases in general, in some areas of the judiciary they are, but most of them they're not. You touched the question, indirectly touched the question of the relationship between the Supreme Court and other matters, above all, the Constitutional Court. Indirectly, I may be misreading it, but the powers of the Supreme Court rarely come into conflict with the powers conferred upon themselves by the Constitutional Court. And we really think that the Supreme Court should strengthen its powers as a Supreme Court when it comes to overseeing court practice in the country and overseeing the exercise of lawfulness when the courts themselves are. In this regard, too, and above all, his Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure could at some point organise a thematic debate when it comes to such a topic. It is not good when there is a conflict between institutions in the state or when there is a takeover of powers from a part of an institution from another institution, and in this case it has happened at earlier periods. I hope this doesn't happen during this period. As far as the perception of the citizens I'm going with, of course, it doesn't have to be reality itself, but it is an extremely important and extremely significant indicator. And in this respect, the research carried out in 2016 by independent institutions as regards the perception of citizens is even more interesting that the perception of the employees themselves is in the courts, and it is not good. So that's about what my colleague Bunjac says, our citizens think of the Parliament pretty badly. Which would only be if we started talking. Now, if employees of courts in judicial institutions have a more critical view than citizens in a whole series of issues, then it is indeed a serious and significant problem. Therefore, they do not complain about information, they do not complain about pay, the key issues they are complaining about, the key issues they note, which they consider to be the main culprits for violating the effectiveness of the judicial system are the following, and so are we, the frequent amendments to the law and frequent amendments to the legislative frameworks. The frequent changes in the legislative frameworks actually contribute to legal instability and legal disorder. We, too, would have to imagine in the House together with the Government whether it was something that was good and what it was for. Secondly, it is interesting that one of the main problems with the perception of employees in courts is the influence of politics and corruption. Therefore, by means of political power and influence, by means of financial or monetary power. If that's what the employees themselves see, then it's extremely worrying. The third element is, of course, the fact that in courts, employees think that citizens tend to be litigators and expectations of courts of what is unreal is also one of the reasons that makes the judiciary insufficiently efficient. What to do in this respect and how to create a different culture is a serious question for all of us and then, of course, for the citizens. The issue of media and how media are infiltrated in judicial proceedings and in judicial matters and in judicial cases is an additional burden that judges see as a problem, i.e. court employees see as a problem. And that in certain cases reporting to the media has certainly not helped in any way by employees of the courts or judges themselves. So as many as 64% of judicial employees say that an obstacle is more effective in the operation of the corruption system, as much as 64%. Of course, some cases that are known to the public strengthen such impressions and those who are recent and those who are less recent. What to do to change this, to change the fact that without a stable, independent, professional judiciary cannot be guaranteed and guaranteed the achievement of fundamental constitutional values such as the rule of law, such as equality and as equality, and we are faced with that fact that people think that judicial authority is unable to guarantee these three fundamental constitutional values, nor the rule of law, nor equality, nor equality in different areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55038	Thank you very much, thank you, Mr. Pupovac. Time's up. You have 3 replicas, however. Time's up, you have three replicas. [[What am I going to do with them?]] First Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55039	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pupovac, therefore you are absolutely right, unfortunately the reputation of the legislative body in public is not very high. Equally, the reputation of the judgmental authority is not high. This contributes to a lot of factors but our duty is here, we have received here a report on the work of the Supreme Court and it is our duty to warn about those points of that report that directly concern the lives of citizens. In fact, it is happening and will happen that citizens will still be given the tasks that are old, the executive procedures that are 10 to 15 years old. Why is that happening? 15 years ago, when we joined the EU, we miraculously showed that we had solved over 500 thousand cases, only to show that statistics were good. That information can't even be seen in this report. These are data on the number of pending cases which have been archived as executive objects. Because the moment they came to court, when the seal was struck, that the object was received, that the seal on the solution of the execution was thought to have been completed. And it was only then that he started. And these are all the executives in our courts. This happened at the time of Minister Vesna Škara Ozbolt when those 500 thousand appeared as solved items. Now we have two problems, judges need to solve these cases when an executive appears, but they're not motivated to solve these cases because they don't get into theirs to say score. And on the other hand, we have citizens who are going to be faced with, who are otherwise in a difficult situation and who are going to be faced with these objects and who are 15 years old. And that's the problem this report isn't talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55040	Thank you very much. Mr. Pupovec's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55041	Dear colleague Žagar, colleague Shuker mentioned creative accounting in some companies, globally, and you are now paying attention to creative bookkeeping on judicial cases with us. Yeah, we know that's what it was, but it's not helping. It seriously disrupts what's called a goodwill or a reputation or a good voice. And it doesn't help citizens, and it doesn't help establish the rule of law and the rule of law. The examples you make of these are just some of them, there are more of them. But about that, if we did some deep analysis, if we used another term that wasn't reserved just for this topic, it would certainly show that the thresholds or the rest of it still exist. Whether in this one or in another court, it's hard to say, but there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55042	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55043	Here, you're a respected fellow Pupovac in his debate several times touched the perceptions of the judiciary in public, which you said, I'll tell myself later, the least I can say is that it's not good. I believe that we should speak clearly about this, but also, our duty and obligation, in which way we can and by what measures help the judicial system, tomorrow, to be more effective, more efficient and better. So I'd like to point out one fact, that in fact for too long a number of years, we're not introducing new young people into our judicial system through court drills, but that's also true of the State's Attorney's Office. It produces several negative consequences, and above all it makes it impossible for young people to start developing their capacities, their careers, but it also prevents new young people from coming, so I'm going to let myself tell myself, not burdened people in the justice system. If we were to allow young people to get a job at the annual level, I think there's... We can talk about the number of 50 to 60 new employees, however, I do not want to say that it is for each year, but that it is one process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if that were one of those measures, where we should be in this House too, keeping accounts and concerns, thus allowing the normal and uninterrupted functioning of the judicial authority in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55044	Replication response, Mr. Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55045	I thank my colleague for your replica. It is a pity that the number of court advisers and according to a report which can be seen both in 2015 and 2016 in the total number of courts. It's a shame that the indicators that speak of age structure are also unfavourable. It is also a pity that there is another indicator, another indicator, which is favourable to what we call gender representation in judicial institutions, which become mainly female professions, but also has another adverse side of it, has the opposite. And that's that women go there because it's a less paid job. It wasn't like that once. And that's another reason why the judiciary is in a state where it is. The state is not helping him to the extent necessary. The fact that the State's Attorney's Office is now receiving donations from other countries, in order to have the information equipment it needs, is good if it's some kind of software, but it's getting hardware for it. And if we weren't able to provide the means for it, not even an adequate prosthetic, it's something that can't be good. I agree with you, we have contributed to this perception being weak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55046	Thank you. Three replicas and one last, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55047	Thank you, well-respected Pupovac, in your presentation of the results of an official survey conducted by independent bodies, an international one, which finally accepted only the Ministry of Justice in which you presented a shocking data, which is that the employees in the judiciary have an even worse view of their work than the citizens. And that they believe in more than a percentage of citizens that politics affects courts and that the judiciary is corrupt. And that's really amazing, because you would actually expect these people to at least defend their profession in principle and they're even more critical. This shows two very interesting things, one of these, namely, that the vast majority of judges are on the same side as the citizens. So they're on the same side, and the problem, therefore, is obviously in a minority of judges, which, and we could say, is exactly the minority that makes decisions and is in the most responsible positions. And on the other side of the bed, the question is, how are they even more critical? So we see very simply from this research that you have stated, namely, they see these cases with their own eyes every day, they hear about them, and what is worst of all, they are personally offered this. So the first thing, they are personally offered bribes and what benefits, and on the other hand, political pressure is personally exerted on them. And that's what's worst of all. So the judges, that poll that was therefore independent, and the secret sent us a very strong appeal, not to say cry out to do something, to sort out the situation in the judiciary. And it is indeed someone would have to finally take very seriously into their consciousness and take some reforms that will dare to say not only concrete but also very extensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55048	Thank you, too. Mr. Pupovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55049	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, that these studies show that moral awareness among most who have been surveyed is particularly high in law enforcement. Because they actually contribute to their own criticism of their own profession to make it come to mind and contribute to defending it from the influences that violate independence, on the one hand, professionalism and in many elements, then constitutionality. And that's an extremely significant indicator. The second question now is what will be done by the legislator, what will be done by the Supreme Court within its powers and what can the Supreme Court do within its powers, above all, with reports and above all by evaluations and revaluations. But it is quite certain and of course what other state institutions will do, other state bodies that should determine where and when things that are inadmissible happen, which, according to perception, and most of the employees in judicial institutions, are recognised as deviating. I didn't say syncope. I said deviation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55050	Thank you very much. And now we open the debate and Mr. Bunjac on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55052	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Sessa, dear colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about the state of the judicial authority for 2015 and 2016 and, in general, at the introduction, we can all believe that the most important question is citizens, the most complaints, the most messages we received were addressed to the situation in the judiciary, and we also see this from the work of the official bodies, as is the case. The Assembly Committee on Presentations and Appeals of Citizens, or let's say that report we discussed yesterday by the Ombudsman, means the judiciary is obviously problem number one in the Republic of Croatia. And we would almost dare say that if this situation were to be well, if the situation in the judiciary had been settled, that we would practically solve half of the problems in the Republic of Croatia. As already mentioned here, the poor situation in the judiciary is also confirmed by official polls that those employed by individual agencies, such as those made by international institutions and even by the Ministry of Justice, and we have seen that a very poor assessment of the judiciary is given not only by citizens but by even more by the employees of the judicial authorities themselves. The information that maybe we should point out right now at the end of it all, and we haven't heard it from a colleague of the Pupovac is that 25% of the employees in the judiciary are looking for another job and it would be very happy to find it. So they actually want to get out of that system because they just don't feel good in it. What's the main culprit for such a bad condition? Well, as we've heard, one of the first is the longevity of court proceedings most citizens consider a major problem. It is interesting to point out that Croatia is second in the number of judges in Europe, according to the population, and by the percentage of investment in Europe the fourth. So by that we're very good, but by the number of unsolved objects we're just the bottom. We, for example. We have up to 45 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, and we need 386 days on average for a first-degree decision while Denmark has 6 judges, England has 3 judges, France 5 judges per 100,000 inhabitants and for first-degree rulings they need a few dozen days. So after practically a few weeks, you have first-degree decisions. Here I would like to point out that according to the settled practice of the European Court of Human Rights, any trial, any trial that lasts 5 years constitutes a violation of human rights. So this is about human rights violations and we're almost witnessing today that there's no trial that lasts less than five years. So here you're breaking some kind of elemental civility. And we have in Croatia hundreds of thousands of objects that last for more than 10 years, tens of thousands of objects that last for more than 20 years, and this is such a terrible situation that in fact this criterion should have been seen as a criterion when entering the EU Croatia in no way should it have been admitted into that international organisation. Here I am personally, seeing that here is my colleague from Medjugorje Topolko, here we are in Međimurje, just today a conviction for murder has been passed, watch out for murder, first-degree verdict after seven years. Do we really have to see such things daily that such injustice exists in Croatian society? So we have briefly said judges on export and the results of the judiciary are nothing. Another problem that is highlighted is the impact of policy on courts and there is therefore the problem that the State Judiciary Council is elected either by political or by an interesting similarity and the same policy is implemented on lower levels, so judges are not judges, at least they are in positions, but political commissioners are mostly from the HDZ ranks. The judiciary, as we could see, is helping to insist on the parliamentary majority this year and members of the ruling parties are never convicted. So I don't want to talk about it again now, but enough to mention the cases of Ivo Sanader, Nadan Vidosevic, Cobankovic, Ferenček, Bandic, Mamic, Vrdoljak, Sauche and others. Well, then maybe we have a symbolic picture of all of that county court president who's in Opatija having dinner with Eve Sanader and running a trial against him. So that's just one little figure that everything in Croatia can happen. Or do we have the case of Saša Radovic's whistler against former Cermak's general who was not allowed to represent the defence, or his defense is limited to 1 minute, beware he had the right to present his defense in 1 minute without a court record and then he who accused him of smuggling oil into the former Republika Srpska province that he had never paid taxes to the state and he was sentenced to 2 years in prison. He who has been decorated by the honorable Croatian army and has been decorated four times. Well, that's justice for you, then, in the Republic of Croatia. It is also a well-known case of Ankica Lepej, who in her time exposed corruption at the top of the state, being persecuted by judicial authorities even today. Here's another eclectic example of the court's situation. We also have cases that policy requires courts to pass judgments against damages to the Republic of Croatia, especially when damages are sought from the state budget. I remind you of that privatisation fund case for coupon privatisation when they got the verdict. And at the time when compensation was due to them, the Supreme Court abolished the verdict and just illegally returned it to lower facts. And now you tell me, Mr. Sessa, who runs the Supreme Court, do you think in such a way that any more common sense in Croatia will invest anything? Will anyone who has money come to Croatia and when he sees your actions like this say that here is good I will invest, so of course he won't, so he's not crazy, so he won't invest one lip because he knows he's throwing his money into the sea a lot of sharks and he'll never see him again. Moreover, he himself will probably end up still in prison like Mr. Radovic just because he dared seek some kind of justice. Also, the big problem is the costs of court proceedings, the same two-thirds of Croatian citizens consider it a problem. And the main cause of ineffective and invaluable justice and long-term proceedings is barrage tariffs. So the legal fees are 100% times as much as the judge's, imagine that, they're 100 times more than the judge's, and for that reason, the court's work is hardly discriminated against and those judges who can escape into law practice. However, it is very important to say that among lawyers only once again one very small group of them is reserved to buy creams, to take money, and 40% of lawyers actually do not have enough even for so-called. Cold drive. The problem is, it's 1994. The Law on Attorneyship determines the level of tariffs to transfer the state to the bar and the abuse of powers arises. Since lawyers have set their own tariffs, and since 1994, they have illegally paid several tens of billions of kunas, tens of them, while some claim hundreds of billions of kunas. Where did that money end, can we know? We can't. Why? Because the judge's property cards can't be seen. And secret accounts, custody bills, even less. In custody accounts in Croatia, 76 billion kuna. Who owns that 76 billion kuna? Is it Mr. Bull, or is it me? Maybe I have that kind of money. And someone does. And who's that? Maybe they're lawyers, maybe. Here we see that there are lawyers in Croatia who buy themselves five newspapers, so whatever newspaper you open the property of a lawyer. It can be free, morning, globe, I don't know, always... Same lawyer on the front page. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, who owns Croatia, who is the true master? Well, gentlemen, lawyers and, of course, judges, but only the ones on top. Here's to briefly illustrate the situation in the Croatian judiciary with the legal tariffs. If the value of the dispute in Croatia is 2,000 euros, the legal tariff is 2,300 euros, do you know how much is in Germany? 300 euros. And so it can happen that lawyers for one court date for half an hour earning 100,000 kuna. For hours' work, 100,000 kuna. If it's a big dispute, why not? And what's even worse is every time they show up at the hearing. In Germany, the fee is obtained regardless of how many hearings there are, and in Croatia the fee is obtained per hearing. And is it reasonable, then, to suspect that judges and lawyers are united against their clients on an agreed basis for interest? We also heard that corruption is a big problem, that judges themselves claim it's a big problem, 70% of judges claim to know about corruption. So how come no one has ever been convicted of this corruption in the judiciary before today? How is that possible? People are being tried, I don't know, dog barks, woman begs, two graphites on the wall are being tried, and that 70% is corrupt and nothing is happening to anyone. The SOA Secret Service, in July this year, announces publicly that 20 judges in Croatia, high judges, are corrupt and that they pose a threat to national security. And what did he do? No, in July 2016, I apologize. A year and a half ago. And what has he done so far? What kind of judges are these? Please, Mr. Sessa, do you know which 20 judges are in the SOA report? What have you done against them? Have you heard from the director of SOA, Mr. Markic? How is it possible for us MPs not only to have to publish a property card, but we can be removed from immunity, and you can't look at the judge's immunity, and you can't see his property card, nor can you relieve him of his duties, impossible. He can judge until the day of judgment but you can't get to your justice. And this is therefore a very sad situation that has caused Croatian citizens to no longer speak to the courts at all. They know that in courts, they're just gonna spend an endless amount of time, so we're free to say our whole lives. A lot, a lot of money to spend, tens and tens of thousands of kunas, and eventually they won't get any justice. Nothing. And that's even those lawyers and judges who are honest people actually say the right person, here I was talking to a lawyer, so I asked him about the problem I have about what a bank cheated on me, he said look, I can promise you things now, and we'll judge you, you'll have so many and so many hearings, and in the end you won't achieve anything. That's what he told me before we even started. Isn't that terrible? You're right, you're right, and what you can do, nothing. So it turns out that, as in the Middle Ages, we have to get our fingers and swords taken, we have to challenge people to a duel to achieve some kind of justice over some question. In conclusion, the Croatian judiciary is the cancer of the early Croatian society. If the situation cleared up, not only would confidence be restored to the institutions, but investment and increased, GDP would increase, tax revenues would increase, emigration would be reduced, huge progress in democracy as a political system in general would be achieved, social conflicts would be reduced, particularly the increase in extremism and violence that we witnessed almost daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55053	Thank you, too. You have one replica from Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55054	Comrade Bunjac, you mentioned the property card of the judges, it seems to me that in the replica of Mr. Sessa, you told me that it would be good so that his property card, we have to present to us parliamentary representatives, from our husbands, children, all members, I don't see any reason Mr. Sessa, that you are ahead of me or any of us or any citizen without publishing it. This is whether you sold the land to Ivica Todorovic, the house, the apartment, it is not a problem for either you or us, which you should be ashamed of, if you are or if you are not. So what's the problem with judges who judge small people taking their heads off, while rich people who robbed this country, who do what you want, take off their hats. Here's the Horvatin's case. As a result, Mr. Bunjac, I agree with your debate, the judiciary is a key problem for Croatian societies, which is why we are lagging behind in the economy, which is why young people are leaving because they don't feel real security, and who's going to invest in this kind of justice? Who? Who was convicted of conversion and privatisation? Except they take their hat off when they come to court, and they don't worship them. I think it's time to send a message to the young people now that this can't go on and on and on about how to appoint judges who obviously are so I don't think he's in China anymore or in Korea North. So it's time to change things, protect the big ones, and the little ones take their heads off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55055	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55056	Thank you very much. Representative Bulj, so you're absolutely right when you say that judges should show the property cards as well as the MPs, but they should actually show them before the MPs because their function is much more sensitive than the MPs. I think the citizens think the MPs are a little less corrupt than the judges, at least according to these official polls. And not only should we show their property cards, but the property cards should show their entire relatives, and they should be listed all the way to the plate, spoons and shoes, and then let them tell fairy tales about how they honorably judge and can, then they can get closer and further relatives, and then judge gentlemen. And because they do not want to show in particular Mr. Sessa does not want to explain his business relationship with Ivica Todorovic, and that is why we can say so now that Ivica Todorovic has never been convicted of war profiteering. Who sold grain from Croatian commodity stocks in the London Stock Exchange to buy cheap grain from Serbia afterwards, due to the war, and of course for the dinars he was changing into, which Croatia rejected and traded there for foreign exchanges. That, if that had been cleared up, there would never have been this affair that we're having, there would never be a need for an investigative committee or for these breaks that we have every 15 minutes. That's what the courts were supposed to do. Yes, but the courts had business relations with Mr. Todorovic, and the parties had financed campaigns from Mr. Todorovic. So how can you now if he financed the campaign against him say something? And it's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55057	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, Mr Djuro Sessa, the rapporteur, asked for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55058	Thank you very much. Just a minute. Just two things. Article 45 The Court Act states that no specific cases will be discussed, so I would ask that you do not put me in a position to discuss a specific court case because it is simply not up to me to comment, nor may I say anything, and so does the Law on Courts when, where prescribed, the submission of a report to the President of the Supreme Court. Second thing, these 20 judges who are a security threat don't exist. That's what SOA Director here at the National Security Committee said, and that's what he said to former Minister Sprlja who for some of his reasons didn't want to share it with the public, and that's what SOA Director told me. Therefore, it is a disinformation that is constantly valid with the Croatian public space, and it is not true at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55059	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55060	Mr. Sessa, we expected you to answer the question of MPs, and the question primarily concerns judges, because the fact that Croatian society, and you know that Croatian society has a perception that more than 2/3 of people are disappointed with the Croatian judiciary, is one of the conditions of economic collapse of Croatia. We know that no one was convicted of war profit, of a robbery in privatisation. There's a review here, the system doesn't work, you're witnessing it. You're literally protected like bears. They don't talk to you, you don't get any conflicts of interest. You can't be in anything. You don't teach property cards to the public. For what? Why wouldn't the public know? And I repeat, we judge small ones, judge the most difficult as if murderers are those grandmothers who sell onions, you take their heads off while Horvatinčić and Todorovics are numerous, now it's in fashion to call him out but everyone else who helped him you take off his hat. The hats of the Republic of Croatia are being taken off, so everyone sees it. When you came to bow, because you couldn't function differently, the system couldn't function. Well, this is the bottom! So does anyone in this Croatia have to say that to your face? Praise things like you don't live in this country. The judiciary and the judiciary of you judges who, so look at the whole public is appalled by the situation in which the Croatian state is in a court of law. Criminals are free to walk, and little heads are coming off, little one. On them, sharpen your muscles, and trample them. Release the property cards, come out bravely. Here's our property card. Who are you afraid of? You are not gods if you are Supreme Court and Judges! People above all else! If we can give the property cards, no reason why you don't give it away. Tell the public and tell them whether I'm right or wrong. Why would you be protected? [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55061	Thank you, Mr. Bull. You made yourself clear. [[/Intruder Bulj: For national security?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55062	We're going back to work. Next he applied for a debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club Let's change Croatia's respected Ivan Lovrinović. Since he's not here, he's losing his right to debate. After him is the Most Independent Lists and Honorable colleague Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55063	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Parliament has not discussed the report by the President of the Supreme Court, neither for 2015 nor for 2016 until today. In fact, the last two Assembly meetings did not discuss this report on the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. In the meantime, we received a recent report a few months ago and a new Supreme Court president who is now presenting the report in question, although he is not his author. But since he was the judge of the Supreme Court, Mr. Sessa, he must have been well referred to the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. From this report, we in MOST Independent Lists expected the focus on the objective state and functioning of the judicial authority, organisational problems and shortcomings in the legislation and on all proposals for improving the work of the courts, as it says in the Law on Courts, Article 45, which is the basis for the submission of this report. Just what I said should be the content of the report. However, this report unfortunately contains a large number of tables and statistics in itself. The report that, in fact, we have two reports in 2 years is generally positive intonated, primarily through thousands of numbers that should confirm that the courts work faster, more efficiently and better quality. The fact is that there is a reduction in the number of courts, that there is a trend in the reduction of cases for the fourth year in a row, that at the end of 2016 there are also about 467 thousand pending cases without land-based books from the court register and that so far is the smallest number in several years. It is also a fact that the number of judges is reduced and that in 2012, he was a judge, today, at the end of 2016, one hundred less, 1830. That no new judge was received interestingly in the past year, 49 of them were released for retirement. But the fact is that in this place, there's no fresh blood in that system, and the question is when will the trainees show up, for years we've been talking about it, we haven't had any new trainees who would one day take over the duty of a judge. The fact is, at least for now, there's no big change. Yesterday it just coincided with this report in front of the Croatian Parliament an open conference of faster, better, more modern judiciary on the occasion of the European Day of Justice. He was at the conference, said the Prime Minister who spoke about how justice reform was one of the longest reforms, which dealt with a number of governments, is crucial for the economic work and development of Croatia's perception as a country incentivising investment and the work of judicial authorities as a key political, economic and legal issue of continuity in the centre of public and media interest. And I repeat exactly what the Prime Minister said because it is important that today we discuss the truth as the 5th topic today in the afternoon when everything else is more important than this crucial topic that the prime minister himself said is a key, political, economic and legal issue. The prime minister himself said that procedures still take too long to violate the right of citizens to trial within the legal time limit, judicial independence does not exclude responsibility for their decisions, trust in the judiciary is low, and that is the perception we must change together. And what is the public's perception of the judgmental authority? Of course, when we talk about perception, it's usually not a solid proof of numbers, exact facts that we can present. However, there are certain studies that are relevant. The last to be carried out on this was carried out by the European Commission this year, so it is very fresh because it was conducted in January 2017, a survey in all EU Member States on the perception of the independence of national, judicial systems in the general public. What are the results of this research? In 17 Member States at least half of the respondents consider their judicial system in terms of independence of courts and judges to be good. However, in Croatia 62% of respondents believe the system is bad. And by that, we are the worst Member State since Bulgaria, where 63% of those who claim this, we are the second worst member of the EU in this perception. And 27% of Croatian citizens believe that the judicial system is very bad and that perception makes us the worst member state in the EU. With 64% of Croatian citizens, the status and position of judges is sufficiently guaranteed by their independence and we are the worst among the EU countries. Also among citizens who believe that the judicial system is bad in Croatia, 85% believe it is because of the government's interference or pressure and politicians. This makes Slovenia and Spain the worst in the EU. By observing the entire national sample of 53% of Croatian citizens, the government and politicians feel that the interference of the government explains why there is no independence of the national judicial system. 45% of them think it's because of the pressure of economic and other interests. I note that this research carried out in all Member States was done on a sample that was the same in all countries, about 1000 citizens. So 1,000 in Croatia but also 1000 in Germany, France and other countries that are far larger by population. Which means that the relevant sample in Croatia was actually far greater, statistically than in large EU Member States, so it has more objectively because the sample is therefore far more representative. You have another report that was also carried out at the same time that gives perceptions of the independence of national judicial systems by companies. In Croatia, 67% of respondents, therefore in companies, thinks that the Croatian judicial system is bad and therefore we are the worst among all EU Member States. How do you think this will affect foreign investment and investment in Croatia given such an extremely unfavourable distribution across the EU? Do you think it will have no effect, that it will not affect the investment rate, that it is only a foggy perception of 2/3 of those respondents in Croatian companies who gave their view on it. I would never in this way minorise this research or any other research as a mere perception that is not relevant. It's very relevant, unfortunately. These figures are, I won't say warning, they're not even the yellow card, they're the red card, they should be worried because the numbers are terrible, we're almost the worst EU Member State in the assessment of citizens and business people. So, regardless of which of these categories you're looking at, we're at the very beginning. On the other hand, a few days ago, you have a statement from the Association of Croatian Judges in which it reacted to the public and to a series of steps in the media on a first-degree verdict in which it is in some way considered that this is no excuse for such reactions, that in fact no entire judicial system should be condemned and all judges who are fair and worthy of their duty. And that is, of course, true and not necessary through the prism of an individual inadequacy decision being observed whole because we can always say that in any system there are extremely honest and high-quality people, but unfortunately the part that doesn't work in that way in any system can, unfortunately, lead to a perception that is extremely negative. It is therefore necessary to take a critical look at the state of the judicial authority, but we must go from ourselves. The Croatian Parliament certainly did not contribute as much as it could to the better work of the judicial authority. Due to frequent changes in laws that have no doubt affected the organisation and operation of the judicial authority. The new Criminal Procedure Act was amended six times in 2008 and some provisions were abolished by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The penal law, which entered into force on 1 January 2013, has already been amended several times, almost every year. The normative, therefore, legislative framework is certainly the source of the work of the problem, the question of how much it causes or enables too long judicial proceedings, especially in complex cases, precisely those of the public interest. Yesterday, the prime minister said in his statement that a whole series of procedural and material laws had changed, allowing for the length of court proceedings to be shortened. I am sincerely surprised by that statement because, according to everything we know now, the duration of the more important, more complex court proceedings, especially in criminal cases, is far above the reasonable term spoken of. Such actions extend to 6, 7, 8, 10 years, and today it has been said that some of the procedures in which there are an extremely large number of witnesses and a number of defendants and where the court record is huge, will last for years and years. All this is to be discussed, unfortunately, is not enough only once a year or once every two years to discuss the state of the judicial authority. Of course, part of the responsibility lies with the legislative authority. And we should do everything and appeal and ask the Ministry of Justice to really scan the entire system, the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and to seek a reform of procedures that, at least from a normative point of view, could speed up the procedure in those particularly important, especially criminal proceedings because the current situation is absolutely unsustainable. What we have now is not that justice is slow but accessible. More often it would be said that justice is disputed or unattainable. And that's the biggest problem, let's start with ourselves. But there's other actors, there's State's Attorney's office, there's courts, there's part of their responsibility. What I should also appeal to the new President of the Supreme Court, when a report is submitted to us next year on the state of the judicial authority, I ask that there be fewer tables, numbers, to be proposed measures which you see and which we can implement in the legislative framework, how to improve the work of the judicial authority, how to shorten the duration of the proceedings, how to reach this famous reasonable deadline that can guarantee a fair procedure for all individual entities found in it. Especially in those cases that citizens are interested in. Justice must be available, fast, effective, and must be brought to life by the rule of law. And therefore, since this is not even your report, the first report that you have submitted to you, I appeal to you as the President of the Supreme Court on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, do everything on the proposals for measures, the legislative framework, the judicial organisation in a way that you see that indeed this poor perception that is not ours, which is officially the EU, will change and that next year we will not talk about kidnapping giving Croatia at the beginning of the EU at the perception of the national judicial system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55064	Thank you. Two replicas, first honorary colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55065	As an expert on constitutional law, you spoke of the fact that the Croatian judiciary, the judiciary at the bottom of the EU, and it was strange, it would be strange to be someone below us because the fact that there is justice in Croatia is a simple sentence, "Where the money sounds like justice is burning." The fact is, we're high, i.e. At the bottom of the scale and on corruption, we see that "heads are being taken off" only people, condemning only people who are weaker in property. And those who have money, who whisper money, they can literally kill people, but they'll be free. Unfortunately, the Croatian judiciary, professor, can be described in a single sentence in its own language. The pleasures of the rich are bought with tears of the poor. It is a fact today in Croatia, with tears of the poor. How many factories, the backpacks, the factories that were robbed, the workers are on the road, in containers. How many of their kids are running out, so someone's here responsible, where are the verdicts? To repeat, as I said at the outset, “Where the money sounds, there is justice. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55066	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55067	Thank you. In my presentation, I don't think I've touched any concrete legal proceedings, court proceedings, and that's exactly what we can't do in the legislative authority either. But the fact is that we must in some way turn to a judicial authority that is independent, I believe that the Constitution has guaranteed the independence of the judicial authority, especially after the constitutional changes in 2010, but we must in some way react and point out that the situation is alarming in the judicial system and that this is not just a mere perception that is somehow felt in the air or about which it is written in our media but that there are clearly relevant research based on a relevant statistical sample that will be relevant for the EU's assessment of the state of our judicial system. We can't ignore that. Therefore, regardless of the specific cases we must not discuss, we must indicate that, regardless of the independence of the judicial authority, there is a responsibility. And that is why we appeal to you as the President of the Supreme Court because you are at the top of that pyramid that the system that you are headed for really takes this responsibility seriously at this very moment which is extremely important.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55068	Okay. Another replica of a respected colleague, Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55069	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Perception of the public about the judicial authority. I'll read you an e-mail that circulates amongst people and will tell you a lot about how people experience the judiciary and all of us. He says: “Where do we live? There's an abortion here trying to settle for murder and a murder under syncope. You'll be here more... For four joints in the car than for four bodies under the car. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, in place of the murderers, bicycles without helmet are removed and “you were driving 63 a.k.a. 60”. Here the midwives who went on foot to the red throw on the floor and bring them in. This is where the inspections shut down the small merchants because of the kuna surplus in the register and the millions of missing cash registers don't open. You're here poor if you have a few hundred kunas long and a couple hundred million dollars long you're a gentleman. You don't trust hungry families here. They're trying to make arrangements here that maybe you're not family if you don't have a child. Here are all the children of God, unless you have Down syndrome, then the priest refuses to honor you because God is new to numbers and chromosomes." And here there is a lot of it written by a small man who really doesn't believe in the rule of law anymore. I can't generalize and don't talk about it and I won't talk about all the judges being like that, but we definitely have to be here worried about being perceived by people who, a little man and we're passing laws and what kind of situation our destiny is in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55070	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55071	Thank you, just for a little while. This article you have read, I have read as many others, there are many such articles, they are not individual but that is all I will comment on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55072	Next is SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected counterpart, Orsat Milenic. Since he is not here, he loses his right to speak, so now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected Marko Simic. Okay. Now let's get back to work. It is a club of HDZ representatives and respected counterpart Marko Šimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55074	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we have a report by the President of the Supreme Court on the state of the judicial authority for 2015 and 2016. As we know in accordance with the law, i.e. in accordance with Article 45. The Law on Courts, President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, is required to submit once a year a report on the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. In these reports for 2015 and 2016, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia shall analyse the conditions for the work of courts, both in terms of human potential and both in terms of material and financial conditions for work. All the results of the judicial authority have been shown in tables over the past two years. The report also gives a general review of the court's work both in cities and in branches. We can say that both reports on the state of the judicial authority are marked by the retention of the reduction in the number of cases which started in 2011 somewhere, which means that a number of cases have been resolved, from the number of cases received during 1 year. It is known that in the Republic of Croatia the judicial authorities carry out municipal courts, county courts, commercial courts, administrative courts, criminal courts, the High Court of Commerce, the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, the High Court of Commerce of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. The important year for us is certainly 2015 because there is a reorganisation of the trial in the Republic of Croatia, the number of courts decreases greatly. Thus, the number of courts from 256 is reduced to 161 of which 158 work later in the second half of 2015 and there is a reduction in the number of courts to 77 of which all 77 courts work. The President of the Supreme Court reported in his report that the trend of a reduction in the number of pending cases has continued. The number of cases received and solved in 2015 was 101.77% and for 2016. 104.41%. There has been an increase in the number of pending cases in the trial's commercial branch, due to changes in the bankruptcy law, there have been a number of bankruptcy cases, almost 16,000 cases. The largest number of pending cases, related to the civil branch of the trial, is about 72% of pending cases, while the Penalty has about 7%, the Infringement 18%, and the Administration of 3% of unsolved cases. In 2016, there was also a trend in reducing the number of cases pending in bankruptcy proceedings by some 244%. As regards human potential, it is evident that the number of court employees is decreasing, so in 2014, there were 8669 persons employed in the courts in 2015. 8527 persons, 2016 8458 people. The number of civil servants in courts, which was in 2016 in 1830, was also reduced in the year 1879. These data also confirm the forecasts we have seen in the report on the continuing decline of the number of judges in the courts, as well as the reduction of the number of other employees, and such a trend is foreseen in the future and due to the structure, the age structure of court officials. It may be important to note when talking about the total number of women women are in some percentage of 82% present at Croatian courts. As regards the reduction of the number of judges, it is important to note that in 2015 35 judges came out of the system while in 2016 49 judges and 49 other officials came out of the system, of which 16 judges, 8 judicial advisers. As regards material and financial resources, it is important to note that more than 80% of these funds are spent on wages, it is warned that the need for more resources for the education of judges, for the training of professionals, for specializations, for the purchase of professional literature and for the like is certainly very necessary in quality work and behaviour of the duties of Croatian judges. It is important to note that larger investments and larger investments in 2014 and 2015 are invested in the implementation of information systems in our judiciary. It is thus adapted to the information system e-script and the JCMS system. Further information on the system is important and should be focused on the implementation of the electronic file in order to finally achieve the efficient and modern business of our courts. Electronic communication is both necessary and important because of the obligations Croatia has made by entering the EU and by monitoring all EU trends and the level of development of the information of the European countries' judiciary, it is therefore important to implement full and electronic communication in Croatian courts. When we talk about branches in the Croatian judiciary, the criminal branch of the trial stands solidly, the ratio of the number of cases solved and received from year to year varies and is about 100%, therefore, is equal to the number of cases solved to the number of cases which courts receive in certain years. In 2015, an automated procedure was introduced to assign the cases to county courts as an anti-corruption measure, and we saw some negative consequences of this introduction because, for example, the County Court in Vukovar received some number of cases than that court may at this time be able to accept it. For 2016, the number of pending cases is on the rise when we talk about the criminal branch of the trial. The increase in the case in the county courts and the number of resolved cases in the county courts is analogous to that, according to the larger inflow and higher. As for the criminal department of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, we see that the inflow of new cases to the Supreme Court in a continuing fall, the number of pending cases has been reduced year by year, it is 584 cases in 2015, while in 2016 it is 566 cases and there are really greater shifts in recent years. We see that when we talk about old age, it is important to note that in 2007 there were 687 cases in old age, in 2015 and 2016 we cannot talk about similar problems, in old age it went to municipal courts of 17 cases, in county court 2, so a total of 19 cases in 2015. As regards the monitoring of the work of municipal courts, we can conclude that there has been a reduction of pending cases in all types of proceedings between 2013 and 2016, the number of pending cases for 86 250 cases has been reduced. We see that there is a problem with trade courts where we have an increased number of cases by certain judges and we see quite a discrepancy between courts or the burden of individual judges by the number of cases in certain courts. A review of the movement of civil cases shows that courts in the past 2 years have been reducing backlogs thus reducing the number of pending cases per judge, 30% of the old cases are being solved annually. A total of 365 cases were delegated during 2015. It is important to note that quality remained at 14.7% of the suspension decisions therefore take further steps to educate judges and monitor the quality of work. It is also important to note from the Government's opinion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has found in its opinion and notes that the European Court of Human Rights made more judgments during 2016 and 2015 claiming infringements of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms by the conduct of domestic courts, whether the courts did not properly apply the Convention or even applicable domestic law, and is one of the indicators that more efforts should be made and slightly greater resources in the education and specialisation of judges. The Committee of Justice adopted this report, i.e. both reports unanimously, and I can say that the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament will also accept this report for 2015 and 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55075	Thank you. We have one replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55076	Dear Representative Simic, how do you comment that the Supreme Court abolished the HDZ verdict with the power of which they were essentially found guilty of criminal association and the withdrawal of large amounts of money and in light of the fact that most of these same judges were appointed by the will of the same party, or your party to HDZ? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55077	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55078	Dear colleague Pernar, I'm not used to commenting on court proceedings, especially trial pending. All I can say is that in that trial, I wasn't a judge, I wasn't a witch, I didn't have a record. I believe in the rule of law, believe in the institutions of the rule of law, believe in the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia. Surely there are some anomalies in certain cases, but there are more facts, there is an evaluation of judges, and of course there are some measures that are being done by judges. So, in a specific case, I really don't have any comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55079	Let's move on. Now a respected colleague, Vesna Pusic, is on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55080	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Supreme Court, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say a few words about these two reports or I can say more about these two reports on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU. Although it is rarely happening and it is rare for me to agree with what practically everyone or can say to all my colleagues before me, including even my colleague Simic, who is simply for those who read weaker, convinced the report. So the truth says it all in this report, but I think it's actually an unfortunate circumstance for us to discuss such an important topic at the same time that the whole drama around Agrokor is turning up or happening. Because the situation in the judiciary is no less important. It can even be said that perhaps the most important or in the context of practically all the difficulties we have and certainly is nothing less important than the debate on the situation in Agrokor, but it is in some way passing through the shadow of this great affair and therefore gets less attention, and at least as much the situation in the judiciary concerns and touches all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as it is the Agrokor case and I am particularly afraid as the Agrokor case will be in the months and years ahead. Both reports show mostly statistics. Statistics aren't irrelevant. Of course, it is important to reduce the number of pending cases, especially since Croatia is one of the leading countries by the number of judges per capita. So it's certainly not leading by efficiency, as it turns out, that I'm not quoting all these studies that my colleagues quoted in front of me. So, statistics are not irrelevant, but the point of the problem is also the point of what required that these data that are now being shown as statistics, or that this state of statistics is being shown, and now, in some ways, the essence of these changes has not been to change statistics. The point of these changes was to change the situation in the judiciary, so to increase efficiency, to achieve or at least achieve greater uniformity of court rulings on the same always the same as if I could say Vlado Gotovina quoted Aristotle's logic. So in this particular case, I am afraid that the situation has not improved, and that is why all of us in the debates simply have to call for cases not to discuss specific cases, but because concrete cases are illustrations, the reason and the basis for a negative perception of the judiciary. Because negative perception is in itself important, but negative perception is also the result of the real situation. So negative perception isn't just something abstract, here's what people seem. This is what it seems to people because they look at specific cases and from these specific cases they conclude. Why do I say perception is important? Perception is important because people of course behave according to their perception. They act according to how they see an institution functioning and to what extent they have confidence in it because of how they experience it. So, if someone, a young family or a certain man wants to make a decision on an investment, he will, based on his perception of legal certainty, make that decision to invest here or not. If he decides to seek justice through institutions, and don't let God outside the institutions, he will, such a decision will, of course, also be based on his perception. But perception, so who's important now is not everything. All perception is combined or as a reflection of the real state, and that, I think about this real state, that we in the Croatian Parliament have to talk and we have to talk about it because it depends on the stability and future of the state and is the basis of the absolute functioning of the state. At the time of Croatia's EU membership negotiations, we had a monitoring of the judiciary. And at that time, I remember the ministers were both colleagues Bosnjakovic and fellow Simonovic and we were all together at that time as we had a consensus on Croatia's entry into the EU and on the need for judicial reform we co-operated and discussed it and it went in a positive direction. I remember well, when we were with counterpart Shimonovic, who was then the minister, discussing the possibility that, as a rule, from entry to exit of the case from the trial, the duration of 12 months should be determined. It was an ideal at the time, but not an ideal that was not talked about or that seemed unattainable. And the changes that took place in the judiciary in the evaluation of judges, in the education of people entering this extremely important profession, indicated that, in this direction, we would move and eventually reach that desired goal. I must be here in front of you who listen, not to say in front of the public, to say that I am precisely based on this on the conclusion of our negotiations and just before our formal entry into the EU, with a full heart and with full conviction that our monitoring of the judiciary is lifted, at the moment we become a full member of the EU. I thought first that when we become a full member, we must have the same situation as everyone else and secondly, we are going in a good direction, we will continue that direction and therefore, there is no need to retain any international, or European monitoring over the Croatian judiciary. I must be here with grief and to say, that today, I think I was wrong, that I was wrong when I thought that trend would continue and that we would no longer need the EU monitoring, as far as the judiciary is concerned. The situation did not develop as it appeared in 2011, so in 2012, during which the ratification of the accession contract took place and the situation happened, as regards the content of the work of the judiciary, not statistics, statistics improved and there is nothing to say and this should be welcomed. But as far as content is concerned, the way it works, as far as uniform case-law is concerned, no matter what part of Croatia or which part of Croatia is concerned, the situation has deteriorated. And in public perception a huge role is played by facts such as killing a few people in traffic and being freed. I agree, inadmissible, with a first-degree verdict. But also first-degree, why the first-degree should be, here suggests, the opposite of what would possibly be a later verdict in one of these situations and finally, only if it was decided, is our former colleague Stipe Petrina who said it would happen in advance. So, such situations or two young men who were killed by a third young man and received minimum prison sentences, with eased circumstances, that one brother died in the war, and the other one had a small child. These are the facts on which perception is based. And you can't discuss perception or the state of justice if you're not talking about real people. About the real situations people go through. The person I know, for one thing, let's just say, quite another level, has been going through a divorce case for 19 years with a debate, that is, a decision on property. She started at 45 and ended up at 64. I think these are things that create perception and actually create a negative attitude, and in this respect, it is the only moment where I disagree with my colleague Simic, and over 60% of Croatian citizens also seem to disagree with him when he said he had confidence in the Croatian judiciary. More than anything, I wish we could have absolute confidence in the Croatian judiciary and have such concrete cases, which we know from either the newspapers or everyone in our lives, from our friends, neighbors, acquaintances, so not some particularly media-interesting people, but simply the people who entered this sacrifice that had been grinding them for 20 years and de facto took away the best years of their lives when they couldn't go on vacation, when they couldn't live normally because they were guarding the apartment or I don't know what they were discussing for 20 years. So these are the things that affect the impression we have. The relationship between the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, therefore, when the Supreme Court brings a verdict, then the Constitutional Court which should not be part of that chain returns it to the beginning. So put the whole case back to square one. This relationship is just as interesting to us, and I think we should open it up and talk about it. So all of this points to the need for such reports to really suggest how such situations can be avoided in the future and how can such a case-law that things and facts and impressions end? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55081	We don't have a replica. So we're done with counseling clubs now. And we move on to individual debates. The first is a respected colleague, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55082	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Judge Sessa, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must say that I will give a passing assessment of the report. And now I'd like to say a few words about the work of the judicial authority. We live in a world where we get cornered. things look black and rarely when seen through a different prism. We live in a world that likes negative sensations, and positive events very rarely see on the cover, usually these positive events are somewhere on the side, small titles, small icons. But negative sensations, such as the Horvatincic sensation, have taken up media space for days. On the other hand, sensations that are positive don't take the cover. And I'm going to say what happened recently, it happened on 3.10.2017 and yesterday was a statement from the Supreme Court, and what happened was that the Supreme Court abolished the judgment of the High Court of Commerce, accepted the review of the consumer association, that is, the Association of Franck. So, I'm talking about something that's over. I'm not talking about something to decide on, I'm talking about something that's over. So, the Supreme Court has completed its process. He went back to the High Court of Commerce. And I don't see a single cover in huge letters written by the Supreme Court abolished the High Court's verdict and accepted the revision of the Consumer Association, or Franak. And this is about a case involving over 100,000 Croatian families. So, it doesn't apply to some kind of car accident over there. I have to say that despite some cases of cover-up, it's a traffic accident. Now, as interesting as it is or not, I personally don't find that too interesting. I'm much more interested in mass cases, and the franc case is one mass case, where it's already been decided that it's already been decided by law, the part has not been abolished, that 7 banks have negotiated an illegal variable interest rate with consumers. And now I have to tell you who's doing a good job, who's not doing a good job. So seven banks were convicted. We can say that the court has done its job well. After 7 banks are convicted, people should now go into private court proceedings and demand their money back in court. And it's over 100,000 people. When such a verdict is reached on such a judicial dispute that is systematic, which applies to many people, then it should be the task of the executive and legislative authorities to solve the problem systematically. So, after 2013. The judgment was reached on 13.6.2013. So far, he's had 10 convictions, and we've got about 3,000 as far as I'm aware of the disputes that take place in first-degree courts. And over 100,000 people are damaged. So the executive and legislative authorities didn't do their job. The executive and legislative authority should have, on the basis of such a collective verdict, been able to resolve the case and allow people out of court to get their money, which is their money. And it's not just theirs, it's the money that when people come back to them, they'll pay, they'll spend, it'll grow in GDP, the banks won't fail. No way. Therefore, the Supreme Court has respected this revision of the Consumers Association, i.e. the Franks Association and what is most important in that judgment, it is said that the case-law of the EU court must be respected. So, as much as some people have been against the EU, I can say that I am very grateful that we have entered the EU, because the EU court is a top expert judicial body to which we deserve to belong and to which we deserve to answer. And I'm very glad we got into the Union, and that Union may have saved us. Now the High Commercial will decide. I'm not gonna say anything about that. But I hope at least that verdict is passed in half a year. What I'd like to talk about is one case of unequal court practice. After that collective verdict has been passed, which is powerful in part for 7 banks and regarding variable interest rates. We've got 10 final convictions. However, there is no uniform case law in these judgments. In these powerful judgments, some judgments are such as to allow the debtor to receive only money back for 5 years, while other rulings are such as to allow the debtor to receive all the overpaid money from the beginning, so since the bank started to apply an illegal variable interest rate. I know that there are at least two extraordinary audits that have been sent to the Supreme Court, and in these extraordinary audits, one complains to the prosecutor, the consumer, and the other complains to the bank. The consumer complains that it has been decided that it has become obsolete in its dispute and the bank complains because its dispute has ruled that there is no outdated claim, so it would be really desirable now, I will not reconsider again, I will not say what the Supreme Court should judge, but I will say that it is really desirable that the Supreme Court adopts these extraordinary audits as soon as possible and thus bring legal certainty to all future prosecutors. Because what's this about? The man who presses charges doesn't know at this point whether good money or only back 5 years, and since unequal court practice, the Supreme Court is tasked with equating this case-law. So I appeal to you, Mr. Sessa, and to your court, as soon as possible, to level this case-law and preferably to hold a session and take a legal stand at the session, which will then have to be respected by all the lower courts. I usually give a passing grade to your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55083	Thank you, too. Next individual debate, respected counterpart Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55084	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Sessa, MPs and MPs. As I said during all the presentations on behalf of the club of representatives, we are literally buried every day with requests from citizens that their case is updated, that hundreds of cases are also spoken of, I will take the opportunity to present only one, which is directly related to the work of the Supreme Court and which all authorities in the Republic of Croatia are familiar with. And this is the case which, among other things, explicitly states that the Supreme Court is corrupt, I quote "to the core". This is the name of Canadian-Croatian citizen Josip Vujčić, who reported in an open letter about his case and the non-implementation of the European Court of Human Rights, he has as many as 2 of them, the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Justice. It is a gentleman who was the director of the sale of the American corporate giant General Electric, worth $750 billion and who warned that the company was violating consumer rights. After warning of this, instead of being promoted to a better position, he was fired from the company and subsequently sued the company to buy his lawyers and afterwards he had to conduct a parallel court dispute, one against the company, and the other against his own lawyers and representing himself. And in a case that lasted long and had over 4,000 pages, he won both cases, watch out, beat his own company and his own lawyers. However, the rulings have not been carried out in the Republic of Croatia and have not been implemented thanks to the policy and judiciary which today's rulings have been obstructed. Among other things, Mr Vujčić argues in an open letter, which therefore also has the President of the Parliament in his hands along with all the documents that the policy and the judiciary are visible primarily in the conduct of the President of the Republic and the US Embassy, who directly corrupts courts in the Republic of Croatia by donating information material, thus giving the municipal court $2 million donation, i.e. they gave it to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the DORH another $4 million donation to keep quiet about Mr Vujčić's case, i.e. obstructing him and similar cases. Among other things, I repeat once again, in an open letter, a man who has two powerful verdicts claims that judges, therefore the Supreme Court president of all important cases in Croatia, are headed by the US Embassy and the British Embassy. Moreover, there is no British secret service office in the municipal court building in Zagreb, and among other things Mr. Vujčić warns that these British secret services had offices in the municipal court named... and directly affect the work of the judiciary and of all courts in Croatia until the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Among other things, Mr. Vujčić, in a letter that you have all received, all the club representatives you have, warns that Croatian secret services have tried to bribe several times, reach a settlement that directly admitted their guilt only to remain silent, and when they failed, then Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic ordered the murder of his wife and son and they barely survived. So that he was then re-indicted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, etc., that the Director of SOA was urgently transferred to Los Angeles to get immunity and to keep quiet about it. Among other things, Mr. Vujčić argues that General Electric has in Croatia the interests of building LNG terminals and that the US former secretary-general, or candidate for president, has conditioned its arrival in Croatia by obstructing its verdicts. Among other things, because General Electric, the chief financier of her election campaign, was. And now you tell me, if that's true, and no one has denied it, and the letter is open, then you tell me, Mr. Sessa, am I asking everyone else if Croatia is even a state? Are we a state or are we a "banana republic" in which courts, politicians and all state bodies execute the orders of American and other corporations. Because what it says here, and it's been in the House for as long as I've seen for half a year, that no one reacts to it, that no one has denied it. Why didn't you deny it? I'm terrified of this. Among other things, it is claimed in this open letter that Mr. Miro Kovac was not admitted to US Vice President Cary because of this case. That's what it says, please, in the open letter. ... Mrs. Pusic, the gentleman has two final convictions. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Where did you get the right to derivate the European Court of Human Rights and you fought the most about Croatia entering the EU to have legal protection. So now you're jumping into your own mouth. You're on your own. You fought for the EU. You said people wouldn't have pensions if we didn't join the EU, that they wouldn't have any rights. And now that you have two final judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, you're saying now that it's a piece of paper, that it's a nebulosis. I can't believe what you're saying here. Take a 4000-page file into your hands and study it for a little bit. I gave myself a hard time, so I studied it unlike you. To me, what citizens send to Parliament aren't pieces of paper, it's human lives to me, it's a question of whether I have my own country or not. Because what we're reading here is just terrible. A man is being obstructed by a powerful verdict. So I repeat once again, by the American Embassy, the secret services of Croatian and foreign, the Office of the President of the Republic. And why is that kept quiet? Why is it now USKOK and here, as these agents write here with Mr. Vujčić trying to make a deal, pay him tens of millions of euros on his hands just to finally cover it up. Among other things, Mr. Vujčić said that shortly after the visit of Prince Charles to Croatia on 14 and 15.3.2016, he was re-launched by a secret agent, Željko Omazic, who distributes American vacuum cleaners to the Republic of Croatia, otherwise he was the first employer of former Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. All this I have now stated is once again with the President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic of Croatia and Mr Sesse of the Supreme Court in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55085	We have one replica, respected representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55086	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What I said was not just a piece of paper, but a piece of paper to bear. I can't talk about what I don't know about, but what I know I can talk about. So, as far as judgments are concerned, if a man has the rightful judgments, of course they should be carried out. And I don't know about these other allegations, and I can't talk. But what I can talk about because I know is the visit of American Secretary of State Hilary Clinton to Croatia at the time, because I made direct arrangements and the conditions were not at all. No way! So this man's name was not mentioned, nor any conditions for her arrival in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55087	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55088	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Pusic. So as you know these are publicly available data here they are online. ... The campaign's chief financier, Hilary Clinton. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is where the data was presented, so in that open letter. This may not be directly your concern, so the Supreme Court judges are briefing on cases such as these and similar foreign intelligence services. Moreover, the offices of these services are located in the municipal court building in Zagreb. I didn't go in there to check, and these are very serious charges. If that's what came to Mr. Sessa Prime Minister, the presidents and all the MPs, you had to do something about it. You just had to say I don't know these are crazy, that's not true. You should have sent a demarch, a transcript, just say, do you realize what the seriousness of these accusations is? And it's just one of the sea cases that I can present here today because I've got dozens of them, where people are disgusted, where they just think it's something unimaginable, that it can't be compared to the worst totalitarian regimes in which some of them have lived, that there's lost every possible freedom. Look, he's saying the prime minister orders the murder of his children. And you don't think that's scary? And you know very well what I'm saying and now pretend like it's the first time you've heard it in your life. It's really sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55089	Let's move on. Next individual debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55090	Thank you very much. Mr. Sessa, we've been looking for a number of answers, and the MPs have asked a question. We did not get the key answers because the fact that an independent judiciary is very important to be independent, but it is also a fact that Croatian citizens about the judiciary, the judiciary, the judicial authority, judges, most judges, of course not all, have an extremely negative opinion. And I will repeat what I said and at the beginning that the key to mistrust is in the judiciary because people remain, the economy is not developing, it's a fact, and mainly unequal judgments. We need to know that when a man, I told you that, once again, when a man with his boat, a yacht kills two people, gets a free judgment, and when someone drives 10 kilometers faster than they need to get a prison or when some midwife at the market sells her domestic product, there's a judiciary very fast and efficient. And of course, I will repeat what I said and what my colleagues said, we are at the bottom of all the criteria and perceptions of the public in all the EU research. You were on the negotiating team around the judiciary when you joined the EU, and apparently you see these effects, that if you are simply rewarded for it, and if this system doesn't change the judiciary, if you are protected in the judiciary, I said and I will repeat it again as a face bear, I don't see any reason why you don't give your property cards, from whom you hide them. If the MPs, Prime Minister, can ask all others in society who are property card officials for their husbands, check everything alive, why not you? So you're not above, you're above Parliament, you're independent, but why this thing doesn't change, you've been in the judiciary for a long time, which is why you haven't affected this, and if you want to influence justice not to be corrupt. I'll repeat that proverb, in Croatia it's visible, the people know it, the people see it, maybe it doesn't look like that under these lights. “Where money sounds, justice gnaws.” It is true and you can very easily and easily check it in all studies of public opinion that are most opposed i.e. he rebels and talks, and that's a disagreement to the judiciary. That's a fact, and you can't run from it. How many convictions in 2016 were for the privatisation robbery, how many positive ones were made, how many times the judiciary was i.e. The judiciary and judges sided with workers who lost their seats, I don't see those examples, I'm sorry, but I don't see them. All those who robbed the Croatian state walk free, everyone. They've created their empires, we've got a handful of rich people, everything else is poor. This confirms the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. That's why we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. No more young people. And the judiciary is backed by politics is one of the key culprits. We may have good regulations, we may be changing them often, we may have copied them through the EU directive, but they are not respected and it is not archaic, and you know what an archaic is, meaning the criteria for each one. These are the problems you have to think about and you cannot rise up to Mr. Sessa or any judge above any official. You can be moved deep with politics, politically set but the people have chosen us and we have to teach property cards and that's okay. Why not you? Why if they tell the public that you sold your house to Ivica Todorovic, you don't say I didn't. Or in the property card, you say yes. If I'd done it, it would have crucified me. Or anyone. Of course, it's very important that the barrage of the court is very important and of course you'll never do it, but that's precisely why people suspect corruption in the judiciary. And the security services have provided information that there are corrupt judges. Why don't we know who these judges are who are corrupt, who affect mainly the development of the economy, human rights, many people are leaving Croatia because of these injustices. Justice is very important, it should be a pillar of justice, a pillar of justice, and it's not. Only if you were on this negotiating team before joining the EU on the chapter of the judiciary, which has been very high-qualityly located, arrested, transferred and processed by our heroes, will the Hague and Carla del Ponte ask for something very little, we would give 10 times more. If she'd asked for five papers, we'd have been given a tow truck. All institutions, you know it very well. While the Croatian state is being robbed the most. What about INA, what about telecommunications, what about the economic system, who was convicted, who was convicted? There was a process, but they always paid for the poor. Always the poor. I'll end up just finishing up Mr. Sessa, I already said that once. To small and ordinary people, you take your heads off in a court of law, and you take off your hat and bow down to rich thieves. It is the problem of Croatian society, the Croatian judiciary. You, as an authority, must change it, start from yourself and every judge. Otherwise, there is no future in Croatia. The judiciary is the biggest problem of Croatian society, as many Croatian people paid the pleasures of rich people who bought tears from the poor. Mr. Sessa, you have to answer the parliamentary questions, there is no boast, there is no protection, that the independent judiciary but not above all people. The very first example you must give your property card, first and tell the gentlemen the time to see your condition and not that the people doubt us that we are corrupt. So Horvatinčić now drives through Zagreb fast BMW while the grandmother who sold onions or works in Dalmatia or workers from Metković, Osijek, Rijeka, or I don't know where they have to go to jail and bring them in as the biggest criminals and they don't have bread. It's your responsibility because of those who are looking for food tonight, who are more and more poor every day, and their children are leaving. The judiciary, along with the policy that enabled them to do so, also agreed or disagreed with me, and this research is said by one of the culprits in the Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55091	Now you should speak to a respected colleague, Gordan Maras, but since he is not losing his right to debate, so let's move on to the last individual debate, it's a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55092	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out a problem that concerns the issue of antiquity of war profit. In fact, the Croatian Parliament has decided that war profits do not go out of date in 2010. Support was unanimous. However, according to the Constitutional Court’s interpretation and later the Supreme Court’s decision seems, that is, nothing. In the case of HDZ President Ante Jelavic, the Supreme Court has given an opinion that is more than certain that his process will go out of date because the investigation against him was launched in 2007 and the same thing is the case in Sanader, the same thing is in the case of Mr Djura Gavrilovic and similar macro-profits. So what the Supreme Court actually tells us is this. If you stole big money during the privatisation, or during the war, you profited from that war and the Croatian judiciary did not catch you in time yet you will pass unpunished, yet you will not be sanctioned, yet ate the wolf donkeys and return to that old never-forgotten parole of Ljuba Cessic Rojs who sits here I don't know which place he said "Who is yaming, yamio!" Whoever pitted it is the message that the Supreme Court sends by reason of the case means if I don't cheat on Ante Jelavic. Yes, Ante Jelavic for abuse of position and authority from '96. A year. Namely, by interpreting the Supreme Court that war profiting could go out of date even though the Constitutional Court has made a decision that it cannot, it is clear that the Supreme Court is playing the will of the Croatian Parliament. Whether it's in the works or not is difficult to judge. But I'm sure it is. Where it will take our society is clear. People will lose further confidence in institutions, and they will continue to be the impression that crime is not being punished. And those who have greased their mustache for big money they will pass... and that was the hardest time for Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I have no doubt that in my case where the DORH is looking for me for two months in prison for writing political graphite, I have no doubt. I don't suppose my case will go out of date. And why is that? Well, because that old-fashioned scheme has the idea of Alibius macro crime. So war profit is macro crime. And since the war is over, he's long gone. All those macro criminals are actually free. They'll be freed then for old age. Now these are my prophetic words. Both Ivo Sanader and HDZ mean former HDZ president Ivo Sanader and prime minister and his HDZ party and Ante Jelavic as former HDZ president of BiH and Djuro Gavrilovic, and all of this will be out of date by ladies and gentlemen. And I ask the question once it goes into obsolescence, when it is uncontested, when it is not disputed, the Croatian public will ask, so what was the meaning of these processes, why are hours and hours, years and years of state institutions spent in solving cases that will never be solved by a judicial verdict anyway. Why? To create an illusion in the public that crime is sanctioned. I remember when Judge Turudic, if I'm not mistaken in telling Sanader that he wants to send a social message that even the highest state officials can't escape from saying so, or that the hand of justice is slow, but ultimately available. However, with the Supreme Court's decision, a message is being sent, that the hand of justice, not only is it too slow, but also for people associated with HDZ, is often and unattainable. Or he'll never catch up with them. The people will therefore say, we are going back to the words of Ljuba Česic Royce, they will say so Royce was right when he said, who he pitted, and that is my message to the Croatian people. My message to the Croatian people is that it does not put its hopes in courts, that it does not put its hopes in the judicial system and its decisions. My message to the Croatian people is to put hope in its political will, in its political power. And to win the election, the system and the crime, because it's obvious that we can't do justice. So HDZ won't lose the battle by legal means. HDZ can lose the battle or war picturesquely speaking for power, only by political means and by election. The legal battle of HDZ cannot be lost. Because HDZ is a party above the law. HDZ is a party that writes laws, HDZ is a party that appoints judges, highest court cases and ultimately, of course, these same courts always pass judgment in their favour. Evi Sanader's verdict is dismissed, HDZ's verdict is dismissed, the ruling of Anti Jelavic, who was the president of the BBiH and many others, who, unlike just mentioned, are not so publicly exposed. And I can only say that Djuro Gavrilovic can freely rub his hands, Đuro Gavrilovic can say, I did well to raise millions of marks in the war, and you are all fools, who lived honestly. You're all fools who believed in the rule of law. You're all fools who believed in the institutions of the judiciary, etc. etc. A disgraceful verdict to Horvatinch, just a drop in the sea. There's been as many convictions as you want. I remember when the man who killed himself if I didn't cheat on two girls was released, because the court estimated that he was coming from a family that's like, I don't even know what to call a respectable family. Here, I ask, he's killed so he's free. I'm asking, is it possible that, say for me, the court says, so here's Mr. Pernar, you're gravitating, but you're coming from a respectable family. Your mother's a doctor, your father's an engineer, so we don't move on to the family tree, so here we are, so we're gonna free you. It means punishment. I suppose it won't be because my family is not respected in the way that families, i.e. family lineages, who have ruined our country, people who have acquired capital in privatisation, people who have political power in Croatia and people who control the judicial system. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my appeal, so it's not the Supreme Court judges, it's not the Supreme Court, it's not the ruling majority, it's my appeal to the Croatian voters to finally go to the polls and win the HDZ political way. Because as long as we don't beat them politically, nothing in this country will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55093	The replica of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55094	Thank you very much, Reverend Pernar. I think you've very well detected the main problem in the Republic of Croatia, which is, therefore, a situation in the judiciary that can only be won by political means. This means, not of course, that one set would come and set up its judges, but that the citizens in Croatia would finally choose people, who would allow the judiciary to be independent and just. And no, if we had a single Supreme Judge in Croatia for 25 years, and that's one grandfather, who would like to bring the two-party into the Republic of Croatia before the end of his life. I don't know what to do with myself, so before he loses all his strength, I don't know what to do with himself, and I don't know what to do with him, and then even before he loses all his strength, I don't know what to do with what his name is, and once he's gone, he's gone. Therefore, the judiciary is indeed a huge problem. Here, today we're talking about how all citizens and judges themselves are talking about how the judiciary is corrupt, and Mr. Sessa doesn't know about any single corrupt judge. He's never heard of it in his life. He's saying that the SOA report is a fantasy. About 20 corrupt judges, so where's that? Mr. Sessa, I can tell you, too, Agent Pernar, that SOA is doing its job very well. I'm personally on the National Security Committee and I know that SOA does its job well and certainly doesn't chatter. So do you think the SOA director would have told the public that 20 judges were corrupt and that he would have no consequences after that because of such a statement that she was not true? How many war profiteers are there, you also mentioned well, you know how many? One. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55095	Thank you. Now we have a final debate of the Live Wall and SNAGA Club and a colleague of Pernar's again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55096	Croatian people, if you expect justice from the justice system, you will not experience it. Croatian people, if you expect justice from those who are corrupt, you will not welcome it. I don't remember the last time a case against a corrupt judge was filed, but I do know about the case of Judge Roglic, who said that the county court, if I'm not mistaken, where he works or municipally that he's been corrupt, that the judges on him are corrupt. So the judge says, my colleagues are corrupt and he was convicted because he called them corrupt. So in Croatia, one who says corruption exists in the legal system is more likely to be convicted than someone who is corrupt. The President of the Supreme Court, he doesn't know about any of the cases of a corrupt judge, so what do you say about what our judiciary is like? Only 2 options, i.e. 2 conclusions, can be drawn from its conclusion. One conclusion is that he does not know about any case of judicial corruption, a corrupt judge because the judges are not corrupt, because our judiciary is not corrupt and because, as it would say, the system is working properly. However, our citizens tend to trust another thesis, which says, that he knows no case of a corrupt judge, because the crimes that judges do, put under the rug, because the legal system is set up in a way that judges are untouchable. Because the system is paralyzed and because the same people who should be convicted of corruption are corrupt themselves, that is, that the whole system is deeply corrupt. So these are the two options. The first is that there is no crime in the judiciary and that they are all honest, and the second is that they are actually corrupt at all levels. Looking at recent court rulings, especially by releasing Sanader, HDZ and ultimately the presidential ruling of the Supreme Court, which follows the constitutional practice, that all items of war profiteers essentially go into wartime. I can't help but think that these courts and this kind of system are leading us to ruin, to legal uncertainty, and I would dare say anarchy, or not even anarchy where no one rules, but something that would call the law stronger. So where does the one who has the bigger hand, the one who has the bigger bag, the one who has, to put it that way, closer friends. And right now it's HDZ. And I'm saying, they name judges, they pass laws, and actually they're modern-day in the legal system. Such a situation will not change until an honest and real opposition becomes a position. I'm seeing her right now in the Living Wall. It is the only party that has not participated in the government, which is by its nature corrupt. And I call on Croatian citizens, therefore, that when they go to the elections, if they care about the rule of law, if they care about it, to mix up the crime in the judiciary, to support us in the elections, because otherwise, they will continue to watch the liberating verdicts of Horvatinčić and these tycoons and means war profiteer Đuri Gavrilović and all of that, let's say, sweet people too. Including know-how, I gave an individual and former HDZ president, Mr Antu Jelavic, etc., etc., etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55097	We will now finally be addressed by the President of the Supreme Court, the Honorable Djuro Sessa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55098	Mr. President, thank you very much. Thank you very much for all the criticism, based on a report that isn't mine, but is my predecessor and I won't answer any personal assessments that concern me alone, because neither is the subject of this debate, I'm not like a person. Just a few reflections on some of the most significant remarks of principle. As far as the impression is concerned, I think we're responsible for the impression of the judges themselves, because there's one aspect of public communication. But that communication with the public has been taken over by others, in this respect, from communication and the explanation of certain key subjects and what is said in public, this negative impression is being created. As for the relations between the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, this position is laid down by the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. Some time ago, 10 years ago, when such a relationship was applauded, without any critical remarks. I am pleased to ask this question, but it is before the question of the law and amending the law, rather than the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court could put it there in any way. As for the research done by the employees themselves, it's a novelty for me, rather than mentioning a study that was conducted, during which the minister was Ana Lovrin, who was surveyed by the parties in the courts. So, the people who had something in court. And the survey, which was conducted at different courts in the Republic of Croatia, was somewhere between 3.5 and 4. As for complaints by the parties, they certainly point to problems, but in order to be credible they would have to be established. And it often turns out that they're more or less subjective to some situation than the real situation. As for the protection of workers, the Supreme Court in 90% of the cases covered by labour law provides protection to workers. So I don't think the workers in the court system are unprotected. As for the number of judges, when reference is made to the Anglo-Saxon examples, it is forgotten that Britain has 25,000 judges working outside its basic profession. So, lawyers, other lawyers, who work afternoons as judges, and those numbers are never mentioned. As for mistrust in the work of the courts, it certainly is something that worries certainly every judge, but 1300 cases, million and 300 thousand cases, annually, new ones come to court. So, between these statistics and these grades there's probably truth somewhere in the middle. The question of legislative activity, I absolutely support it. I think there are a number of laws already in the Justice Department that will be able to reach security. One of these is the possibility of asking a previous question in cases that will be very large, to avoid individual trials, so that such a proposal already exists in the Ministry of Justice, it is made up of judges themselves and delivered to the Ministry of Justice. So it's not true that judges don't have feelings for what you'd say, a social moment. The application of the Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights, the problem with this Convention is the positive training of judges in the Republic of Croatia, which is that they apply national laws primarily, and the European Convention on Human Rights states that no national law applies, if contrary to the Convention. And it's a very difficult cleavage. And I have to say, that's the problem, but in our continental positive legal education, these are concepts that are not easy to skip. As regards the length of the proceedings, one information is missing in this report, which is the average duration of the proceedings to individual courts. I think that in courts, where there is one stable review of the case and a sufficient number of judges that such excerpts, i.e. such escapades of length of proceedings, are not too much. And as for practices and statutes for privatisation or privatisation during the Homeland War, everyone, including courts, and above all, the Supreme Court, is obliged to respect the positions of the Constitutional Court. And if the Constitutional Court has taken a certain position on this matter, we cannot change it, but we are obliged to respect it. So, here's so much and as far as property cards are concerned, let me just say that, it's a matter of law, and as far as my property card is concerned, it's done in the paper read 50 times. So whoever enters the paper archives will be able to see, and I don't think my property card really needs to be discussed in this House of Commons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55099	We have one replica. Dear colleague Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. President of the Supreme Court. Well, here I am, reading your report in detail, and first of all, I want to say that we can certainly be satisfied that there are certainly among our judges and most of them are fair and correct and high-quality judges. I think it's hard to point a finger at someone and say that it's corrupt what my colleague Pernar was talking about. But I answered the line for something else. Your report here says what is the mission and what are the objectives of the judicial authority. One of these goals and yet listed here as the first is to ensure that all citizens must have the right and the possibility of access to the court. One piece of information that I would personally see here in this report, and now it is gone, so I ask you to take care of, in the 2017 report, that this may be found inside, which is how many courts of 77 established courts in the Republic of Croatia, how many are available for persons with disabilities, and when you mention the number of judges, I would also be interested, how busy is the person with disabilities in courts in the Republic of Croatia compared to the total number of employees? If it wasn't for law enforcement, then I'd be interested in whether the courts met the replacement quota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55101	You can answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55102	We will certainly take into account, as far as I know, the courts I have been in, the access to people with disabilities is available, and the employment of people with disabilities on courts can be delivered either by a special report or by the next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-26-0.u55103	Thank you. This is what we've come to the end of the debate, and I'm the one who concludes it, and we'll vote when the conditions come to an end. Report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2015, the applicant is the President of the Supreme Court, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority for 2015. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 84 for, 7 abstentions, 21 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent council.
