ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55794	One break on national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55795	All right, all right. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55796	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break to discuss attempts to suspend democracy in the Croatian Parliament and Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55797	You got it. He's a friend of Grumo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55798	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55799	You got it. All right, all right, we got it, thanks. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55800	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55801	Thank you. That's it, so we have four requests for a break. We'll continue at 9:00 and 45 minutes. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55803	Dear colleagues, it is one day, fateful day for the Croatian state, the Hague Six is awaiting a verdict, and if it is a matter of national security, it is much to be thrown away with that term, hybrid work, and the symmetry work, of course, is still being conducted today, and it is being taken from the outside and from the inside. Here, it is a shame that people defend themselves today in the HAG our six, because if it hadn't been for Herceg Bosnia and if it hadn't been for HVO, Croats in the BIH, today they wouldn't have become neither the Federation of BIH, nor the Croatian state, and it was a unique battlefield. At the same time as we have, we have a document from outside here, Republika Srpska, where the title of this document, the aggression of the Republic of Serbia, is. Imagine if war damage follows, and these paramilitary troops, the Chetnics, the JNA, were killed by more than 50,000 civilians in the BIH. And here's the document, it's in preparation. From inside aggression, so here, you should have the whole encyclopedia, to see who's working against the Croatian state. And we know who they are,... They showed their colors, all their faces, all their masks fell down, they're... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Crypto-Yugoslave. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most of them were before this war they were all, I think most of them signed not as Croats but Yugoslavs and cryptocommunists. Their tactics are deception, lies and so on. He asks a shithead, where you take 10% of the truth, you wrap it up in 90% of the lies and place it in public. They used to be social servants, and now they say in the former state, they worked for UDBU, they wrote articles for Paulette, for today, etc. politics, and in each article there were at least 3 lies. And that... continues today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have one there in the morning list, she wanted a coup in Croatia, and today she's a prominent journalist. You have a code name... He's a correspondent from the Vatican, and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's their goal? Whether he wants to legitimize one portal of doctrine, SFRY, justify that criminal organization, the most dangerous organization, the criminal, of the Western Ural, outside the Soviet Union. My colleague, Mr. Shakespeare, he's not the only one who's active. We have documents here, old document by Mr. Mesic, which in '56. Mr. President of the State, who bowed to the service of statelessness. They sent him to France to their uncle, there Tomo Pernar, sent him, did he cooperate with perhaps other people there who filtered, united Croats France, Croatian Patriarch's one association, they called themselves Luka and Tihi. Known Mr. Mesic and Luka and the Pacific perhaps, those snitches who killed Bruno Busic etc. Papers, here I waved papers, here like a fool, who cares? Is that interested in the National Security Committee, run by the former... And a militiaman? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who opposed this Lex Perkovic over there. Where are the papers? Where are the documents, like the letters of former commissions, for the investigation of the origin of the property? Di is the money, where the UDBA accounts are, etc. We see the fact, we can prove that this is just an extension of communism. This is just the extension of one Yugoslavia and everyone is working to bring this country down. They do it all the way. Some sitting here, and they were associates, they had names, as a degenerec, come in here in this room, right here, uh, honorably here, a tree, a degenerec, the first session of the Parliament, so half the heads there worked for the secret service of the former state. And what to say in the end, here I was waving documents, two assassinations. There is a man who dictated the Croatian army in '94. I don't care about that. I don't care about the Security Committee, etc. There's so much I could stick the whole Berlin Wall to an ex with these documents here. Who cares, no one. The worst problem of the Croatian state, yes and in this former system, has completely destroyed moral and ethical values. It's a problem for anthropologists, psychologists, etc. I would say that Christ was born in SFRY and in Croatia today we would celebrate the last breakfast, not the last dinner. ... By breakfast, by dawn, we'd have knocked him out, that's the problem of the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this kind of action in the judiciary, in politics, in the media, we can't go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55804	We're going to another debate, it's a respected colleague, Branimir Bunjac, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55805	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is now quite clear that Croatia is being threatened by a suspension of democracy, under the orders of Andrej Plenkovic. We're one step to the introduction of dictatorship. After an ex-Spain Provocator announced a drastic amendment to the electoral legislation, we read today that the diameter desired to choke the freedom of words, methods that have not been used since the time of Aleksandar Karadjordjevic. So he seeks and HDZ obediently executes, while the diaspora suggests that MPs be deprived of the right to replication and to be punished with 10,000 kn if they raise their voice in the Assembly. If anyone feels offended, I feel offended as soon as I see you, dear, so I'm not asking you to be punished. Yeah. And then here are the obedients here Mr. Bačić, Jelkovic and Reiner, the most rigid personnel of the modern age, obediently sitting on a committee of three members from one party, who will pass the rule, and the rule is not discussed at the plenary session, gentlemen are not debated, he is brought to them by the party and then will bring him already told by Christmas. If the Rules of Procedure had been discussed, there would have been some debate over the Ethics Code that has been discussed for a year, we would have all the parliamentary deputies say something about him, but the Regulation doesn't. The rule will be drawn up by Mr. Plenkovic. And in this way he will finally connect in his own hands what he has always wanted, and that is the legislative, executive and judicial authority. He will become a great master of the Republic of Croatia. And the Supreme Judge instead of the President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Sesse will become Mr. Jandrokovic, who will give judgments. He will speak to whom 10,000 kuna will be charged. Well, you tell me what cartoonity this government has come to after only 13 months of office. This is Mr. Bačić and the other smartass from the HDZ Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. He's who he is. UDBA wrote it, but he is the fundamental law of the Republic of Croatia. The article 38 makes it clear that freedom of opinion and expression of thought is guaranteed no matter who is offended. Freedom of expression of thought includes the particular freedom of the press and other means of communication, freedom of speech and public appearance. Well, I have a right to yell if I'm yelled at. The freedom of public appearance means that I can if you want to walk on the eyelashes. So what's the matter with you? It's my right. This is the Croatian Parliament. If you set a rule like this, so imagine what will be done in the county, in the city halls, I don't know by schools, by institutions. Well, they'll say so what if Jandrokovic can, so we can all. And let's punish all those who raise their voice, who have offended me with great greatness. Imagine the gentleman being offended, he, we insulted him. You don't want any special rights. What makes Mr Plenkovic particularly entitled to all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia? What makes him special? Tell the public he can't be told he can't be hit with a tile on the table. It's an incredible one imagination, one narcissism bordering on pure pathology. And it's not unusual, Mr. Bačić, that your representatives are therefore, and now we know why they supported human rights violations in Poland, the only one within the People's Party. Your entire regiment party voted against the suspension of the Constitution and democracy, but only you all six of you there voted for it. And now it's clear why you voted because you're thinking of doing the same thing in the Republic of Croatia. You also want to become a country case within the EU. And that's really amazing. Therefore, I want to send a clear and loud message to the Croatian public here. The HDZ announces the threat of the very foundations of democracy as an institution. It's time for us all to open our eyes, to all stand as one and tell them loud and clear this won't go away. This is a very serious thing, and if we don't do something now, I'm afraid Croatia will take a big, big step backwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55806	Thank you, pal Bunjac. Just to calm you down and all those who possibly believed that what Mr. Bunjac was saying was true. So here's the controversy with one newspaper text. The Rules of Procedure have the power of law and it is one of the acts brought to the plenary session by the majority of the votes of all MPs. So, no rules and nothing can change this Rules of Procedure because it is one of the strongest acts this Parliament brings. So I'm asking you not to make a senseless panic based on a single text that appeared in the paper. Here you go, comrade Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55807	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I have answered for the same reason because it is clear intention to stop those who speak here in this Chamber, those who are consciously doing their duty, those who are in the assembly, those who are not voting machinery and who are raising their hands for the harmful proposals that the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes here in front of the Croatian Parliament. So it is those who warn and speak that should be punished, and those who are to be collected on Fridays or some other day when the vote, who only as a voting machine raise their hands, who never say anything in this House, who receive the wages of them should not be punished, should be rewarded. They're rewarded. We know how this majority is made up and how it's bought. And now we're talking about how the President of the Parliament is going to decide how much of this is going to happen. Well, we know how most people decide, but we know who the creator of that decision is. We know who the client of that decision is and is clearly writing this article today. Andrej Plenkovic was unsatisfactory because he had to be here all day in front of Croatian MPs, MPs, us chosen by Croatian citizens and answered questions. So it didn't suit him because his opposition got rid of him, that's what the article says. And now we need to be choked here, we need to choke the freedom of speech so that Andrej Plenkovic is satisfied. If we're going to introduce fines we're going to introduce fines for the bad decisions made by this House like the Law on Privatisation, the Law on concessions, Lex Perkovic, or what I know. Let's punish it. Let's see the decisions made by this Croatian Parliament on the proposal of Croatian governments and what the effects of this decision have caused. We are going to punish for this, not for what we are saying here in the Croatian Parliament. So you go openly against freedom of speech and that's what's outrageous. After you shut down the parliamentary investigation committee so as not to talk on the committee about what you've been doing all these years, because the real witnesses finally started coming, the paperwork finally started coming out. You are announcing through the new law closing the archives, you are going into asphyxiation means freedom of speech in the Croatian Parliament. So where's this going? How far is this going? I would like to know what my colleague Bacic will say now, which is part of this task force that prepares this asphyxiation of parliamentary freedom, freedom of speech, expression of parliamentary representatives. So imagine we are protected by immunity that someone cannot speak to us for what we say in the Parliament, and now President Jandrokovic, on the orders of the prime minister, is going to take it away, to take away our freedom of speech, to go against the Croatian Constitution. But it won't pass, I repeat it won't pass, we'll find ways to speak and warn about what you're doing and what you've been doing. So if we have to pay the fines, we'll pay them, so we'll pay the fines, but we'll talk and you won't stop us. So you certainly won't stop us from saying what the citizens are sending us. Our voters expect us to talk, they send us and warn us of certain things and ask us to bring these things out here in the Croatian Parliament, and you would stop it. What is this insult, what insults have it been when the Prime Minister was here in Parliament when there was a report from the European Council? What kind of insult was it here that I don't know that he was so offended? And the fact that he doesn't want to answer questions, which he didn't want to answer to the representatives of the Bridge about Agrokor, means he refused to answer when the government called off. What's his problem with what he inherited and what his party was doing and what they're still doing, so that's your problem, but you can't shut up the opposition. It's not done, it's not done anywhere in the world. This is not an absolute monarchy, this is a parliamentary democracy. One of the key tasks and duties of each representative is to speak in the Parliament, not just to vote on Fridays. When Bacic sends you a message we vote for the first point like this, for the second point like this, for the third one from the HDZ Club. It's not the sense of Parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55808	Thank you. So don't worry, you'll have as much freedom of speech as you've done so far, and no one has ever thought of contesting the right of MPs and MPs to speak. And this is a newspaper text, and so far, it has not happened that we are polymizing as a Parliament with a single newspaper text and we are accusing someone of being responsible for the news text. So I really can't answer for what's written in the paper. I have announced that we will go to changes in the Rules of Procedure, but certainly not in such a way as to challenge anyone's right to speak. Well, that would really be democratic and never make up their mind. Here you go, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55809	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Both the Bridge and the Living Wall are a little five minutes here in the Parliament to show all the luxury of populism. Transferring HDZ to want to silence the Bridge and the Living Wall and everything here in the Croatian Assembly representatives of the opposition clubs is simply a lie, not to say another word. In fact, never in the history of this 27-year-old Parliament has there been this much debate of unfounded, populist as it has recently been. And HDZ has no intention of silence you, but we encourage you to speak both in the Living Wall and in the Bridge because each of your performances raises a rating to HDZ because you are foretold. I've been listening to all the noises, and I'm asking you to keep your mouth shut while I'm talking. Just keep going, the entire political program and the work of the Bridge comes down to reading the morning press, and through that morning press, find something to blacken the HDZ behind the pay phone. It's your program, you have no other program. Your program comes down to reading the daily press, you come in the morning at 5:30 and you read what's in the press, and then for you, part of the political program all day long. You're recycling something you're asking. Well, people have read you more. Every day you come here, today is a historic day. In the last two months, according to the Bridge, every day was history, every day is history because they come with new documents that vehemently accuse someone, show up and this accusation lasts maybe five, six minutes until it's established because you here said, performed, read that it was already 5, 10, 15, 20 years ago all recycled, all explained, all determined just because you came late. You were not at all when Croatia was created, you weren't until 2013, so your memory is nothing, it doesn't exist and that's your problem. And while you and your colleague Bunjac are already mentioned, it does not pay to be depolized at all, when you mention the Rules of Procedure, then you must remember if you have so much memory that the procedure and procedure of amending the Rules of Procedure began with the heads and chin of Bozo Petrov, so the amendment of the Rules of Procedure began Božo Petrov and insisted on it. And he was so successful that he didn't even come up with a draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which was his agenda, when he came to the position of President of the Parliament, his agenda was to regulate the conduct of the MPs and how MPs must be in place. And to do a survey of which club is represented for dinner, afternoon, except in the morning when to tell a break, we would see that the Bridge is one of the most represented clubs here in the Croatian Parliament when it comes to the debate. A fellow Bolt, whether it's true or not, those who sit here all day long know it. Therefore, do not worry about the Rules of Procedure, we will prepare this Rules of Procedure in accordance with the amendment of the Protocol and the procedure relating to the amendment of the law. And this procedure will be made, everyone's opinions, everyone's remarks will be respected, but we will go to a change of Rules of Procedure, because we have announced and we believe that it is really necessary to make a change to the Rules of Procedure, in order to return the dignity of the Assembly MPs, including you from the Bridge and you from the Living Wall, so that the Parliament can normally work in a way that the parliamentary debate, lies, relying on individual debates of the Parliamentarians themselves. See how many recently there have been in the Assembly of Individual Discussions, which previously carried the work of the Parliament. There's no need, because simply with a huge number of replicas, it kills every debate in the Parliament. In the afternoon, mass representatives give up individual debates. Because it doesn't even make sense anymore after these replicas killed the debate about it, anything to discuss. Both these replicas and the way the debate is conducted, it pleases parliamentarians, who have no idea about anything. They can only replicate two or three times, and on the subject, they don't know anything about the metrics. And we are going in that direction, not to curb any democracy and speech here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55810	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Petrov's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55811	The chairman, in my opinion, was injured in Article 238 for the reason that my colleague Bačić was deliberately untrue, unless he had amnesia, i.e., syncope, at that time, at the time he participated in the work of the Presidency in the part of the Croatian Parliament and the preparation of the material. Mr Bačić stated that no amendments to the Rules of Procedure were made, but here, at least you, as then vice president of the Croatian Parliament, should have introduced him to the fact that this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, has gone away before I finally quit in your place, if that's what I'm going to say. And known reasons and political trade. And it's only in the end to tell Mr. Butch that you say and you can charge the Bridge with this and that. You have Edward Skarouki making a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55812	Comrade Petrov, you have called on Article 238. However, you should have read it, for it does not say, that a representative can complain about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because of falseness. So that's often mentioned as an argument, and that's not in Article 238, so look. Look, a colleague of the Grmoy, a colleague of the Bunyans, put out a whole series of lies at my expense, say, or at the expense of one of my colleagues, so I didn't react. You are now reacting with the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure, and in breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is not simply what you mentioned. So I'm not going with you, I'm not going to pollute, I'm not going to give you a warning, but I'm asking you not to abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your buddy, Grmo. ... No, I have a right, so come on, read your rules of procedure, you've been President of the Parliament, and you'll see that I can comment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55813	Your Honor, Mr. President, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Article 238(6) dissuasion and insult of other representatives. That's right, counterpart Bacic said that some MPs came in in the morning and means stressed which representatives of the Mosta report, that they are not there later. I'd remind my colleague Bačić to look at the official one, and he still said they were coming in in the morning because they had no idea about anything. It means what he was obviously insulting. And I would remind him to look at the statistics, who is the first agent for activities in the Croatian Parliament, who is 4 representatives for activities in the Croatian Parliament, who is the 8th representative for activities in the Croatian Parliament, so we will see how active the representatives of the Mosta are and how inactive they are. Because if we were just taking a break in the morning, as he says, then that statistics wouldn't be like that, and we're here, and Bacic knows it well, that until late evening, as long as the debates take place.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55814	Thank you. But please don't let us abuse this institution again with the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55815	Thank you, Mr. President. Articles 238 and 239 have been injured. The Rules of Procedure, namely, neither of my colleagues Petrov nor any of Grmoy's colleagues, have determined what I hurt the Rules of Procedure. So, rather than trying to replicate my exposure. And after he and his colleague, Bunjac, therefore, his colleague Grmoja and his colleagues, Bunjac, were rudely insulting, not only me, but also the other HDZ representatives, but you too, Mr. President, and the least they had to get after that, because they violated the Rules of Procedure themselves, needed a warning. So in the future, I ask you, Mr. President, that these injuries to the Rules of Procedure, which are practiced by counterpart Petrov and his colleagues, you remember immediately at the beginning with warnings. Because otherwise, they'll use a replica through the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u55816	Okay. Here we are. There have been elements here of the breach of the Rules of Procedure on all sides, we will not go with the warnings now, but I urge you once again, not to do so, therefore the Rules of Procedure should be amended, since it has not clearly defined certain situations. I will try, together with all of you, to define all of the ambiguities that we have, so that we can work much clearer and more transparently. We now move to the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, Second Reading, P.Z. No.215. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Art. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. He would now ask the representative of the proposing, the respected Lovre Kuštević, the minister of administration, to give an additional explanation of the final bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62573	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, parliamentary representatives, Mr. Secretary of State Nekic. Here is a draft Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. As the President of the Croatian Parliament pointed out in the introduction, this bill was held at a session of the Croatian Parliament on 15.11.2017. After that first reading, the draft final bill was prepared and sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for further action. I thank you again for that constructive and good debate we had during our first reading. On all the remarks, the suggestions we received on all the council committees, and here's this opportunity I'll pass on to you, i.e. to present what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has based on all these remarks and debates accepted and implemented in this final draft law that I believe you will support here with a great majority at the next vote. First, the rights of a councilman relating to council fees here we left, of course, a provision that the employer is obliged to release a councilman who is a member of a representative body, so on that day, an unpaid day off so that he can attend a session of the presidential body. But we've abolished, we've thrown out that provision that says that council fees are governed by this law. In fact, we had observations both in the parliamentary debate and on the committees that it was simply too much injure of the legislator in power and in the autonomy of the unit of local and regional self-government, that they themselves can and must decide on the amount of compensation, the way in which the compensation is paid, and we deleted that provision and left it to the representative authorities to make their own decision on the height and manner of payment of the council fee as well as the presence at the working sessions of the representative body. As far as we had criticism that, we talked here lex sheriff, lex Pharaoh, lex this, the one to strengthen powers, to prevent the representative body and citizens themselves from calling off the leader, and that is why we have made it possible for the vote to call the leader's recall not to call it only 20% of the voters in that local, regional self-government unit, but that this same referendum can also be called on the proposal of two-thirds of the members of the representative body. Why two-thirds? That's where we pulled the analogy from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The same provisions also apply to the President, or President of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think a smaller number than two-thirds would be good, I don't know the type of super-half majority, so that it would just introduce that political instability to have a few dozen next year, if not more referendums, and of course that means great costs and certain political instability, and we're betting that this is exactly the kind of provision will satisfy the increased influence of the representative body and increased influence and citizens, and the conditions for political stability will be met. As far as point 3 is concerned, these are early elections in the event of the termination of the term of office of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor. So, in the event that the head of the mandate ceases after two years, then after half of his term of office, his post is assumed by the deputy. If the deputy for some reason ended his term, the first proposal in the first reading was that the elections would not be called if it was 12 months until the regular elections. Now we've thrown out that 12-month deadline and left the election not to be called if it's the election year. This is also because there was a legitimate observation in the parliamentary debate that the government is thus overly involved in the work of the local self-government unit, that the government commissioner of these 12 months will lead the municipality, the city or the county, and of course it is not an emergency for the government, but rather for citizens themselves to choose who they think will best lead them. Today, a procedure has been carried out on the parliamentary committee, in the event that we have two deputy mayors, mayors or mayors, and when that deputy is suspended, the first deputy is whether extraordinary elections are going. Here we think there's no need to enforce the law. We have consulted with our professional services at the Ministry of Administration and the position is as follows, that if the head of office stops, he will be replaced by the first deputy from the list. So, first deputy. If the first deputy ceases his post, the second replacement takes over, and if the second deputy ceases his term, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia will appoint the commissioner and call the elections, of course, if it is not the election year. So it's analogy and, of course, we can put it there in writing, and we don't think there's any need to implement it in law. We also changed in the draft law that decisions on the appointment or resolution of members of companies owned by units of local and regional self-government must be published in the official messenger within 8 days of their adoption. There was therefore a legitimate observation that this would generate additional costs to units of local and regional self-government, since it would often have to publish official messengers within 8 days and later perhaps again within 5, 10 or 15 days after the regular assembly was completed. Here is how we would not initiate these costs we changed the provision in such a way that these decisions must be published in the next number of official messengers who follow things logically here to avoid multiplying this job and this cost of printing official messengers. We also stated in the proposal for a law that the president would be able to be resolved if the need for a president's resolution stems from a change in the structure of the administrative bodies of the local and regional (regional) self-government units, or if such reasons arise which, according to specific regulations governing official relations, lead to the termination of the work of the head's post. We did not contain such a solution in the final proposal, we threw it out just so it would not be me to say trigger, so as not to base certain leaders, so that the mayors, mayors or mayors would initiate a change of head so as not to politicise it. We have also introduced that, in the discharge of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor because of the failure to submit or withdraw the draft budget when the new mayor, the mayor, took office, was not defined in the first draft of the law within which time he must submit the draft budget and within which time the representative body must accept it. We have now clearly defined, so the new mayor, so the new mayor, after the extraordinary elections, is obliged to submit the draft budget within 45 days, and the municipal city council or the county assembly is obliged to adopt it within 45 days. If that doesn't happen then we have called for an extraordinary election to be called for both the representative body and the mayor, the mayor or mayor. And therefore, in the belief that this law will really help the quality of the work of the unit of local (regional) and regional self-government, that it will contribute to political stability, that it will contribute to the better influence of the representative body and citizens on the work of municipalities, districts and cities just so that this law will come into force as soon as possible, in order to make its benefits useful in real life as soon as possible, we have changed the provision of an item relating to the entry into force of this law. In the draft law it was eight days from the day of its publication, we have now put the day after the announcement, here I repeat exactly to begin with the implementation of this law as soon as possible, in order to get the positive effects that this law will result in. Here I am using the opportunity to finally mention that indeed the Government of the Republic of Croatia is systematically accessing the units of local and regional self-government, it is not by chance that after this on the agenda of this House of Commons and the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government that brings significantly more resources to units of local and regional self-government, so that this is one systemic approach, two laws that will significantly improve the status of municipalities, districts and cities, enable their better work, better funding, and for the benefit of all citizens living in these units of local and regional self-government. Here we are, of course, at our disposal for further interpretations and misunderstandings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62574	Thank you, Minister. We have nine replicas. The first is the honorary colleague of the afternoon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62575	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I'll start from the end of your presentation, and you've finally exposed the legal changes. You also said something about the entry into force of this law with an argument that you want the law to come into force as soon as possible to show its positive effects as possible. I don't know if any legislator would ever talk differently about the law that was proposed but that he wanted the positive effects of the law to be shown as soon as possible. However, this is not a particularly justified reason for the entry into force of the law on the day following its publication. So you maximumly shortened that constitutional deadline, which normally requires that the law enters into force eight days after the publication in the National Journal, so practically the law will enter into force the second day after the publication. This law that we've called different and lex sheriff, I think it's actually lex express or lex ex. I don't know in these two years the law that we've passed in such an emergency procedure to take effect right in the middle of the budget process that is now taking place in all units of local self-government. You are well-known as the Minister that in 2007 your party also passed the Law amending the Law on Local Self-Government which did not take effect in that term, but that the direct election came into force in 2009, as well as the other amendments to the laws which have essentially affected the system did not enter into force in that mandate, that they are changing the rules of the game that were in force at the moment when the citizens were elected by the council and when they elected mayors, you are now changing the rules of the game in the midst of the term of office, which is what is not in accordance with the Constitution, and it is certainly someone who will be quick to dispute before the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62576	Does he want to answer? No, I don't. Then let's go to another replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62577	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Kuščević. “ It doesn’t matter where the wind blows, ” says one proverb, “it’s important how we set a sail. ” In the Republic of Croatia today, according to DZS announcements, there are very favourable winds. We've got one law here, I've last said in a debate that cements the existing state. So your basic argument was to stabilise the authorities that there was no unnecessary election, to specify the procedure that could be at all the municipal chief, mayor or mayor of the city. And that kind of caused different interpretations in the public. Some believe today they can't wait for this law to be passed, some are against this law. But what's more important to me, and I'm sorry you didn't talk to me last time, and I'm asking you to answer me now. When we talk about single administrative departments in municipalities, I think this law is in that part the most important thing that it brings, and these are the changes that every municipality, regardless of the number of inhabitants, can form except, so it doesn't have to be a single administrative department anymore, but it can be different administrative departments. This is extremely important for this reason that, apart from increasing demand, other than export growth, one of the drivers of our development is European funds, which means paying European funds. And you're right, after this law comes the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, where their original incomes will increase, there will be no employment problems either, it may happen that one municipality is forming more of these administrative bodies. But what you must, as a key minister, have the tendency to reform the units of local self-government in this direction to make as many of these initiatives go from below, to make as many employees as possible, and if they are already employed, work precisely on these jobs of attracting investment and attracting funds from European funds. Are you ready to take more active steps tomorrow regarding the reform of local self-government units... of the local structure?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62578	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62579	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I am pleased that you welcome this provision on the continuation of several administrative departments, and it is good that our units of local and regional self-government, here only apply to locals below 3,000 inhabitants, can be teamed up to accomplish all those tasks that have also been created, especially the withdrawal of European funds. Yes, we are in our ministry right now in the process of considering how to allow for eu jobs, which are financed directly from the EU and the salaries of these employees to approve the possibility of hiring and breaking those 20% of incomes, but only if these salaries are financed from eu funds and during the duration of the project. So we really think about it, we have meetings with the community of counties, municipalities and cities, very soon this solution will come out in a few days, and we are confident that this provision and what I have now said will help in the better absorption of European funds by units of local and regional self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62580	Let's go to the third line, dear colleague Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62581	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I support this bill, the final draft of the law, more so than you've ever made one step in relation to that text that was in the first reading. This law is absolutely not a lex sheriff, it can only be claimed by someone who has not read it or who is misreading it. The provisions clearly show that the position of the representative body is being strengthened. According to the Constitution, citizens also exercise the right to local self-government through their representative bodies or councilors. In this regard, I support and welcome the decision that two-thirds of the council members in the representative body can initiate the recall procedure of the unit leader of local, regional self-government in such a way as to make the referendums available to them. It's one big step and it's saying that this law, what you've been saying from the beginning, is to strengthen the position of councilors and representative bodies. And in that sense, he needs to be welcomed and all those who call him lex sheriff should say that a little more detailed read this law and that he'll see that it's actually this law and... strengthening the representative body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the other thing, colleague Podolnjak says this is a lex express, so it's not, says it's not a lex sheriff, it's a lex express. If you had decided to lex express, then you would have gone into emergency procedure. And for that lex express as a colleague of the Podlonjak speaks there is a procedure in the Assembly that the law is passed through emergency procedure. There was no case here, however, a very broad debate, all the associations representing cities and municipalities and counties in Croatia were declared, there was a broad debate and two readings here in the Parliament itself said that it was a law that was passed in normal and regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62582	Nothing. Let's move on, the fourth replica, dear colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62583	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I have listened carefully to your presentation, of course I must immediately determine, despite your statement that this is a strategic approach, that this is a strategic change of the Law on Local Administration and Self-Government, but I cannot agree at all. And I can't help thinking that this whole story was made just to protect one city and one man. And let's not just convince each other that it's different than it really is. This bill shows the tendency that, which is very worrying in Croatia, things want to be centralised, to allow certain people to remain in power for as long as possible and the city of Zagreb is above all concerned. Why the city of Zagreb? You are well aware that the city of Zagreb is the largest for incomes and expenditures. And therefore, since you've never won the election in this city, and I guess you won't then it's important to have a strategic partner to protect in the coming time. We are discussing these days and will be the next item of the agenda, which are strategic companies for Croatia to be monitored, audited, controlled. So you have the strategic company Zagrebački Holding for which one audit firm has already written in 2012, read that it is in major financial problems and follows the crisis. So do you want to protect this exactly that the man who is responsible for all that must collect two-thirds of the votes as for changing the Constitution or some other things that can then join the shift. So this is very one in my opinion, very clearly a dangerous tendency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62584	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62585	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. No, I didn't say this is reform law, this is really just a law that will help better, better-quality functioning of local and regional self-government units and establish a better relationship between the representative and the executive body. I don't know where you get it from that it applies to the city of Zagreb. So this law, I think it's clear to all of us in this House and our viewers, but here I'll explain if it happens to someone else. This law will apply to all municipalities, cities and counties in the Republic of Croatia no matter what their name is. So this is not a law on a city, about a municipality, this is a law that will be required to adhere to all municipalities, cities and counties in the Republic of Croatia. I don't accept any analogy, link, or don't let God insinuate that this was done for an individual or some city because that's not the case. And as for who is in power, for example in the city of Zagreb, how much memory I serve until 2000. HDZ had its mayor or mayor in the city of Zagreb so it is not exactly here and that the elections have never been won here in Zagreb. So a good law that applies to the entire Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62586	Let's move on, 5th replica of the esteemed colleague of the bush, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62587	Dear Minister. In this initial proposal, which was the law, it was proposed to compensate for councilors, meaning they are determined by session attendance. And besides, my colleague Podolnjak suggested that the fee be limited. So it limits exactly how much it can be because we have situations where these fees are really quite large amounts and, of course, burdens the budgets of local self-government units. However, you are now in this proposal, not that you did not accept this suggestion but that you removed and that it is determined by the presence of the sittings so that you have left the possibility to receive and monthly means councillors and compensation which is not good at all and does not contribute to rationalising the costs of units of local self-government. Unfortunately, we will have to go again, or we will have situations, depending on the responsibility of the leaders or the political options managed by a local self-government unit, we have situations to go into cost reduction and where we have wasteful political options, those who want to calm down their members who are representatives of the council and who will have situations where these fees are high and that they are determined or that they can be obtained regardless of how much someone attends the sessions. So that's not a good suggestion at all, we have situations where some cities and municipalities cancel the fees, they're at an amount of 1 kuna like that. Metkovica, Vrgorca, where we had responsible representatives, and we have a situation where your amounts are very high and where we have a monthly payment. So I don't know why it went in this direction, so I'm calling you if it's possible to make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62588	Answer to the line, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62589	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, yes, we went to the first reading with the fact that we really limited the presence at the session, we even wanted to limit, limit, and tie perhaps to a minimum income in the local self-government unit, perhaps the average income in that unit, so in the city or county itself. However, we have received a number of serious remarks that this violates some legal right of the local self-government unit to regulate its own internal relations, even the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and then you have units of local self-government with larger incomes, smaller incomes, you have responsible, less responsible, we have simply accepted that criticism that this is a matter of responsibility for people sitting in the municipal, city council, the county council, we have left them to reason that, in accordance with their own and financial opportunities and also political responsibility, they have made the very decision that this is a matter that the government should not intervene, but that it should be left to them. This is the decision in line with the remarks we received on the board and also in the public debate, we kept it, I think that this will also guarantee the right to independence and addiction by law, and we hope that our representative bodies will take care of the social situation in their unit of local self-government and that these fees will be just and appropriate in amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62590	Sixth replica, dear fellow Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62591	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers, in 2012, was delegated to the Council, representative bodies because appointments to the Board of Directors were taken over by the mayor. Tim, you've moved on now, and in fact, you've strengthened the mayor even more by this law, and this representative body, and you'd agree with your colleague Bačić for the first time, that this is not a lex sheriff, I said this is Lex Pharaoh because the representative body, the only thing he'll get from the company if he's going to change something, the reports he's voting on, and the vote doesn't mean anything, because I can't, if it's bad business in a company owned by local self-government, regionally, can't change it, but whoever named him. And the founders are the representative bodies of all companies and institutions. So you've given absolute responsibility to the council because they're founders and congregations, it's the 2012 law, since 2013 and you've now strengthened even the mayor because we can't change these representatives of these congregations, companies, supervisory boards, and you've been strengthened by this now, you've just continued to strengthen and you're unconstitutionally likely because the election cycle has passed and the people have chosen both the representative body and the mayors under the applicable laws and you're now in the process of time elections, you're changing at the beginning of the law. So you're working counter-constitutionally, you're working against the interests that have chosen your representative body and you've given into the hands of the Pharaoh to manage as he pleases. I believe that in the Constitutional Court this will show that the counter-constitutional, simple elections were made when... to a law that was valid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62592	Thank you. There's no response to the replica, so let's move on to the next, esteemed colleague of the Sorceress.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62593	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished ministers, state secretary. Here's what I really want to say is already all said in this law, unfortunately it won't solve any of these problems that exist in some relationship between the executive and the representative body. There will continue to be some instability that exists, there will be no rationalisation of local self-government, unfortunately it is neither for the benefit of the citizens. I would only refer to what is stated in the amendments, what has already been mentioned by my colleague Podolnjak, and that is that, in fact, representative bodies, since the law immediately enters into force, representative bodies have been put into a situation that have begun in fact this whole process of adopting the budget under one law and then overnight will be put into a situation to actually disband them because by adopting this law the whole situation will turn 180 degrees. At least you could give some kind of deadline, which is the minimum period that's longer and that this doesn't apply to the budgets that are being made this year because it's going to come safely alone, to one chaos that won't be good for local self-government. You will clearly vote this law, it will be adopted I am safe in the Croatian Parliament tomorrow but this is bad, this is one bad message that we are changing the laws again during the budgetary process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62594	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62595	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, you've said well that there's going to be some chaos in budgeting, but you know why? Because when this next Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government is adopted, they, municipalities, cities and counties will come to about 2 billion kunas of budget and will have to quickly change their budgets to implement, to take those funds. And it's a good chaos, a positive chaos, and as for chaos to happen under this law, I don't think there's a place, units of local and regional self-government are obliged to bring their budgets to 31.12, this law will take effect in early December. In this debate, media procedures have all met well enough, here is the association of cities, municipalities and counties that support this law so that I believe that it will only bring order and not chaos, exactly the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62596	Keep going. 8th replica of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62597	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, this question of a referendum that has been mentioned several times during the first reading has not been resolved. As you said yourself, you don't really want a referendum at all, it's just a reflection of the policy that's being conducted at the state level where the referendums are being obstructed and the referendums are, let me, the highest form of expression of the people's will. So you've actually put two-thirds of the council to call a referendum here, and you know that in practice it's never actually going to happen. What's definitely wrong with that solution is that there are double criteria. So one criterion is worth a national level where 10% voter signatures should be collected and 20% in the local unit, at the national level, the referendum has succeeded regardless of the number of voters who go to the referendum and at local level only if more than 50% of voters have come out. On this side, the Living Wall will refer to the amendment procedure so that these criteria are uniformly, i.e. that the threshold at the local level falls to 10%, i.e. the result of the referendum is valid regardless of the number of people who have joined the referendum. Surely in this way the referendum will be something more but not so much more that they would cause some chaos, some kind of trouble, there might be them in relation to these two who have been in the past four years, there might be 10-ac because this existing rule means of 10% are such that actually the signatures are impossible to collect and you know it very well. So there's no need to radicalize this issue any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62598	There's no answer. And the last replica, dear fellow Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62599	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, in good faith, I believe that this amendment to the law was based on an analysis, given that all requirements practically come to this ministry for disbanding representative bodies and for determining new elections. And this is the ministry that also proposes to the government the appointment of commissioners etc.. And if they were to analyze everything from experience, which from this knowledge, then nothing in life is black and white, so is the reason why representative bodies are disbanded, why they're going into new elections, it's sometimes the head of the executive, so the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, it's sometimes the representatives of the representative body. However, it is very interesting that the most common number of reasons for not bringing up certain acts happens when one or two run to the other side and then what happens happens happens. However, what may be most important to me is acts brought by the representative body. So they bring in three more acts in the budget that define the quality of life of citizens in that local self-government unit. And I think the adoption of those three bodies needs to be strengthened and they simply oblige the leader to work on it. And what maybe, that's kind of my thinking, maybe you should think about some kind of surrogate for former headship, I think it would be then, because those headmasters are so involved in these processes, maybe they should have been given some kind of meaning. But I repeat, obviously those who, with one or two councilmen, decide the fate of what happens to them fits this story with the lex sheriff anyway. 'Cause look if in one political option they're not satisfied with the mayor, it's easy for six councilmen with the opposition to sign off and take that mayor out. If it requires one or two, then it's obvious because of some self-interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62600	Thank you. There's no response to the replica, so let's go to the board's reports. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is a respected colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62601	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, my colleagues and colleagues. This Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on local and regional, the Regional Self-Government will be supported by the HDZ Club. At the very beginning, I would like to commend the promoter, the ministry that we had done in the first reading, so that we have an even better solution not only nomotechnically but also essentially. It should also be pointed out that all the remarks raised through the debate were parliamentary committees, either parliamentary representatives were discussed, mostly and adopted, regardless of which side they come from, which is not a very common case. There were, of course, those remarks concerning other laws such as the Budget Law, the Law on Fiscal Responsibility of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, which could not be classified and amended within this law. When it comes to amendments and additions to the law, there has been a lot of talk, and it has caused heated reactions so that it has begun to say that the mayors, mayors and mayors will now be immeasurable, small deities, untouchable, as this law strengthens the power of executive bodies and weak municipal, or city councils and county assemblies and representative bodies, which is not true. However, these amendments have increased deadlines in which a referendum could be called for the impeachment of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputy mayors. We have now seen that in this final proposal compared to the first reading and the proposal that we had in the first reading, we have the possibility that two-thirds of the members of the representative body should launch a referendum and not just 20% of the total number of voters in order to call off leaders and executive bodies. Furthermore, body leaders will no longer be able to change in the election year, someone who has been a volunteer for 3 years cannot become a professional in the last year so that three years a volunteer cannot become a professional in the last year in order to use those benefits six months of full pay, and later another six months of half. The amendments also oblige the mayors, mayors and mayors to propose a budget. As far as local committees are concerned, it has been the mayors who have been disbanding the Council of the Local Committee. It is now being transferred to the representative bodies, so that the election schedule and the disbanding of the Council of Local Committees will constitute a municipal, or city council. The municipal and city councils, and the county congregations, remain those who adopt the general acts of the units and through these acts create the development of the local community. These are the leaders, so the municipal chiefs, the mayors, the mayors who have to act on these acts. They are the promoters, but if the City Council and the County Assembly are modified through amendments or in some other way, they are obliged to work on them right now. So, for example, a strategy for the development of a city, a spatial plan, a public needs programme in sport, culture, a social welfare decision as well as a budget are all acts taken by representative bodies, and the mayor has to work on them. The problem of budgeting is a blockade for local self-government units, making it difficult to work and function normally in the city, the municipality. In the period from 2013 to today, we had 50 cases like this. Even in some we have had two times in four years of early elections. This is sufficient proof that it was necessary to change and intervene in this law so that these two bodies could function in a more qualitative way. Some claim that this law is being heard again because of certain mayors and that there are no major damages due to these early elections. They figured out how much it comes in a smaller unit of local self-government, so they say maybe 50 thousand kuna, somewhere up to 500 grand at most, and that's not some reason why the law needs to be changed. I'm sure we shouldn't and shouldn't change the law for the mayor's sake, not for the councilman's sake, but we have to because of our citizens. We'll remember the case in the town of Split. For example, when students and students could not receive scholarships, when associations could not obtain funds for work even though the funds were secured. So the money was, but only because the budget wasn't passed. So politics and politicians couldn't agree and that's why there was a blockade. Now I'm asking all of you who say it's no great harm and expense to what that student, his parents, is it a shame. It's a big shame that there's money, but because of some I'd say political manipulation or because I don't know the mayor wanted to cause or the city council, early elections, and make a blockade in the whole city, that's why they suffer the least guilty. So we have to, and we're doing this law right now, so we're asking each body to bear responsibility for its part. If the mayor, or the municipal chief and mayor does not propose a budget for this, he is responsible. And that's why he has to go. If he proposes a budget and did not adopt the municipal, or City Council, the County Assembly, or I would not say to adopt it as he proposed through the amendments, they can influence it the way they want to, of course, within the legal frameworks. At that time, the representative body is responsible and the representative body will be disbanded. If there are any changes that are not the executive body, i.e. the mayor or mayor consensual, he may withdraw the budget. If he pulls it back, it's his responsibility again. Critics say the representative body had the only option to oppose the commissioner in an effective way and in fact they were forced to talk in such a way. It's sad if the councilors and their leader are in charge, they only talk about what they're told is the chair shaking, and because they're not going to act as mayors, commissioners or councilors anymore and for the loss of some fee. It is their duty to talk to citizens who have given them confidence. And we are convinced that this is exactly the kind of bill where everyone will bear responsibility for their part, that it will come to this. Although many MPs today talk about the budget and this cooperation between the representative and the executive body we couldn't quite see when the debate on the state budget in this assembly was a quality debate. I mean, we had the biggest mess back then. Although we can see, tomorrow we'll certainly see a large number of amendments. But parliamentarians did not take advantage of their ability to point out this problem through individual discussions, because here we see that the proposals presented in the first reading in this assembly, that the ministry and the promoter have accepted it, and it is possible that then it would be more likely to accept any of these amendments. As regards the referendum on the impeachment of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor and their deputies, it was prescribed by the current law that it should not be called before the 12 months since the elections were held or the previously held recall referendum. The deadline is now reduced to six months when it comes to the financing of units of local self-government, so once again it is the responsibility of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor to propose a budget more in force in the current law would come at the same time, so that the only proposing leader of the local (regional) unit and the regional self-government proposed the budget could and itself cause early elections. Now, if he does not propose, he is solely responsible, and if no amendments do what the council wants to do, then the disbanding of the representative body will take place. The criticism is also that these mayors and mayors stay in their chairs when the budget is not passed, while representative bodies and council members remain ficus and that one rule is at state level and quite different at local level. If, at the state level, the parliament does not adopt the budget by the end of the first quarter, then both the Parliament and the Government will be disbanded. It should also be pointed out that the mayor, the mayor and the mayor are elected directly by citizens, so he is not elected by the County Assembly or by the Council, unlike the government is elected by the Parliament and then he cannot be treated in the same way as the Parliament and the Government. This law would prevent members of the representative body from proposing amendments to the draft budget of that amendment if they propose a scenario. The only authorised draftor of the budget could directly challenge the disbanding of the council, i.e. congregations along with their disbandment. Now I can see I'm about to end, so I'm gonna have to hurry up a little bit. In fact, compared to the duration of the term of office of members of the representative body, it was necessary to intervene in this law, or to bring it into line with the Law on Local Elections, because we know that, under the current law, the mandate was four years, and according to the law on local elections every fourth year, there are elections in May, and then we know that the mandate cannot last for a full four years. The current law also required the establishment of a single management department for those municipalities and cities of up to 3,000 inhabitants, now it is left to the will of the establishment of either a single or a larger number of administrative departments, which is fine, since it has municipalities and cities that have different needs and also financial capacity, so why not give them that freedom. Also more units can now, independently of spatial connection, form joint administrative departments. And finally, it would point out that this law will surely achieve that goal of obtaining political stability, rationalising the system that we will gain continuity in the work of the local and regional self-government systems, and precisely that of our efforts to strengthen the responsibility of both the representative and the executive body, that everyone is responsible for their part. The HDZ Club will support this final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62602	Thank you. Six is a replica, the first is the esteemed colleague of the Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62603	Dear colleagues. At the beginning of your presentation, you said that, as a rule, the Proposer adopted a number of remarks and suggestions given in the debate on the basis of the first reading debate. If that were the case, then we at the Most Club would not personally submit eight amendments to this final bill because the motioner has not adopted in much of the views that I was talking about, here starting with the entry into force of the law, the council's fees, the institution of mutual disbandment on the budget, means those essential topics. The promoter adopted one suggestion that the government's commissioner would not be on the job for a year, and that is correct, but do not say that he accepted the position to allow the representative body to make a decision seeking a referendum on impeachment. I have proposed a solution that you have originally incorporated into the law in time, which is that this impeachment can be initiated by a decision of qualified majority of all members of the representative body, not by a two-thirds majority. And that institution that I'm going to talk more widely about in the presentation will prove to be an institute that's impossible to achieve one such majority. So to install something that is truly impossible and that will prove to be a dead letter on paper as a rule, do not say that this is the adopted suggestion that we made in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62604	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62605	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Podolnjak. I said most of the remarks from the debate were passed. Here we can read the proposal of Agent Robert Dolnjak regarding the Commissioner. Furthermore, the remarks by MPs among others from counterparts Bačić, Milosevic and Robert Podolnjak related to two-thirds of the members of the representative council. Those remarks you spoke about the budget also relate to the Budget Act. I didn't say and for sure that not all objections were adopted, but you must admit that this is one of the few laws of the final draft law in which numerous objections and opposition advocates are included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62606	Second replica, dear colleague Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62607	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. My colleagues Juričev-Martinchev, so let me say a few words that I fully support this presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, but I would like to highlight some more things that I think should be highlighted, and in the end I will ask you something. I would like to point out one thing that as far as I can see the most objections to this law came to the last local elections and did not receive voter confidence in these elections. So I guess now we'd like to make it as easy as possible for them to come back to the election. Which is not good at all, as you said, every election bear not only the cost, but also the delay in the work of local self-government and it is not good first of all for the citizens. We must stress that local self-government and regional self-government leaders are elected in the most democratic way. So, by direct elections as it was requested for four years, it's the law and I don't see any reason why it would try every year or two days, to cause some early elections. And it is this law that goes in this direction that does not occur and that in a precise way determines the relationship between the directly elected leader and the representative bodies. And I think that's good. Is what I wanted to ask you, do you think there will still be no use in voting the budget, by submitting amendments, which so, either do not comply with the law or are within the limits of the law and thus try to change that originally delayed budget and that it may try to be a lever to provoke, however, the vote of mistrust to the mayors and mayors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62608	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62609	Thank you very much, so colleague Felak, for sure there will be plenty of objections and dissatisfaction by the leaders of units of local and regional (regional) self-government when it comes to amendments. But if they are within the legal option and they are not jeopardizing other laws or other revenues, or expenditures, then the head of that unit of local self-government will have to treat them. There have already been presentations in the first reading, and there will be certain that there will be some leaders who will work harder on those projects that they have put forward, and put in the second plan these other projects, but that, too, stands in some way at the end. Namely, there comes budget implementation, budget implementation, rebalancing and so on, coming back to the benches of representative bodies, and they are the ones who re-provide each individual case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62610	Let's move on. Dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62611	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Juričev Martinchev, I answered the replica because you mentioned it in your discussion of the local committees. The minister, in the light of this law, mentioned that it avoids incurring the autonomy of units of local self-government. I can understand that. However, autonomy and measures on the ground are two different things. I don't think the ministry should run from not introducing order. No, I'm stressing again, it's not good for some leaders to have five-time, six-time higher salaries in the same unit of local self-government, I mean the same size, same powers, by financial capacity. The truth here has even been thrown out of the law to regulate and compensate the council. But now back to the local committees, direct involvement of citizens. It would be interesting to see if the Ministry of Administration had data, how many units of local self-government, there are actually local committees that have their own financial independence, which manifest in their account, which they have. You can see that it's actually a defeating data. In fact, all the declarations, all the aspirations of the developed world, are going to make the decision as direct as possible, as close to the citizens. And in that sense, the Ministry of Administration should take a step. He shouldn't be afraid of taking autonomy. Let's make it even. Because you see, in March of this month, we have a decision in the Zagreb Assembly, to make sure that the presidents of the city districts are determined a fee of 7750 kn gross. The chairman of the local committee, £3875 gross. You know what it is in small municipalities? Well, this is science fiction. People out there in small municipalities say that the administrative body should take care of the local board. But he needs to be worried. Perhaps this law should, but perhaps this law should take advantage of the possibility that we should already form administrative departments, to form an administrative department that will take care of local committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62612	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62613	Dear colleague Zhagar, you mentioned among other things the salary of the officials, meaning mayor, chief of the same units of local self-government. I must correct you that there is a law that regulates those wages. So it's true, if the unit of local self-government below 3,000 inhabitants, what coefficient and base can be so orderly? Of course, that leader will not allow his principal, or counselor, to have higher incomes than he does. And that's how it works, I'd say systemically, so that's how it's regulated. As far as local committees are concerned, the mayor has so far had power and is now transferring it to a representative body. So, as they will disband, so will they, as they have so far had only the power to call elections for local committees, now they can disband.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62614	Thank you very much. The answer is here. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62615	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, therefore, I would just like to comment on what has already been said in the replicas by my colleague Bulja, how this bill actually implements an anti-constitutional provision that now the power to appoint and disband, i.e., resolved members of the board of directors at the local self-government unit, is being transferred from the representative bodies to mayors, mayors, or mayors, which is not true. This has been the case so far and is in line with the Law on Commercial Companies which indicates who appoints and solves it as well. So, what the paper in this law is just that there is no longer a obligation to deliver the decision to the representative body because it is unnecessary, since these decisions must be published in the official publication of units of local and regional self-government. And as such, I believe that many other things that are more detailed in this proposal are in favour of the better functioning of the units of local self-government, and so are the more detailed powers of the Government's commissioners, as well as what is important to justify the absence of members of representative bodies during their work in the representative body. What I must say is, it is unacceptable for me that both this law and so far in a negative sense are mentioned as a lex sheriff, our and the mayors and mayors and mayors were elected directly to the elections, they are responsible for everything they do and according to a number of regulations, sign a declaration of fiscal responsibility, etc. I believe that we must also enable them, accordingly, to justify what they have promised their voters, to give them the opportunity to manage the units of local, regional (regional) self-government responsibly. As you were mayor, please tell me how you look at it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62616	The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62617	Thank you very much, so colleague Jelkovac, thank you first for mentioning some segments that I haven't been able to mention, meaning from the board of directors, the appointment, it's really been done by the mayor, or the mayor, and he just had the duty to report to the representative body. Now there's no need to report any more than it will publish in the next official journal, so there's no delay or anything else. As regards both the Commissioner and these conditions, no specific conditions have been laid down so far and we now have from the conditions prescribed to the conditions for its appointment and for the resolution and the powers themselves are laid down in a very narrowed form. The central authority of the state administration is also responsible for local, regional (regional) self-government and will be empowered to propose appointments and resolutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62618	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62619	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, it's nice that you actually think that by this law, I'm going to say so to prevent all these instabilitys that you reported, which you stated in your debate that there was a delay in the payment of scholarships, that there could be no compensation for high school transportation etc., etc. I just don't think so, because that's not how we're gonna solve the instability. You're always, you're now going from that premise, okay, the representative body is going to the election, they're probably going to get a list that will be supported by the mayor's majority, and then we're going to have some kind of stability. What if it doesn't, what if it doesn't? We've had about a year of an election process. So it's not good, it's just in that, in that thing it's not good and it's not right. Here it simply defends itself, defends one principle why this law is not good, defends the principle of one development of local democracy where you have to go to involve more people. The representative body is both the Constitution and the local self-government representative of these people, so it is clear that the two documents that the Croatian Parliament actually adopted and ratified, so this is very clear. We have to go to include more citizens in that. And the impression created in this law and these legal provisions is that we're actually shutting down the citizens and we're turning it all over to the executive leader. I'm saying it from the position of executive leader. So someone who got 72% in the election a few months ago. It's, it's just facts that, I don't know, I don't know how to defend them at all. The leader means, we still have that situation, so the leader doesn't actually carry any sanctions unless he proposes a budget. And they're just gone, he can suggest it now, he can pull it back, then he's got a date again, so we don't have it there, that's it, it's completely unclear and it leads everything towards being done for certain people and unfortunately to reduce the role of the representative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62620	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62621	Thank you very much. I congratulate you first of all on your election result, that speaks enough about your work, but the accent is that everyone is responsible for their part. So if the mayor doesn't propose a budget, he's responsible. If it proposes a budget to the representative body and does not adopt it, it shall not, by amendment, modify it in its proper manner, be responsible for the representative body. Why should the mayor, if he wishes to purposely cause early elections, by failing to submit his budget, lead to the fact that the representative body should also be disbanded on what must be re-election. I think this is the best solution because everyone answers to the citizens. So the mayor in the front row is responding to his citizens. And it'll fit if you don't suggest a budget or as you said if in the day it pulls it back. The same thing, so if he pulls it, if he's not satisfied with that budget, he's the only one going to the polls again and the representative body stays in the same system that won the previous elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62622	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62623	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, so here are some things we might agree with, and no, and I am one of those local leaders, the mayor, I'm not going to brag about the election result, it was in the first round, but it doesn't matter here at all right now. There are some things in this law that should be improved and defined and perhaps settled, we talked about in the first reading, that is what you said that the members of the Council will be able to influence the budget with amendments. And you've also connected to this tomorrow's state budget where it will be possible for the amendments. And you know for a fact that tomorrow the amendments of those in the coalition will pass, I will give you a fine example tomorrow. And every mayor when they choose him first sees that he has stability in the city council or municipal if he is the mayor or the county assembly if he is mayor and of course he sees that he has stability, that he can bring and implement, in the end and what the citizens have chosen him for, his election programme. And there's what I've been saying about the development strategy of a city that's been working for many years and we should work on, which is brought by the mayor with professional people and by which we should work. And then someone from the opposition who's in the council can change it or just out of some ink maybe, some amendments you actually didn't plan on. And of course you can accept something, you don't have to, nothing obliges you to do it. Because after all, we all do some budget rebalances at the end of the year. You've got a year with which you can work as mayor uninterrupted. There comes a rebalancing you say unfortunately the funds weren't as we're going to listen here tomorrow because there's no money for all that and you know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62624	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62625	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Kovac, how about tomorrow we'll see about that. But here's your point when it comes to appointments and resolutions and announcements in the official messenger is respected in this law. I agreed with you, I remember the debate in the first reading when it comes to fiscal responsibility. Unfortunately, this does not apply to this law, but to the Law on fiscal responsibility. Therefore, I think that there was a place and time to look back in our individual debate for 10 minutes, and perhaps open our eyes to some others, as well as to the minister that this project and what needs to be changed in the state budget is something that the rest of us will also support. There's no need to lose hope, no energy, and we all know how it works. I used to be an opposition parliamentary representative, and that is unfortunately so that that voice is heard less.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62626	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to the next club representative. That's the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Batinic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62627	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. What we in the HNS believe is that these amendments and additions to the law characterise several key things primarily balance, inclusiveness and responsibility. The balance between the local leader and the representative body, i.e. inclusiveness means they will have to work more on mutual cooperation and responsibility far greater than they may have been in practice so far. And all of this should result in greater concern for the interests of citizens, for the interests of local, regional self-government than it has now been. The HNS will support these amendments to the law. In my debate, I will also briefly look back on what has been done through first reading and suggestions and comments and certain considerations that we agree with, which we cannot simply agree with. Obviously, we all forget that in 2009 it was a turning year when local leaders, regionalally elected directly by the name and by the last name of the direct will of the citizens. Until then, the representative bodies had that possibility. Furthermore, the budget is referred to as a turning point. These amendments now and I am pleased to see that the proposal has been accepted, that two thirds of the members and members of the representative bodies can launch a referendum procedure in which it would then be seen whether a particular head is not doing his job well, that it can be replaced if there are justified reasons. Furthermore, this part of which has been respected, and this was also the proposal by the CNS that the law does not restrict the way in which compensation will be paid and amounts to compensation for representative bodies primarily for the reasons that it does not comply with the European Charter. Equally, it is part of a decision that only the City Council must make and therefore we believe that the State's interference is not in place. As far as the structure is concerned, it is possible for the representative body to adapt the structure at local, regional level to its needs and also to its possibilities. What this law generally sees is the establishment of one I said at the beginning of a balance. So far, you have had the possibility that either the head of local self-government or the representative body could have caused a political crisis, or a new election. The Head of the Local Self-Government simply did not give the draft budget, and the representative body had no possibility either through amendments, nor through discussion, to change the budget in substance, or if the Head of the Local Self-Government gave the representative body an examination of the budget, they did not either put it on the agenda or hold a session. Therefore, we consider these changes to be good because balance is being established. The same is the shared responsibility between the leader and the representative body. As for the misunderstanding of a part of their colleagues, or they simply do not want to understand and accept the fact that the leaders are elected directly by the will of the citizens. And when you look at the election results from municipalities, cities, the county all the leaders elected were given more votes than any list. Whether it has an absolute or relative majority so that I can, I mean, regret it, for such thinking simply because it's exactly what they're talking about. It says the will of the citizens is denied. Well, this is exactly how the will of the citizens is denied. It means that the representative body that received the absolute number of votes replaces the local self-government leader who received more votes. Obviously it's either a misunderstanding, I wouldn't say that someone here is having trouble collecting and subtracting, or it's simply about denying those facts that are actually what they are, and the figures don't lie. As for the relationship between local self-government leaders versus the representative body, that is the key line of inclusiveness, of course, that all, the vast majority, perhaps a small number would even dare to show absolutely everyone who has been elected, that they have chosen the lists, especially those who have expressed their personal candidacy to want to work in the interest of citizens of the improvement of their environment. They simply need to start talking, as well as members and members of the representative body, which so far has not been the case in the vast majority of environments should start reading the laws, urban acts, the budget law, the rules of procedure which they have and begin to study a little more in detail how they can, with amendments, correct the budget and impose that part of the projects, the programmes from their programmes where they have received a number of votes. Of course, it doesn't mean it'll always pass. Democracy is also the law of numbers, most decide both here in the Parliament and in the representative body. Equally, there was a proposal here that the half majority could initiate a referendum. I don't think the analogy with the Parliament can simply replace the Parliament as the bodies electing the Prime Minister and we can't pull any parallel with the local level. As regards the very act of budgetary adoption, it was also said that there was a possibility, namely the question of the amendment whether they were submitted in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, etc., so I want to believe that no one will be able to act as representative body or most of them have to vote on the amendment that they will propose a conflicting decision because it is simply not possible for this law to prevent it. Although I have had a lot of doubts about the decisions of some leaders, as well as members and members of the representative body, it is known very well that, to what level, the amendments in the budgets can be changed. Can you change the amount of employees' salaries? I don't think so. Can you change some donations prescribed by some other laws or capital aid or something like that? You can't. And we had in previous years before these last local elections and situations. Of course, then all of these central administration offices that should be the mediator, or that should give a word to these things. I want to believe that the vast majority, especially those who are local leaders and members and members of representative bodies, will accept this possibility, that all together in the interests of citizens will work on as much communication as possible in the interests of the citizens themselves and I believe that there will be no need for new elections except in the case of some more force. The HNS Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62628	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62629	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Batinic. As regards the establishment of administrative departments in local self-government units, I am aware and in the past replica, I have pointed out that although we are making the law for the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we cannot partially bring it for certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, not all are in the same position. If you remember here, then he was Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic, he proposed so-called. Revolving the door where the administration would come with elected authority and then leave. This has been sharply attacked because people are believed to have to choose from the competition. And now you take a small municipality where there's a single management department and there's a head of that single management department, the truth I haven't gotten from the minister's answer yet, what's going to happen the moment that the single management department is lifted and more administrative departments are set up, what's going to happen to those leaders? A good part of them has an ESS, the truth is regulated by probably a special law, but now a second reading is being set. If these small municipalities and form administrative departments who will dare to go to work in such a job because the next mayor, the next mayor may propose a second change of structure and simply those people will lose their jobs. To get into a serious job, he needs a certain experience, he needs to gain experience that will last for years, and then it will happen that after some time because of the collapse of another political option, it can be a motive for the head of that body to change the structure actually to propose it to a representative body that will change the structure and that these people remain let's say conditionally on the street. This happened in practice, it happens regularly at county level, it happens at city level, in municipalities less than what there is in the single administrative department. But that danger certainly exists to tell who will decide to go to such a Khan of Galilee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62630	Thank you. The answer of the respected MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62631	Thank you. You asked a few questions here about course that we have different opportunities to organize the structure of local self-government. The logic is that small municipalities, smaller municipalities have one administrative department, larger cities have more of that, but that is the absolute autonomy of the representative body and, of course, as an authorised promoter of leaders. Is the practice of changing the authority of the executive or representative body and changing the structure? So maybe if it's for the better, I can support it, but if the structure changes, and there are such situations, there are now after these elections that certain leaders want to be replaced by the heads of certain administrative departments, and that's the only reason why new systematicization is done, which, by the way, we also have examples in the Varazdin County that has nothing to do with it. But it has been deliberately changing precisely for the reason that people who have been in those positions for about 10, 15 years are being replaced. That's one thing. Secondly, you asked who would go to work. I agree that's a question that's not only in front of the Minister of Administration, but in front of all of us. The way to solve it, and that's what's been announced on the board today, and the minister has announced. So it's about preparing for one let's say a more comprehensive strategic approach a little bit more quality and that it's finally going into public administration reform as such. It's a huge process. So we have to start from the bar to the top or vice versa, however they go, they're just human. If they do their job in a quality way, if they are evaluated as to what the law should give them the opportunity to change it if it has a very good, excellent grade and then to change it. How much can this be solved by law I believe it is, but that's what's coming to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62632	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62633	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I agree with your debate. Most of the time, I just want to point out this relationship that you were talking about, the relationship between the head of the unit of local, or regional administration and the representative body. Unfortunately, this law is called lex sheriff as some object of ridicule as if our leaders were not chosen by the will of citizens, especially now that we choose them directly. Then we make fun of the will of the citizens in this way. I personally think that the representative body should be more corrective and this second part already when you talked about the amendments. Well, not every leader in his campaign can come out with a concrete program, with concrete activities. And now someone with their amendments can cut down on any of his programs, not allow him to realize. How will he realize the projects he has offered? And secondly, perhaps not listed in this law, and I also think it should be regulated, which is. That's what you're coming aboard with the ready crew. When you come as the elected mayor, the mayor, the mayor with the leaders who may not match your vision or will not be able to fulfill the visions, activities, programs that you have offered in your pre-election program. So I think that our leaders should be the same as the ministers, that you're coming with the team and leaving with the team. Because it's become a job and now you have to change the systemization, invent whatever nonsense in collaboration with, you have to come to a representative body and with a representative body it's now a coalition of some kind, and then it turns into a trade. So I think there should be a leader who's chosen just as we choose to give him and that freedom and the possibility that he comes with his team and doesn't need to invent and play those games about changing the systemization to bring someone into his team.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62634	Thank you. The answer of the respected MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62635	Thank you. A fellow Sanader may agree in part. It is understandable to me, and I support the national level that the minister brings his team, but I believe that that part of the public administration is whether it is to the level of the head of the sector, whether it is the head of the county or a slightly lower category or in the city, but there should still be one constant simply for the reasons of continuity, simply for reasons of continuity of knowledge and, above all, I think that the ultimate goal and interest of all professionalising public administration. This does not mean that people working in public administration, regardless of what level they should not be or should not be members of some political parties. That's absurd, but I'm saying they should absolutely be professionals. So there are evaluations of officers, subsistences if they work quality, but I believe that the vast majority of them work that work. I don't think that's where we should maybe go to that level in that way. And it should also, so there's a local self-government leader who's able to express whether or not he's satisfied with someone. And as for this one called lex sheriffs, that's what he says most about those who use it and who say it. It's mostly people who either tried at the local level, so they didn't make it, or those who think they'd been invited to the high schooloretics who think they know everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62636	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62637	President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are in the second reading of amendments to the Law on local and regional self-government. Every time I talk about some law or some topic I try to find an affirmative part so I go, then I say but. So, I always appreciate when the minister was there and the minister was there and presented the law for a simple reason with which the minister shows that he cares about the material he does, as well as respects the parliamentary representatives to hear what they have to say. This law was about two weeks ago in the first reading, and here we have shown how two readings can be done in a relatively short time. I assume that and the date that's in the year is related to it, because here are some calculations that have already been passed. Today, the budget for Zagreb County is, or Zagreb County cancelled its assembly, so it will obviously wait for this law to be passed because it will obviously have reasons. The City Assembly of Zagreb has a budget tomorrow, but the City Assembly of Zagreb, unlike all others, has a budget in two readings, so tomorrow will be the first reading, December 21st will be the second reading. Really in the debate when we talked about this law we called it lex sheriff, we also called him lex Bandic. I am deeply convinced that this law should not have been passed, and he was not needed to Mr Bandic, who has been mentioned so many times in this assembly for the simple reason that he has shown through his way of managing that when it comes to the budget that he can always agree and especially that when the budget is in that Christmas period, he is a very broad time and all the amendments that are, he accepts, installs and then will already be what it will be, therefore, it should not be brought about. I've been asking myself a question on the board, and I keep asking myself why? If I get some kind of decent answer to why it goes into one law change, why does it seem, I don't have to agree with that, I can think it's a certain way wrong, but I'll take it somebody decides. I still don't understand why. I understand only because it can be, so we can prove that, and that's why. So, we had one model, is he the most ideal, we can discuss it. Could've been better, it's the same topic of discussion. But we had one model that worked, a model where we knew what and how to do it, and now we decided to cut through that model with another model, and the reason for that was stability. You know, the greatest stability is in autocracy, there's absolute... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62638	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62639	... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62640	If it's all right with you... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62641	I suggest you take a break, I can continue my debate behind it, I think that's the only thing that's decent right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62642	I agree, I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62643	I don't have any problem with the remaining 11 minutes of my debate, I'm doing it at a time when it'll be acceptable, so I don't think I have anything against a break at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62644	I agree, and here he is, and I thank you for your understanding. I propose a 10-minute break, requested by a colleague... Anyone else want a break from the club? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If not, I'll see you at 11 and 50. It's 11:00. 40 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.50 HOURS]] It's 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62648	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. So we continue to discuss the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the second reading of P.Z. No. 215. I would like to remind you that the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. We were standing at the hearing of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. She spoke to a respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash. So we should continue with that debate. But before, here I see a colleague of Bunyan, a colleague of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62649	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today the debate on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government is suspended. Let me begin by making one parallel between the adoption of amendments to this same law in 2012 and today's debate and the likely adoption of this law in 2017. Five years ago, there was a voice of SDP and its coalition partners, and the majority of them were also looking for a new mechanism, how to define the relationship between the representative body and mayor, the mayor and the mayor, being that they were not satisfied with the first 5-year experience of application or actually a few years of experience of the law. And that's when the SDP moved a few serious changes. It was then, thanks to them, that the authority of the representative body was deleted, to initiate its decision a referendum on the possible recall of the executive body. In the first version, they even wanted to eliminate a possible referendum that would be initiated by citizens for the mayor's impeachment. They provided only possible mutually resolved in the event of a budget failure, i.e. the withdrawal of the budget by the mayor, the mayor or the mayor. In a public debate in which I participated at that time in NGOs, only as a professor, I advocated that the referendum on impeachment of the mayor should remain in the law, as a possibility for citizens, those who chose the mayor, to have the opportunity to call him off and to initiate it themselves. And yet in the end, that variant remained in the law. However, in a way that actually makes it impossible to hurt the same. The referendum, which will be initiated by 20% of citizens and on this basis, will be decided by the majority, but provided that the majority accounts for at least 1/3 of the total number of citizens, has never been reached in all these years. So, a mechanism has been installed, which has never really shown itself, as a mechanism, which can really serve citizens, that in some situation where these grades can run this referendum and finally, resolve, recall, some mayor, mayor or mayor. Practically, after the elimination of the possibility of the representative body initiating the referendum, only this mechanism remains around the budget. Here, now practically 5 years later, the new parliamentary majority wants to reverse these mechanisms and in some other way define the issue. But here's what's going on right now. It is now seeking to eliminate the possibility of both disbanding both the representative body and the executive body in the budget, due to political stability. At the same time, the referendum, which would be initiated by citizens, remains in the same way regulated, but now, based on our remarks from the debate in the first reading, wants to re-install the mechanism so that the representative body can launch a referendum on the mayor's impeachment. But the referendum proposed by this provision in a way that is initiated by 2/3 of the representative body is actually a provision that will certainly not be used. In the first version of the law since 2007, the qualified majority of members of the representative body, so the absolute majority could initiate the referendum. And in the debate, I've also asked on the committee of proposing representatives, then the secretary of state how much of this provision has been used in the first five years how has this legislative provision been in force? How many representative bodies have really abused that authority that it has become so speculative that it should have been deleted? You know how much? Twice in two small municipalities, the representative body requested a referendum on the mayor's impeachment by a majority of council members. Two small municipalities in the first 4 years of office until the legal provision is shut down. Is that abuse? Is that mass-used powers that the representative body had? I don't think anyone reasonable will agree that it was a violation of political stability, needless initiating the mayor's recall, a strong referendum that they feared in public. So, now that we return power to the representative body that in some situation where it cannot cooperate with the executive body, when it violates the decisions of the representative body, when it may lead to negative financial results, when it may receive a negative solution to the State's audit, when it may receive a confirmed court indictment, when some other conditions may arise which make it impossible to further cooperate with the representative body, the executive body. It is reasonable to leave this power to the representative body to hold a referendum on the impeachment of mayors, mayors or mayors by qualified majority of all council members. So, the representative body in the final, it must be made clear, does not decide whether the executive authority will remain in office, it only calls a referendum and gives citizens the opportunity to decide. That's what was in the original law, and that's what the expert public stands for, and that's what we stand for in MOST, but it's not 2/3 of the majority but a qualified majority of all councilmen. And I ask you not to make any analogy with the President of the Republic whose resolution is due to the violation of the Constitution may suggest 2/3 of the representatives of the Croatian Parliament and what is decided by the Constitutional Court. So, absolutely by procedure, this has no resemblance and we cannot mix the President of the Republic as a constitutional category and mayors, whose direct choice is not a constitutional category. Allow me to read on behalf of the club and, unfortunately, to delete the institution of mutual disbanding the mayor and representative body when making the budget except in that exceptional case when and for the second time the representative body would not bring the budget after the first time has been disbanded. The fact is and we believe that this authority has not been overused, and it was in fact the only option, one real possibility for the representative body, to enable citizens to re-determine the selection of the executive body and the representative body in the event of inability to cooperate with the executive body. I personally did not consider this to be the best solution for this to happen in budgeting because in this situation citizens who have to wait for months for the realisation of capital programmes and public policies in their municipality, city and county are suffering. That's certainly a problem. But there is a possible alternative solution that I have proposed for years, which exists in the Italian direct choice model of mayor, which is a model of mutual vote of mistrust between councils and mayors. The Council makes it qualified for the majority of all members of the representative body, the mayor does so by resigning from office. It is a provision that exists in the Italian Constitution, which applies to regional levels and equally to levels in cities and municipalities. It is very rarely the fact that the Council votes non-confidential to a mayor with whom it really cannot co-operate for certain important political or ethical, moral reasons but there is a better quality because it can be realised at any time, not in the adoption of a budget but at some point important in that local community when there is indeed an inability to cooperate between the representative body and the executive body. To the amendments we propose to this final bill, we are proposing that model as well. What is extremely important to us and what we want to eliminate these amendments is the timing of the entry into force of this law. Simply under the rules of law and constitutional law, this law should not enter into force during the term of office of this term of office of the representative bodies and executive bodies. The rule is that a law that substantially changes the rules of the game in relation to the executive and representative body does not enter into force in the middle of the term of office. And that rule was generally followed by legislators before. So here is the Croatian Democratic Community when it passed the Law on Direct Choice in 2007 in some situations this principle was respected by the SDP, although not in 2011 when the famous Lex Komadin was adopted when, due to several officials, the Law on Local Self-Government was changed practically in one day to allow a mayor or mayor to leave office to go to office in the government while the elections will not be held in local self-government. That was the essence of the law. But then, just then, you colleagues and colleagues from HDZ made a request for the Constitutional Court's assessment of constitutionality by slowing down the fact that the law passed by the parliamentary majority is changing the rules of the game right now during the term of office. And you were right. I would have told you that as a professor of constitutional law if you were right. I am only sorry that the Constitutional Court has never decided on this issue, because it would resolve some legal doubts and then we would have a clear legal situation that this law can also not be adopted by way of effect within one day of publication and apply all the legal provisions even to the course of the adoption of the budget that is now being adopted. But I assure you that it is very likely that a representative body of them will find more than 570 who will have the authority to run under the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court request for an assessment of the constitutionality of this law that the Constitutional Court will have to decide within a month. Such a deadline is set by the Constitutional Court Act. Perhaps it will be too late to reflect on the adoption of the budget by the procedure that you have imagined by withdrawing the budget from the mayor by returning the budget to the decision-making period that we have left. It's December 1st. The budgets in the local self-government are already being passed these days, and right now these days we will change the law and completely amend the rules of the game in which the role of mayors with a clear possibility of refusing to accept the draft budget amended by the amendments of the representative body, to withdraw it and to return it at some point before 31.12. back to the procedure and to decide on it by 31.12. I believe that even the promoter does not know how this game of the representative body and the executive body will be reflected within these months when this law takes effect practically in an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62650	We have 13 replicas. The first one was answered by a respected colleague, Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62651	Dear colleague Podolnjak, I could replicate the whole part of your replica, but here's what you've finally said yourself. The entry into force of this law at the time when the budget is adopted will also make it impossible for the city council to challenge, let's call it a mildly called crisis and re-election. Why the reelection? Is that what citizens want? Well, they had an election six months ago. In the sixth month, these mayors, mayors in municipalities and cities took up their duties. That's when the city councils were established. Is it malicious to use the law to challenge the cross and the destruction? Six months after the election, the voter's will is played. And you mentioned in the introduction of your statement, that the previous authority was not satisfied with the law, so they changed the decree five years ago. Yes, and that was the policy, because the 2009 law will tell you, the mayors, regardless of which political option he was good at, because he solidified the authorities and ensured the development of projects in the areas of all towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia because he disabled exactly such manipulations. And why did the law change? He only changed for one city and one mayor. And in the end, they failed, so they stayed, and the product of that and that law was 53 crises in the Republic of Croatia. None failed, and all of these cities 53, that's almost 10% of the local self-government unit of the Republic of Croatia lost for 10 years. I said here, now I repeat every kind of crisis takes cities, municipalities of time and our citizens. And I think it's a bigger crime than any... Anything to take people's time because they stop projects, nothing to do, we do ourselves, we form new lists, we go to elections, we wait for town council meetings, municipal councils [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Appointing and dealing exclusively with ourselves, and the projects stand. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62652	Thank you, colleague Klaric. My dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62653	Thank you. I was saying that constitutionally-legislatively it is questionable that the law is changed in a way that takes effect in the middle of the mandate in principle regardless of who does it, which parliamentary majority does it. And I deliberately mentioned to you that the previous parliamentary majority did so, and then you challenged it and I said you were right. You were constitutionally right. So, I speak in principle that no one should do it regardless of what parliamentary majority it was. Citizens went to these elections knowing clearly what the law is and what the possibilities of the representative body and the executive body are. These rules don't change, these rules, as you mentioned, changed the then coalition in 2011 perhaps because of one or several people. It seems to me there were three of them who went to the government and there was no choice in their county, city or municipality. and it would rightly be said that there could have been elections and there should have been elections because citizens elected certain officials, believing that they would behave for four years because it was such a law at a time when they elected those officials, not that they would be replaced by a deputy after two years. Under that assumption, they did not choose and did not know that the legislator would change that. And you have applied for constitutionality assessment to the Constitutional Court, so you have done what was clearly only politically acceptable to you at the time, but today when you make the same mistake, today you will actually request a constitutionality assessment to be submitted by the parliamentary opposition, so that party that then probably broke or some representative body, that's what this is about. Constitutionally, we must respect the principle, not change the rules of the game in the middle of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62654	Thank you. Now it's up to the esteemed colleague of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62655	Dear colleague Podolnjak. You've made it very clear how the rules change as to which policy option fits. And we see now this fellow says they did it, so now we pay them back, he throws it out of the bench. Well, I don't think it's an interest, I think it's an interest to change the laws to improve them, not to change how they fit and what they do against the Constitution, to change the rules now that an election cycle has been made and after people have been chosen by certain rules. And not only that I've heard from you, we don't have a chance right now except for this referendum that can hardly succeed, we don't have a chance to question a particular leader of some unit of local self-government. And we know what they did, had indictments and opinions of audits, etc. So we don't leave any chance of something changing right now, and it's not only problematic what a colleague says when we have a situation that comes to new elections, even though these situations weren't common, we have situations where we have longtime mayors and mayors who have ruined their units of local self-government. What about it, is this a waste of time? A colleague's only lost time when we have elections, so maybe the elections are just a chance for a new start. ... Well, not now, I'm speaking in general, you're talking about individual cases. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's your problem, you're constantly talking about individual cases and watching a certain law suit you. I'm not talking about it. I'm talking about changing things to make something better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62656	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62657	Thank you. Well, you see, that's exactly the problem, to clearly understand that laws are being passed because of some person, because of some official. We often make laws in Croatia that are then named after one person, as we mentioned in Lex Komadin. And tomorrow someone will tell you that you're passing this law maybe because of your mayor in Split so someone will call it Lex Oprah. But that's exactly what this is about, the laws aren't passed because of one or two officials, but for all units of local self-government, unfortunately that's not the case. Unfortunately, we will not have a real possibility to sanction any mayor, mayor or mayor who will not behave in accordance with the law, the statute of local self-government where there will simply be no mechanisms for it. No one uses the referendum as we know it. No one uses the referendum all these years. No one is collecting signatures for the mayor's recall because they know that the conditions for the referendum are practically impossible. No one will use this authority for two-thirds of the councilors to request a referendum on impeachment. Why? If the two-thirds majority were to be found, it is virtually impossible to achieve that second condition that one third of the total electoral body would vote that opposition to the mayor. When you put a few numbers, when you see voter turnout in the election, you see that it's practically impossible, so nobody's even done it, all these ten years we've had direct elections. And that's why you have a problem with having to, for example, some mayor, mayor or mayor who can seriously no longer be on that duty to beg and beg to resign because there's no other way to get out of office. That's unfortunately the reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62658	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Professor. Podolnjak, you talked about the changes made by this law, I think these changes are totally wrong and I will refer to the city of Zagreb. So we have a concentration of power in the city of Zagreb for one huge budget, which is 7.5 billion kuna, the mayor who has confirmed the indictments, which is the level of his power I will show for example the functioning of the local committees. So as you know, Zagreb has four levels of government, mayors, the Zagreb Assembly, city councils and local committees. There are 218 local committees in Zagreb, and these local committees have the size of an average city in Croatia. So my local board of Spain has tens of thousands of inhabitants and recently local council members have been given the Bandic mayor's decision in some way to determine the location of the city clock that every local committee in the city of Zagreb will have to set. So they didn't decide whether the clock should exist, whether they needed an hour, even though the problems in these local schools and kindergartens were numerous others but had to determine the location. That's what happened with the parking lot. So it's about these changes being kind of cosmetic and not giving greater authority to people who are on local boards and city halls who don't actually decide anything but are actually very well paid in the city of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62660	Here is a colleague of Sladolev, since you have spoken exclusively about the city of Zagreb, I will also answer with regard to the city of Zagreb, but through the prism of legal provisions. If citizens would like to initiate, for example, the recall of the mayor of Zagreb, 20% of voters in the city of Zagreb would have to sign for its impeachment. If we know that the city of Zagreb has 690 thousand voters, it is about an eye, so let's say about 140 thousand voters. Can someone among you rationally assume that this is something that can be achieved, 140 thousand signatures just to initiate the referendum procedure? After that, the majority of those who went to the referendum must vote in the recall referendum, provided that the majority must be at least one third of the electoral body of the city of Zagreb. With 690,000 voters, this means that at least something over 230 thousand voters must vote for impeachment. Look how many candidates in the election got votes, you'll see it's an impossible mission. So no one in the city of Zagreb is going to initiate such a procedure, everyone knows it. They know of course about other major cities or counties, but I only talked about the city of Zagreb because you talked about it. And if two-thirds of the representative body, so of the 51 MPs in the city's assembly, were to launch that decision two-thirds of the decision, we will again come to the referendum. And so you can't change the mayor of Zagreb either and not the other mayors or mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62661	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62662	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Podolnjak, with much of your debate, I agree, but given that the essence of the replica is to say what I disagree about, I will say what I disagree with. In fact, as a professor, you've caught yourself as a trap that seems to me to be such a logical trap. You speak here as well as the reasoning of the law, mentioning cooperation between the representative and the executive body, so when we use these words administratively or bureaucratic executive body, representative body, and their cooperation, and even mention their relationship. Watch out, the relationship between the two bodies. Now, let's translate it into the language it has, this is how we'll understand every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. You have the election, you have that map of Croatia, you have the blue, red area, some other color. You know what that's about? According to the elected leader, it means if the chief won from this political option, then he's afraid of that color. And it's mostly mentioned. Representative bodies are rarely mentioned. And then the point of the story is, do you have a chief, mayor and mayoral majority in the representative body? If you don't, you have a problem. Then he hunts one councilman, the other councilman catches how long it takes you to have half. If you can do it great, you'll have everything, you'll have power, you'll have a budget. If you fail, your budget will drop. And now we come to the essence of this law, he says, okay, chief, you have one more chance, come on if you don't make it now, you'll have one more chance, so find that one man to solve that question. And you rightly say, so the captain would need half a plus one. And to get him... He needs two-thirds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how's that? I'm not doing it mathematically now, how can, if he can't, he should collect, so only half, a little bit more and these should take two-thirds to replace him? You're right, it's impossible to actually replace the Chief. Whether it's good or not, I don't know that's election law. It seems to me that the whole thing is the problem that we're dealing with on a partial basis now, we're approaching this problem on a partial basis and we're having problems. Or let me put it this way, can the Republic of Croatia function in power, minority power so that the Chief doesn't even have to have a majority in the council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62663	Thank you. The response of the esteemed representative of the Sub-Subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62664	You said exactly that there is an impression in the public that it is more important to elect an executive body leader and that it is then shown in some way by maps showing where a particular political option has won the mayor's, mayor or mayoral position. But unfortunately, we have completely turned the logic of local self-government because local self-government is being implemented through representative bodies and so is the provision that exists in the European Charter of Local Self-Government. So how did we manage to turn her over to us and to appear in public as if local self-government were being implemented by an executive body, so one person. Well... created a presidential system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So is it logical for you to exercise one person, as a monarch, who will appoint all persons, different supervisory committees, administrative councils, in this way manage institutions and companies that will have the opportunity and make concessions, call competitions, hires, heads of government, which can withdraw the budget and dictate what that budget will be, which all decisions will be made on its own in secret because there is no collective body, so he himself makes decisions that he doesn't even have to explain to anyone, makes them in his office, signs, publishes, or publishes. Is it a local self-government or collective body that makes decisions at a session that is open to the public, where the arguments of the ruling and the opposition are faced and where decisions are made? Imagine what's better? For me this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62665	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62666	Thank you. I am sorry that there is an opportunity to think about having the right in any way to take liberty, freedom and the right of other citizens to decide for themselves. I don't think we have a right to do that. And as Mr. Podolnjak said the same things that the SDP did and you objected to them during their term of office, you are doing today. I'd like to make no one uncomfortable, you have YouTube, you have some other search options, see what you said yourself at the time. And I don't understand how you think it's forgotten after four or five years. There's one thing I'm interested in about this whole calculation, how much a crisis of four years of bad governance costs. Is this a crisis, Mr. Dolnjak? Is that a crisis or is that a management? And here's just another example. Did Italy grow at a time when it was stable or at a time when there were more frequent elections? One more question. But never mind that, if you're there in two minutes, I'll be glad to hear it. It's one thing that matters to me if it can be changed in this law, that three thousand inhabitants of local self-government under three thousand inhabitants are moved to create more administrative departments, because in fact combined with the Law on the financing of local self-government where they are given more money and where this enables them to have absolutely no more problems. We're actually creating a possibility of much more earring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62667	Thank you. Here's a response from a respected representative of the Downworlder who'll tell you what he said before.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62668	Italy is very short, the model has existed since '93. A year to this day. The fourth century means that the model has fulfilled expectations, and that is why I recommend it. And he didn't bring any major political instability, but responsibility yes. As regards the possibility of setting up several administrative departments in small municipalities without any criteria in terms of the fiscal potential of a small municipality where there may indeed be significant income, or for this reason the possibility of establishing several departments. In my view, therefore, without any definition of the criteria of any small municipality, and we have extremely many up to 3,000 inhabitants with an open legal opportunity to establish several administrative departments. But you know what that means, more management departments are automatically more headmasters who will certainly have a higher salary that's for sure and some administrative staff who goes along with those supervisors, because each of them has to have a secretary or secretary or some other administrative staff. And certainly that will mean more employment. But here's an example that refers to the headmasters in my town as fresh as possible. 7 heads signed a letter to make their mandate available to the mayor and to be deployed elsewhere in return to the city administration. And so it is likely to happen in their place that 7 new 7 leaders will be appointed, and these 7 will be deployed as co-workers and senior advisors with a slightly lower salary. This law actually allows, and you haven't done anything to prevent such a practice that leads to the awakening of the local administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62669	Thank you. The next replica is Honored Representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62670	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Podolnjak, if you hadn't talked about some of the thesis before the very end, your exposure would have been such an ex-Catedra and you could have learned a lot about it. But you forget a few facts. When did you say that it was constitutionally questionable that the law was changed in the middle of the term of office when you would change the law? In the election year? Why wouldn't he change in the middle of his term at the beginning of his term? I don't see any opposition here. Although when you talk about representative bodies you must know that they are somewhere around 8800 members of the representative bodies in the Republic of Croatia. The last time you spoke to me before, you spoke about the European Charter of Local Self-Government. You didn't even mention her today. You only touched one part about Italy as the Italians handle it, and you have in our vicinity in Slovenia, Austria, Germany. How do they handle it? There are things that are related to local self-government units and that have proved to be good. So, from the draft of the Croatian state, and I know that you were involved in some things when we talked about election systems you remember, we talked about which is good or which is not, and we had all three electoral systems. When we talk about units of local self-government then we also said that this direct selection of mayors and mayors back then might not have been good, maybe it was a better model of that. We were talking about political trade at the time that he was directly elected from the list. When the captain goes, the list goes. That's when we talked about political trade. Today, it may not have changed much, but the fact is that certain trades through the Municipal Council have actually stopped the development of municipalities. And this law goes in favor of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62671	The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62672	I thank you for the replica. You will see in the last amendment that I submitted Amendment 8. concerning the entry into force of the law, that there was practice, the legislative practice of this Croatian Parliament, that the principle that the law does not enter into force in certain relevant provisions for the duration of the term of office is respected. You respected this principle in 2007, excuse me in 2007 when you passed the amendments to the laws that you introduced the direct selection of mayors but the application began of course with all the provisions of 2009 with the first elections that were made according to that model. On the other hand, the SDP respected the same principle in 2012 when it introduced a model of disbanding each other on the 2013 and post-election budget. So both of you once respected this principle, they gave up that principle in 2011 when they passed that famous law which unfortunately did not go through the constitutional procedure because the Constitutional Court for some reason did not decide for six years, and that is why for six years they did not, when they passed a law that allowed them to replace executive officials without a choice, and I told you that you were doing it now. So I only advocate the principle of not changing the rules of the game under which the citizens went to the elections knowing that these rules, as well as the officials elected by the executive and council, would not change their four-year game rules, any rule. So in this case, the rule of not voting the budget or anyone else can be material rights or something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62673	Thank you. The next replica is Branka Juričev-Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62674	Thank you very much, Vice President. So your colleague Podoljnjak has devoted much of his debate to who should have the opportunity to call a referendum on the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor, mayor and his deputies. It is because of these criticisms that the promoter has made a new decision, or we have a fundamental change that except for 20% of citizens who could have initiated such a procedure that must have been difficult to gather in large cities, not to tell the county and so on in some who have only a thousand inhabitants to gather 200 people, so that now two-thirds of the council can start a referendum. In your amendments, you're asking it to be one-third. I would ask you if you know how many cities, municipalities and counties have support in councils or congregations larger than two-thirds. It means that more than two thirds of the councilors, or assembly heads, support the work of the executive body. Well then, almost all units of local (regional) and regional self-government would have had almost all the referendums, and that requires both money and time. And I have one more sentence to say about those positions of yours that the mayor's executive body behind closed doors is signing some important acts, decisions and the like. Do you know that all the most important acts are taken by the representative body, means the municipal city council and the county assembly of spatial plans, development strategies, budgets, social care decisions, building and maintaining infrastructure, the most important decisions are made by the representative body, and it is executively necessary to implement it in accordance with these decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62675	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62676	Yeah, too bad I don't have ten minutes to answer a few of the things you said. First, what's most important is long ago wise people said that the source of corruption is the power of appointment. And the power to appoint a large number of persons on boards and boards of directors is in the hands of mayors and mayors, but that's the biggest source of corruption, some smarter people said long ago than I did. The second thing is the proposal that one third of the members of the representative body propose that the topic be included in the session agenda and that the qualified majority decide on this. Well, that was the text you voted in 2007, maybe not you personally, but your party. So I propose the same thing as you as the parliamentary majority of HDZ in 2007. So how can you say that I suggest something bad when that's what you suggested, no, now you're returning the two-thirds majority, then the majority of all MPs were qualified? So the same provision I returned in 2007, and I told you clearly that there were only two decisions of the representative body in four years of that term in 2009, 2013 only two. [[Intruder Reiner: Please don't.]] Well, nobody's gonna say it was a mass use of inflation referendums on recalling mayors, only two in two small municipalities. You yourself have admitted that this model will be difficult to achieve in the counties and larger cities except small municipalities. So are we passing the law in such a way that it can be implemented means the responsibility of the commissioner in a small municipality of thousands or two thousand inhabitants, they will be engrossed but the mayors and the great cities will be spared.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62677	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62678	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with you two-thirds of the representative body that this is difficult and the HSS proposal that this is about the supra-almost majority of councilors, to follow the referendum proposal. But I'd like to remind you that we had a law since '93. When elected chiefs, mayors at the councils. And all right, we've passed a law on the direct selection of mayors and mayors, and I think now we're disdaining the mayors and mayors who in the direct elections when they go directly with their name and last-minute trust of their citizens, now we're going to take their place. Clearly, the law is known how to change, and the second is that our judiciary is slow, which is not a verdict against individual mayors, the mayor is not a powerful one, so it would prevent them from running, that's another thing. But I don't agree that we can only change the mayors, no matter what you suggest, because the mayors and mayors were elected directly. Let's not forget that, there are mayors and mayors who were elected by four mandates who received more than 50% in the first round and now to choose them. There's a law that changes the chiefs, and the second is that it's our judiciary. And I agree with the fact that the mayor and the mayor are signing papers, the representative body is passing certain laws, and the mayors and mayors are signing it. And if there is any crime that must be committed, let the institutions do their job, let the chief or mayor be quick to condemn and no longer be able to run.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62679	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62680	Let me remind you once again when I propose an institute in this case that the council may initiate a referendum on the recall of the mayor or mayor. I'm saying that because that institute that existed for four years wasn't misused. If we had only two decisions in 4 years in 570 local self-government we can't say that we used this mechanism too much, that the councils were looking for referendums every year, two in two small municipalities. What you were saying to your colleague about situations where judicial authorities are going to initiate proceedings or criminal proceedings against individual executive leaders, is that in the absence of a normal legal mechanism, we did what we shouldn't, that these mayors were in custody for so long until they were forced to resign. You remember that there were such situations in several cases in the cities, in the counties, that certain leaders held in custody for more than a month, forcing them to actually resign because there was no other legal mechanism for them to actually step out of custody and continue to act on duty and to be charged with some crime. So, we don't have any other legal mechanisms, so these leaders were held in custody, and we know what kind of episodes we had, so that's not how we deal with the responsibility of the executive body leader, keeping someone in custody indefinitely. And that's why legal mechanisms need to exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62681	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62682	Thank you. A colleague from your club came up with a number of suggestions on how to call the law so there was a proposal lex sheriff, lex dictator, lex pharaph, lex monarch even though my point of view was that it was right there in the best interest to pass this law. Namely, the MOST has one mayor, Chief, and I guess that'll keep it safe. However, I decided on a replica for the next reason. The day before yesterday, when this law was debated right from your club from your colleagues Grumoja and Bulja, there were a number of criticisms that the law must limit or prescribe council fees. Since I believe that you are certainly one of the most important in this matter, you have also worked in the city services of Varazdin, you have been a secretary in the city of Varazdin, a councilman in several terms, so I think you are certainly well aware of the situation in the city of Varazdin and, say, the City Council of the City of Varazdin. So do you really think that fellow Bulj and Grmoja are more invited here to prescribe by law what city councilmen will do in the city of Varazdin, which will be prescribed, whether or not they will prescribe, but these same city councilmen who have been elected by their citizens to this city council? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62683	The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62684	Thank you. I can't look back on all the questions, but you mentioned at the end of the fee and I'm glad because that's the question, we didn't talk about it. The legislative proposal in the first reading therefore laid down a provision that prescribed that the fees of members of the representative bodies should no longer be monthly, but according to the meetings attended by the members of the representative body. And there wasn't even a limit to how much it could be. That's what I was actually looking for in the debate. Here he told me it seems to me to be the minister on the board or the secretary of state that I am not sure that it would be contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, to restrict the right, to put a limit on the fees of members of the representative body. It is the content of the amendment of counterpart Panenic, but since he is not here right now, I will say one question instead to make it clear to you immediately. How can we legally limit the salaries of executive officials? As we have by law limited the salaries of the mayors, mayors and mayors by coefficient and gross amount of basis as well as state officials. How is that contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, how has no one questioned it? Since no one questions similar provisions in Slovenia, Austria and Germany where you have no difference between local and state officials and where salaries are prescribed for all local officials. What do they do not respect the European Charter of Local Self-Government? Isn't that what this is about? The point is that many local self-governments, which are completely inappropriate in certain cities and counties, can be rewarded endlessly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62685	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Marko Vedligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62686	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's my colleague, Podolnjak. You've actually elaborated this law from the constitutional and legal point of view. So, a law that definitely determines one right of citizens to local and regional self-government. Much has been said in the debate itself and in the first reading and now. I will also speak for the club later, but what is actually controversial in these changes that we have now received because the law comes into force with the day of publication. So, I think, in fact, that this has brought both representative bodies and generally entire cities into trouble. For what? So local councils are in the process of budgeting, and after the adoption of this law, they'll be in a situation that can actually be dissolved. Right? I mean, that's an undeniable fact, because the law here actually changes the situation by 180%. At least I expected it, you moved that what the law is changing is bad and that I agree also during the term of office, but at least that it is going through the next year. So it is not being implemented now, because we know that the deadlines for the adoption of the budget have already begun, that the budgets are committed to the presidents of the council, that some have already adopted the budget. I don't know what's actually going to lead to this and that way, actually, now she's expecting this law to be passed, so we can take advantage of that situation. It's not good, it's not good in general for the development of local democracy, and we don't send a good message to our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62687	The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62688	Thank you. This entry into force of the law, which is likely to follow in early December, therefore, just in the course of the budget process, does not simply leave the possibility of meeting the deadlines set by the Budgetary Act. Namely, as we know, the executive body, the mayor, proposes a draft budget by 15.11., leaving them enough time to discuss and decide on the budget. We can't interfere with the mind that some local self-government has two budget readings. So, not to decide from him in one reading, but to two readings. I know of such local self-governments, which are governed by the statutes. Now imagine, what will happen if, with the amendments to this law, which will take effect in a few days, a mayor or mayor withdraws the draft budget because he does not like the amendments accepted by the representative body. And then the process starts from a new double reading of the draft budget. Because that's the statute of local self-government, it binds the representative body. And we can't change the statute overnight. And by this law, we give 60 days to the representative body to replace the statutes. But those 60 days, which means, when the law enters into force practically the day after the publication and when it begins to apply. Well, that's what we talk about all the time. No one is proposing, not seeing the problems that will happen, because local self-government could not change its acts, its statute, its basic act, which it must act on. He can't change business, nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62689	Thank you. The next replica is respected representatives Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62690	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. If I am not mistaken, the proposal for this law first proposed that council fees would be paid after the councilman's arrival at the meetings, actually in their presence at the session. So even on behalf of the Mosta Club, we suggested that the financial amount be limited, i.e. to be a symbolic fee, as we had the opportunity to show in practice. And in fact, none of this is happening right now, but we're going back to that old good habit, that actually they can determine the council fees themselves. So I ask you, is it our goal, to get people into politics out of the desire to change things, or out of the desire to have some sort of compensation. Because I've been looking a little bit over the Internet now, so actually some council members in Croatia have a fee at net minimum. Well, it's a tragedy. I'm the first one who's always been and always will be for the work to be paid. Because work and results have value and it costs. But I've never been, and I'll never be, like, paid for hard work. We can't pay for a councilman who doesn't come to the session. Or worse, he comes and doesn't participate, he's not active. I don't know, it seems to me that we're just going on with this law, creating better and better conditions for people to fall in love and for people to enter politics, who are actually going to see the council position as some extra fee, and this isn't a professional profession, it doesn't require full-time. We can't have a fee in the amount of net minimumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62691	The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62692	We all know that in local self-government, municipalities and cities and counties, they hold their sessions, representative bodies, often within that legal framework, once every three months. It rarely happens once a month. But, look, in many larger, especially cities and especially in the county, the subsequent months are monthly, regardless of whether maybe a month or two doesn't have a representative body session at all. So they get a monthly fee without having to come even to the session once a month. There's no logic in the monthly fee. According to some calculations, there are approximately 10,000 local councilmen. So 10,000 politicians in local self-government, besides members of the executive body. 10,000 different fees, very often monthly gross amounts, that is a huge amount that is allocated annually for those fees. In addition, compensation for boards of directors and supervisory boards, which are often even greater than those for council members. In the city where I live, fees for board members, city firms, I'm not talking about some of the others, they're bigger than fees for members of the representative body. These are huge amounts. We're not doing anything with this law, absolutely nothing, to at least rationalize those costs. Your attempt, Mr. Minister, was the first indication that you were willing, at least to move towards a possible settlement of the fees. One small mini step you took and you retreated between the first and second readings, because someone told you to violate the European Charter of Local Self-Government. You're not in violation, because if you did, then you wouldn't be able to limit the salaries of local officials, mayors, mayors and mayors. You couldn't limit their salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62693	And the thirteenth replica of the esteemed representative, John Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62694	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Podolnjak, you've systematically agreed, with some things I can agree with, with some not, but one thing you've offered me on the line, which is when you mentioned the State Audit report because I'm listening to the debate the other day and listening to the debate today, I simply don't see that someone wants to get an answer whether this law makes it clear that we're defining who's responsible for the city's functioning and who's making the rules about how this city should function. If we were discussed in such a way, then perhaps our debate would go in another direction. Because the representative body is the body that determines the rules of the game and which controls and the head of the executive or that is an individual, since no more headship must stick to the rules. And what's crucial is what if some reports don't get adopted and what if there's a negative report from the State Audit? However, what I can definitely read from this law is to prevent a dissatisfied individual from putting a whole unit of local self-government in a stalemate position. And that's unfortunately if we look at a little bit of what's been going on all these years, in principle, the re-elections are the development of that. In my view, is it far more important, when reports are submitted on the municipal, made in social activities, when the community of sports associations submits its report, when the mayor presents the report of the State Audit, when the implementation of the state budget is done, is that where what was to be done? And then is there a basis for someone to leave or not to leave? Because if a political one option believes that its mayor should leave, then it will be very easy to gather those 1/3 councilmen who will, along with the opposition, tear down that mayor. This prevents the will of individuals who want to resolve their personal vanity and dissatisfaction in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62695	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62696	I thank you for the replica. See what happens to us with potential situations of which you mentioned one because a negative annual report of the State Audit comes in. For me a very serious fact, I've been a councilman for many years, and fortunately, I've not faced a negative report but a conditional opinion, but what if a negative report comes in where there's a serious indication of failure to act and the decisions of a mayor or mayor? What can the council do then? Is there a procedure in place? We know how long these actions can be. What if the council doesn't accept the mayor's work reports? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. A general lawless provision that doesn't actually serve anything, there are no sanctions. What if the annual budget is not accepted? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. If the council doesn't accept the annual reckoning, nothing happens, no sanctions. So, everything I've listed, so there's no sanctions, no, there's no sanctions unless it's accepted because there's certain irregularities in budget spending. So we know by all the provisions that exist now that there are no sanctions. Unfortunately, even when you get a negative review report for me, that's one serious reason for the council to initiate its decision to recall the mayor, that's exactly it. A negative review report when the council is going to say this is a real, serious reason, this is not politics, this is one state institution that has found that the head of the executive body didn't work well and that's why we're starting the impeachment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62697	Thank you. Now we're going to move naturally to the next Club of Representatives, just taking into account the number of representatives clubs and the number of individual debates and, for example, the number of replicas here, we can estimate if everyone gets so many replicas, that we're going to continue this point for 13 and a half hours. I hope that, with all the freedom of course we all have to discuss, it will not be so, but now, in the name of the Living Wall and the SNAGA's Club, the esteemed representative Ivan Willibor Sincic will speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62698	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, as we know today we are discussing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, this is a second reading, before I begin the debate I will argue that this is amazing how quickly we came from the first to the second reading, it is obvious that the intention is to continue to adopt these budgets to apply the provisions of this law. Here is an interesting situation, for example in Zagreb County, as far as I'm aware, there has been a turning point, although the mayor from the left coalition, in the county council most of them took the right coalition and now they want to change the president of the county council. Therefore, they can and choose whether to adopt a budget under the new or old law, depends on how they time their calling and depends on how you vote and put this law into effect. First of all, I would like to say that both the Croatian politics and the ruling parties and the Government continue one continuity of the adoption of laws for individuals and individual situations, so we had lex Komadina, so we also had lex Vlahusic, so we also had Lx Perkovic at our own time, so whenever someone needs help, someone to take down or help someone, then a special law works for him. Instead of working on universal models based on democracy, which will help general development of all and everywhere in Croatia, we work for a sample and when it comes to laws to help someone. Surely this law was not made because of some small municipality of a few hundred inhabitants such as you have in rural remote parts of Croatia, parts of Baranja, Slavonia, Like and Gorski Kotar, Dalmatian Zagora, the islands of the Croatians he was built for the city of Zagreb in order to enable Mr. Bandić a tool if he needed it. Well, let's get it straight. It was up to Mr. Todorovic to take over Jamnica that the Zagrebačka County then abolished and connected with the city of Zagreb, to return to the map again after a few years. The protagonists in this case are famous, Mr. Stjepan Vujanić the first mayor of Zagreb and Mr. Branko Mikša the first mayor of Zagreb, it is a crown example that so is not brought to an individual and it is a practice to stop with. Instead of favouring individuals, we need to strengthen democracy and make models for everyone, that the more people have information to be educated, to participate in decision-making, to increase turnout in elections, to decide citizens and the will of citizens, not parties. The processes in which we are currently in place concern me, we do not only have them at local self-government and regional self-government, but we also have them at Parliament level. I remind you once again of Mr. Seks' scandalous intensities, openly saying that he wants to introduce a two-party in Croatia following the example of the United States which was a huge step back that would make any democratic change impossible, generational change impossible. Apparently, Mr. Shex's great HDZ advisor decided that there was a new generation in Croatia who had the right to think what he meant, as your generation had the right to think in the 1990s, as he thought in '71. Think of what he thinks and logically and normally one generation goes away and dies to come new and has some new ideas. No, Mr. Shakespeare is smarter than the dear God and biology of the law of nature, he wants individuals to rule forever. A big Democrats whose bipartisan is certainly only a step towards one-party. So I condemn and reject such models of change. Croatia and Croatia's democracy should be developed precisely in the direction that there are no or no more God-given new third options to replace the old parties. It is logical and normal and it is necessary not only at national level, it is also necessary at local level. Thus, down totalitarianism, and lived democracy, down partocracies, and lived direct democracy. I can see it's funny to some colleagues on the right, you may have defeated the 1990s of those communists so-called, but the Bolshevik spirit has drawn into many of you and I can understand it. Therefore, one of the main objectives of this law is to prevent changes at local level. As a rule, this law will not apply to these important changes in places and cases where one rules dominantly. ...in Karlovac County, the dominant government of HDZ, there will be no recall of the mayor, there will not be a council tearing down the mayor. But you have cases of others where the government of the left coalition won't even be there. This law will primarily refer to those cases where the post-election victory is unclear. Where you have a significant left coalition, a significant right coalition and in the middle of a new party, a young party, a small party of independent lists that are some kind of call of political change in that case. What's going on? Because it is, and I will say weaker, third times hard to get the mayor means the mayor almost gets one of the left or right coalitions. The mayor can reset now, re-route the election story and get out of the election race all those who don't suit him. The main principle of the Living Wall is functional and sustainable. If a municipality, a city, a county leads badly, then that elections as soon as possible and it is not a matter of instability but a path to stability, functionality and sustainability. If a municipality, city or county leads well, then elections are what leads to instability and can be unwarranted, absolutely. There are cases for the sake of pure wickedness or because the opposite party of course comes an initiative to collapse a representative who has been legitimately elected. Of course, the conditions we have here are almost impossible to bring down anyone, so you need 20%, and the turnout needs to be more than 50%, it doesn't happen in practice, we know that. And Mr. Podolnjak listed figures that in themselves say it's impossible. A similar thing is also at a national level where a 10% quota is also extremely difficult to achieve, and there is also an indeterminateness that has existed for a long time and how many voters there are and how many signatures it takes. If we remember the "In the Name of the Family" initiative on the change of electoral legislation that Mr. Bauk then minister of the administration has been thinking for weeks about what the number of signatures should or should not be. Therefore, we have submitted one amendment to this law, it proposes that the number of signatures be reduced to 2.5% that is one standard that should be introduced at national level to enable citizens and easier to encourage them to make decisions, not by parties that have proved to not know how to run this country. As for local self-government units like it or not, a number of local self-government units will disappear, not because I want it and because it's simply a fact. I listed before the rural environment where the population is small and smaller, islands, Dalmatian Zagora, Lika and Gorski Kotar, Baranja, Slavonia. According to the 2011 census, and long ago it was 2011, you have a municipality of only a few hundred inhabitants with very few young people. Where will they be in a few years or 10 years? In the disappearance. Thus, a large number of local self-government units will disappear or we will reform them and reorganize them or they themselves will become unsustainable by biological means. It is also known that already many local self-government units are unable to write projects for European funds. Here was the information, if I'm not mistaken that even 90% of these units are unable to withdraw money from EU funds, that they are unable to charge, the state's audit or those revenues that belong to them under the law has testified. There's a constant decline in population. So we have one system of units of local self-government that doesn't work. This law itself, not this one, but that which is now in force, which you are changing, as far as the current organisation of the units of local self-government is concerned, I would say good, satisfactory, it should be changed but it must be, that change must be linked to the reorganisation of the units of local self-government. Therefore, changing it in itself and not solving the key problems of cities, municipalities and counties at the moment is nothing more than a political goal to please individuals on the trail of those lexes that I have previously cited. As far as the future is concerned, I spoke to Mr. Mark Jelic, a molecular biologist who in the city of Knin defused HDZ in the last elections. He launched a brilliant initiative, says that such a type of initiative, although there are similar, but as far as it knows, is unique in the world. So through the website, the portal will vote on different topics for the citizens of Knin, will participate in a decision on the future of the city. So far, just advisory. He hopes that one day it will be included in the laws and that it will become a normal way to run the city. Therefore, it is one future, direct democracy, e-democracy, that is something to work on, spread power, influence, involvement of information with a number of citizens, rather than closing into syncours, parties and then from these parties, we want as few voters to come out as possible and those who come out of these parties to prevent democratic change. What else do you say, ultimately? So the basic thesis is stated in the law is the creation of a new balance mechanism. Here will not create a balance mechanism, here will create a monolith in the form of the mayoral executive authority, the mayor, the mayor who is almost impossible to overthrow, which, if he does not fit, he can restart the elections and change his council. For now, just once. In the future, maybe more than once. Finally, the Living Wall will not support this law and we would like to finally discuss it in the Croatian Parliament, so if it is necessary for a full week of legislation concerning units of local self-government and that would touch the necessary path towards reforms and reorganisation of units of local self-government. Because the system we have now is a system that doesn't work. In order to write one project, I'll tell you, you may need 10 experts from different areas, for which, more or less, you'll find them hard to find in the municipality of 500 inhabitants. But in the city of Zagreb, you will find them. Let that be the thought, I guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62699	Thank you very much. And we have a long line of replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of the Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62700	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleague Sincic, colleagues and colleagues. Every ruling option tries to fabricate some kind of law that is on their hands in units of local self-government without an administration who does so, today it is a HDZ opportunity. We're talking about the work of representative bodies here. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let's be honest with our citizens and tell them what representative bodies are in local and regional self-government units. These are handlifters in the service of mayors, mayors or mayors of a particular unit of local self-government, regional self-government. They're people who, in most cases, don't even know what they've raised their hand for. Many of them did not even open material for a representative body session, nor do they know what was being discussed. And just like here in the House, most of them have their own representatives who must press or raise their hand on the day of the vote for what the executive government wants and thus function our entire democratic system. This law should make us want to endure a very, very big change of democracy. But here we are again trying to protect someone, reduce democracy and fear the referendum. Why couldn't half the councilors ask for a referendum? It is a referendum, the citizens will decide at a referendum whether to change the leader or not. If he deserves, enjoys the support of the citizens then he won't change it, give some kind of deadline that can be done, just as the government's trust can be sought here every six months, also make a unit of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62701	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62702	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, I agree with your debate. There is that, I have also been elected by the Municipality of Karlovac County, where I have left the mandate of my colleague, but I am a councilman in the City Council of the city of Karlovac and I know from colleagues who have had the opportunity to participate in the work of local and regional self-government that the trend is as it is in the Croatian Parliament, so that there are a number of MPs who do not participate in the discussions, does not mean just to talk, it means to listen and listen, so they do not listen to the concentration, at least the most important parts, that they do not read materials. And it's a political culture in Croatia that's still at low levels, we're still learning democracy. And that's why the Living Wall here is struggling for this culture to develop, for citizens to be educated, for most of them to participate, for the majority to go to elections. And in this direction, not only should our political system change at all levels, from presidents, parliamentary, units of local self-government and local committees, in order to mean that an increasing number of citizens are involved in these processes and not less and less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62703	The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62704	Thank you very much. Comrade Sincic, here are just a few remarks to your debate. I couldn't figure out which way she was going because she covered it, and she basically didn't say anything important because we have relations at the local level and we hear that there's, say, a partytocrat that's a complex Living Wall, let's say not either HDZ or any other party. Well, I guess there are some people, citizens who belong to that political option, and they're trying to do something about it. Why are we underestimating parties in terms of relations with citizens? Who makes parties? So they are made by the citizens. Who are they, then, supposed to bring down those who are within the parties to achieve democracy, who are these others? Why is it normal for us to set aside five and seven and ten percent of our budgets for civil society, and for the parties for a minimum of two, three percent. It's even a shame to separate and any compensation in the party because there they organize a whole political life and everything else that happens inside some local self-government, and associations one, three or seven activities over the year and that's great. It means why we're even getting into this kind of relationship and then canceling it out. We hear now here's the councilman, and they don't even open the material, they come to the session, but no problem, let them tear down some leader so they don't even read what's in it. It's allowed, it's great, it's something to strive for. So I think this law is trying to find the best relationship, the best level that neither of us is happening, that the authorities aren't breaking down, we're because someone didn't open the material and something wasn't done to it the way he wanted it to. Some particle, asphalt to your house or some terrain hasn't entered the spatial plan. But that can't be the reason for taking down the mayor and the mayor. Let's be realistic. So let's find the right reason. If we have the right reason in my community, 200 people can call a referendum if they don't. The opposition gets 350 votes, no problem he can do it whenever he wants. So let's get into a real relationship, let's not make a populist statement that something's good, and the other one's no good. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62705	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62706	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, if you have listened to me, I have said that you should strive to function and that sustainability should be pursued. I also said that this law that has so far existed without these changes of yours is satisfactory, or that it is good. We haven't seen a lot of crashes, we haven't seen a lot of choices. He was more advanced than the system that existed before where executive authority was elected within the council. But he's also less advanced than this system that you're about to establish, I believe you'll establish him because you have the ruling majority. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62707	The next replica of Representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62708	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Sincic. You have pointed out one thing well in your presentation, which is that in Croatia we have a tendency to skate towards authoritarianism. So we could say, and it's probably how the minister's been defending himself all along that this isn't done to strengthen the individual's power, but it's as if he's denying everything we hear here. In fact, we see that there is the idea of drastically changing electoral legislation, and we see that there are ideas that are also changing the way we work in the Parliament and in some other institutions. So it is to simply eliminate the very purpose of representative bodies and to give all power to one man, and it seems to me that here above all these tendencies come from one single man, namely Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who simply does not understand the very essence of parliamentary democracy, but essentially wants to make all decisions from one center. We even see that he has a problem with the initiatives of the President of the Republic. He and her are entering very harsh conflicts and she wants to virtually take away some rights, for example about these appointments of ambassadors where he would like to appoint all ambassadors himself. And that is why it is obvious that Croatia is becoming the hostage of one man, one man who simply cannot stand the institutions of parliamentary democracy. So we're slipping into one, so let's say a system of personal authorities that is then re-painted here at all levels, and so on to the local ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62709	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62710	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is a colleague of Bunjac you responded to my part of the debate where I spoke of an increase in authority in Croatian political life. That's right, I've cited a series of examples at all levels of government. However, it is worth pointing out one more thing. The replica I just gave you in response to your replica also wants to disable the Croatian Parliament. Namely, there is an initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure, to prevent replicas within the club from being placed in the afternoon and to punish shouting and voice-lifting. Now that it's a voice-lifting and shouting, I guess it's going to be a measuring device, so it's going to be able to be precise and fair to everyone or it's going to depend on the one who's presides. We know that some of them are presidents, so they have very biased criteria. Therefore, it is all in some trend and tendency to close political power to as narrow and as few people as possible, to exclude as many Croatian citizens as possible, not only to keep them from information and decision-making powers, but to keep them at the end of the financial means. We know that Croatia is also a centralised country and that far the largest number of funds goes to the central state and that it distributes exactly how it fits. As for Prime Minister Plenkovic, yes, for him, he came on some kind of wings of an advanced European politician but quickly landed here on a level that does not correspond to what I would like to see from Croatia. They'd say some kind of colloquialism. He must only learn that democracy is a system in which one institution controls another, so he cannot make any decisions without the co-signature of the president. We may or may not have to like it, we may want to change it or not, but he's like this right now and he needs it right now...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62711	Thank you. I have to say something, though, that it is not always good to follow certain articles in the media because I am nowhere, I have no knowledge that anyone would suggest that a vote be raised into the changes of the Rules of Procedure. It's not always good to base everything on certain media. Let's go to the next line, it's the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62712	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, you were saying in fact that in your presentation you asked that the law should seek the functioning and balance that this law does not do to you. I think that is exactly what this law is trying to introduce in local units that things work and introduce a balance that is extremely important and for the withdrawal of funds from the EU, for the realisation of projects in this way, for all units of local and regional self-government because we are aware that they do not have enough own resources for numerous projects and that this is the basic way in the future from which a number of projects should be financed. I'll tell you something, when we talk about units of local and regional self-government and responsibility, then we really can't talk the same way about the responsibility of mayors, mayors and mayors in relation to the responsibility of representative bodies as collegiate bodies. Do you know by how many laws the holders of the executive authority comply with in relation to the holders of the authorities of the representative bodies? Representative bodies are primarily collegiate bodies, no one involved in the work of the representative body is individually responsible for anything. Mayors, mayors and mayors respond every day, not only to their citizens through various performances that they receive directly but also through the media calling them for everything they are made. Also in the meetings of representative bodies where they are called by the opposition, which is the role of representative bodies and opposition in them. Likewise, when the audit report comes which we talked about when it is and conditional happens that individual mayors, the mayors must respond and go to the talks and to the bodies of the state authorities, come anonymous reports and have to go to the DORH etc. I wonder, who in the future will want to be the head of the executive when we think of them like they're criminals in this way?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62713	Thank you. Dear Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62714	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't really know where the conclusion is that representatives or executives are criminals. If I thought so, God forbid I'd never run for mayor of the city of Karlovac. Of course there are a number of laws, institutions that we all answer to, and especially those who are officials and officials, but we see statistics. These laws have existed before, statistics simply show that the current law in relation to the current schedule and the number of units of local self-government is satisfactory, and the changes that you make with this law actually make impossible for the members of the council, and also for citizens, in fact, why not reduce the reference threshold in case these institutions, state audits or to come, for example, judgment from the Government, as it is now coming for Mr. Mayor of Požega that in these cases you do not actually have the tools to bring them down or in the dust you have, but in practice these tools are impregnable and impossible. So they're indestructible, they're Pharaohs, sheriffs as long as we want to go with the description in cartoons. And as for council members, their position is getting lost, this balance that this law allegedly tends to lose. In the re-elections, they risk re-entering the councils. Of course, the big left, right blocks you don't understand because you will again enter these councils, but all those who fight over the third time are here in extreme danger because this law is why it is precisely this law that seeks to confirm and strengthen the bipartisan and partytocracies to the harm of the development of democracy and change and third paths, and therefore we are against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62715	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijan Kustic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62716	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Sinčić, I listened to your debate very carefully, but here is my colleague Buric, who said more or less what I wanted to say, so I would add that this law does not solve the problem only you have listed this particular city of Zagreb, you are constantly saying lex sheriff or lex Agrokor or the like. I would add that this law also solves those frustrated individuals in smaller communities and cities that make problems for the mayors, the mayors of the municipalities especially when budgets are passed because simply their frustration or non-compliance with their own individual wishes, and I'm sure they don't read the documents they get for the city council, they just get up to the left new... they say we're going to tear down the budget and we're going to go to new elections, which certainly represents citizens and locals who live there problems and require new let's say the financial costs from the budget. So here I certainly welcome the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62717	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62718	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague. I was just talking about sustainability and functioning. I personally believe that there are good people in all parties and that there are municipalities and cities that are very well guided under Croatian and current laws and that there are people from many parties in these municipalities. Whoever makes it, no matter where I get it from, I'll give it to him. I stood by this speaker alone so that Croatia would start to see who was who and who was who. So if a mayor is successful and has a mayor if I do not cheat on Krk who has no more opponent after the number of re-elections, then in that case, the law should make it impossible for individual frustrated individuals to change such power, which is so stable and so often chosen. Also in cases where we have corrupt and incompetent mayors, commissioners and mayors, the law must now enable those to be replaced as soon as possible and the local self-government unit to function. It's our fundamental principle to build on, write laws, we don't see it here, and we think it's a step backwards from the law that currently... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62719	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62720	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Sincic, listening to your argument, I have a feeling when you're talking in HDZ to get a rash. I feel like you're saying that if HDZ got out of power, things would get better in the country. I also realized that you are politicians, and you are as advisors of the Croatian Parliament. You don't seem to be getting paid, like the politician of the Living Wall and everything that belongs to you with that salary. It can be concluded from your debate. About 556 units of local administration and self-government in the Republic of Croatia, somewhere around 270 units of local self-government, HDZ is on the government. I don't see any problem here. What you need to know, and to be consistent where you are often heard from your ranks of diametric opposite claims, I refer you to the European Charter of Local Administration and Self-Government, so you will see that the main principle of this charter is your principle of subsidiarity, i.e. that your problem is solved here where it came from. So, from what you say in the debate, you might leave Zagreb and a few small towns behind, and these others are not threatened by a bright future, and they should be abolished. No one is against the possibility that individual units of local self-government may be combined in the future. Why not? So no one slows down, that shouldn't be. But you must also know that Croatia from Konaval to Ilock, from Ilock to Rt Kamenjak has such specificities in which people live, where units of local administration and self-government have actually made it possible for them to live a better life, because they cannot change it as such in view of their place of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62721	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62722	Thank you, Vice President. Here, I don't know how you came to that conclusion from my debate. It wasn't my intention at all, and I'm from your debate making the conclusion that either you didn't understand me or you didn't listen to me. So, as far as HDZ is concerned, you know what our position on HDZ as well as on SDP is. I won't comment on that much. As for Zagreb and other units of local self-government, although Zagreb can be classified among those 20 plus 21 counties or can be classified among cities. In all, it is 576 units of local and regional self-government. I was talking about objective criteria. So, we de facto wanted us to or not, fight against how successful or not, the number of residents falls, where you have small municipalities. Let's say the Carlovack County and the Ribnik municipality, which has 500 inhabitants, according to the 2011 list, as far as I know. As far as the population remains there, here I have to send an inquiry to the commissioner, the question arises, not only for the municipality that is relatively close to Zagreb and which now has a highway to Zagreb, but for municipalities that are in a much worse situation, which, having an older, less educated, old age population, the poor who are isolated, and you have them according to Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora, Baranja, Slavonia on the islands, that those de facto will find themselves in a situation when they will disappear. They already don't work now, they show us a report at all levels, from economic, demographic and many other indicators. So it is not our intention to shut down something that works, but to create a system of units of local self-government in Croatia that will work, in every part of Croatia, our country, respecting specificities, so if necessary, let it be 1,000 municipalities if it will work. I don't mind. But I think that this current number, far too much and that too many councilmen and it should go into the reduction process based on some situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62723	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62724	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your debate, you set a good example, as you stated, among the world's first mayor, Mr. Jelic, the new mayor, will ask his citizens to vote and deliver their opinions, so that they can influence the city's increasingly important decisions. Do you know that the Institute of Public Finance conducts every year a study on the transparency of all 576 local units and puts this e-consultation first. That there are already many cities and municipalities seeking the opinion of their citizens, when it comes to budgeting. Here, the city of Vodice received the award as the third for transparency, meaning of 576 cities and municipalities precisely because when it changed and completed its decision in the catering activity, it had 60 days of opportunity for citizens to turn to their proposals further. From... The solution was one of the main markets in Vodice, it was also on the city's pages, so it could vote and give its opinion, so I don't know, up to the looks of stands in summer months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the Institute of Public Finance is already conducting such research and many cities and municipalities are already involved in such cooperation, i.e. contact of executive bodies, with their citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62725	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62726	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Juričev Martinchev, I am familiar with the e-consultation system and it is good that it exists, absolutely, perhaps earlier, that citizens should give their opinions, comments, acts that are being passed on to the management of local self-government units. The referendum I was talking about, so for now, it's just advisory. Citizens can influence the mayor's thinking and policies, to the extent that he respects those opinions and counselling on it only somewhere in the future could that decision, some voting system, be binding. Right now, the system is down to counseling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62727	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of IDS, PGS and LRI in the name of which they will speak a respected representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62728	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The topic of today's debate The final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and what I want to say very clearly is that in no way do I intend to protect all those leaders who used their position for unacceptable forms of behaviour, but I also believe that it is not good in any way that on the basis of bad negative examples we create a general picture and put everything in the same basket. I will say that I keep the least of my words unsuitable to call the sheriffs directly elected leaders, commissioners, mayors, mayors who have won the support of their fellow citizens in direct elections, have gained the trust of the majority in the community in which they live and operate. I will base my debate on the fact that as long as we in Croatia do not begin to call the laws the right name, the name which will be clear to the vast majority of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the understanding, of what is needed above all, of the hope needed, of the necessary steps, of the necessary progress in Croatia will be nothing. In public, it has been targeted for several years, and it has been unfounded especially by all the mayors, all the mayors are placed in the same basket and shown exclusively in a negative context. I allow myself to say that in public and even in good works in the debate so far as this bill is concerned, there has been a step further. It is wanted to show that leaders through this bill will be able to act without limit and willfully. But most of all, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will present to the public a number of concrete facts that make it clear that the truth is quite different after all. I'm going to concentrate and point out just a few examples. The mayors, the mayors, the mayors are directly responsible for the legal, purposeful spending of budget money, and according to the Budget Law, the Fiscal Responsibility Act, while, unlike them, the council members do not have such a form of responsibility. According to all applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia, all the mayors, all the mayors, all the mayors have minimum powers. Why? Because we have a rigidly centralised system. All the mayors, all the mayors, all the mayors have their hands tied. Why? Because they don't have tools. The state level has in its hands tools. Furthermore, this legal text, which is before us today, shows that the minimum powers of local leaders do not increase, that in some issues and are limited in the context of fiscal responsibility that is exclusively for both the mayor and the mayor, and I will repeat which council members do not have, while on the other hand, the powers of municipal and city councils as well as the county parliaments are strengthened through the budget issues I have already spoken of, through the question of a referendum on the recall of the head, through the disbandment of the councils of the local committees. I will now be free to comment on the intensities of the proposer himself. If the applicant's intensities were to strengthen the representative body, both the head and the representative body should achieve a level of responsibility in co-decision on important issues, on important issues for the community, for example. Like a budget, then I'll comment on it the following way. The factor of failure is human, the key to success is human. What do I mean by that? In the local communities in which the responsible people, their self, put their ego in a subordinate position and the community interest, put citizens' interest first, in these communities and positions and oppositions have reached high agreement both on important issues and on important issues with only one single goal, improve the standard and quality of life in the community and whether this bill will change what in local units in which, unfortunately, the ego of individuals was ahead of the general interest, let us leave that time. For us from IDS, PGS and LRI, what we've said so many times for this pay phone I want to repeat, this is an administrative issue. I wish we had invested our energy in laws with content concerning both functional and financial decentralisation, I would like the state executive level to show more trust in the local community, I have already talked about it countless times because I have a firm stance that together we can do more and faster and better. And I would like the state level to pay greater attention to those who draw and contribute, not only to those who constantly complain. I hope so, and I will end up with this amendment to the law that tomorrow no one will think of going back to the old model and ending the direct selection of the leader. Because if we really want to move forward as a society then we need to pursue higher standards and higher standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62729	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas again. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62730	Dear colleague Sponza, one man is nothing and one man is everything. That's how it's been since the world and forever. And finally to hear about this speaker exactly what you were saying, talking about what it means to take on a duty, which means to take on responsibility for yourself and not listen here to the debates of people who obviously were either never or never knew or were malicious. Because leading a city or a municipality unbound would it be you or me or any of the leaders of a local self-government unit of great responsibility. A job like that, or you have to love it, bring yourself into it. Otherwise, after four years, you're not here anymore. There are numerous examples that have shown this in the Republic of Croatia, so here is Metkovic's question. So what we need to talk about, and exactly what you mentioned, I'd rather not talk about this because this is really an administrative question about who and who and when it's changing. It is more about rigid centralisation, about the burden on us that we make decisions in cities and municipalities, about the time we waste on unnecessary travel here in Zagreb to prove to someone that this project is important not to the city, but to the state. Of all the things we do, the idea itself, the project mission, the realization. So here's this debate that was to appoint the mayor I don't know who, whatever he wants. Well, he can't even replace an officer if he doesn't do his job. By law, he has to be blackmailed negatively for two years, and then he can't be replaced but goes to the Official Court. What are we talking about? What sheriffs? I'm not saying this because I'm afraid. I've got 7%, I've only got two councilmen in a position practically, but I want to say that taking over as mayor, the mayor means taking responsibility for leading that city in four years. It means responsibility, to keep the promises we made to our citizens. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62731	Thank you. Honorable Representative Sponza will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62732	Dear colleague Klaric, first of all I thank you for the replica in which I will answer in the following way. Each of us has the freedom of choice, the freedom of choice to go in the direction of destruction or the direction of progress. I always look forward. To look in the mirror to express myself vividly for safety and instruction sometimes is not bad, but those who just look back, those who don't contribute to understanding the problem, those who don't contribute to solving the problem actually do one thing, which is exactly what you've been talking about all along. Citizens have no confidence in politicians and politicians, and with their rhetoric and actions they have just contributed to making this trust as low as possible. I've never allowed myself to engage in debates in areas and topics I don't understand. However, I am fascinated by the ease of access and engagement and activity around certain topics without ever being in those shoes, never walking and never wearing them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62733	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62734	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My friend Sponz, in fact, this isn't a replica. This is just to give you support to this really constructive and good debate of yours. This is the kind of debate you've been having here, not politicizing and doing politics. Here we are sitting, in fact, maybe most of us leaders who run the local self-government unit and we can probably get along very well, and that's what Mr. Klaric said and his replica wasn't a replica, but it was going towards that well-intentioned and agreeing with you, that is, for everything you've said. You said at one point that it's not good to have a sheriff and sheriff. Clearly, it is interpreted in public as being self-willed. That's not true, and that's what you said. And I'm giving that full support to your sayings, but also about what you said about not putting everything in the same basket. The fact is, there are bad leaders, there are those who may be completely worthy of being told they're sheriffs. But I'd say they're really in the minority. No mayor or mayor was chosen by people who knew he was bad, that he was some kind of local sheriff. But I'd like to say a few more words about populism. Here's a survey I've heard not long ago, and I've spent less on the mayor's team than I've ever heard of. I don't think we should spend a lot of money on the team, but it would be good to stop with that kind of pulsism. Let's compete who made the leaders better and more projects, who did more for the children, who made more buttocks or roads. Let's go to the competition, not who spent less on the team. I don't spend much on the team, but I don't think it's the most important thing in it together. That's enough pulsism. The most important thing is all that together. Enough of populism, let's tell people what's important and who they should choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62735	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62736	Here I would refer to what you have touched and these are the negative examples. In fact, public space is dominated, and I'm not going to say it exclusively, but I'm going to use the word "probably negative" examples. And why am I saying that? Because, in fact, with negative examples and unacceptable forms of behavior, we create an impression in the public that this is also becoming acceptable forms of behavior. And what's the result of all this? That we become a society of absurds. And there were no names and names spoken in the debate so far, but I kind of got the impression that on the basis of almost one person alone, there was an impression that all the mayors, all the mayors, and all the mayors, were put in the same basket, and that's something that wasn't good. So until we begin to speak specifically through clear examples, citing both names and names. But I absolutely agree with you that there are many more of those mayors and mayors who unfortunately can't get out of anonymity, get public space, get public space. And you said nicely, every day, we who, who are still local leaders or I who was the local leader, always thought about how to solve the problem of the citizens, but also after the decision every day, we looked at those fellow citizens and we were responsible for the decision we made. And that's very important. We're not from a state level away from people, we live with these people every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62737	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62738	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you said in your debate that this law actually doesn't have any important content. I agree deeply with that because, therefore, these cosmetic changes in the second reading continue to make this law cosmetic rather than making it banal, make it almost irrelevant to the situation in local self-government units. In a situation where we have 576 units of local self-government from literally several hundred inhabitants to several hundred thousand inhabitants with almost equal powers, this law will not make this system more functional. This law will not reduce the difference in the fiscal capacities of municipalities and cities. This law will not increase the capacity of local self-government units to attract EU funds. And this law will not make local self-government what it should be, which is to be decentralised both fiscally and functionally. And what exactly is this law telling us? In my opinion, this law says that unfortunately the government does not have either the courage or the capacity to go into structural reform of local self-government in order to finally become both functional and sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62739	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62740	So as for what you said, I believe I was very clear in my debate when I explained my angle of looking at the very intensity of the promoter, but I'm going to extend this replica to the next way. I absolutely advocate democracy, democracy means respect for procedures and regulations, but what I don't support is the form of anarchy. We're talking about trust, and we're neglecting and we're always suppressing one elemental thing. Chiefs and leaders, who chooses? They pick people and they pick them directly. And then we say that the leaders exercise their will and represent themselves. Well, I guess some of the leaders were chosen by people, people who live in that community and people who recognize the work of that local leader. I never said that for a public speaker, but today someone mentioned an example of Italy. And in the inner circles if I wanted to reach a form of democracy why we do not apply a model that is in law in the Republic of Italy as far as the elections are concerned very clearly. One who gets more than 40 percent of local leaders have more than 50% of their council members in the representative body. We need stability. We talk about demolition all the time. Let's get some mental code turned around and let's go build this society of ours whether from local to state level. And then that's the solution. And we hold such a single model of several election cycles and see that we have stability. People here are complaining and we're going to invest energy on how to crash, so that's not a good way to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62741	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62742	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a colleague, I could agree with most of your debate, I don't agree with the part where you said this law was just an administrative issue. In some parts, yes, but in the key one, which is the relationship between the representative body, the executive leader, so it's not. It's not just a good direction or a good message for the development of local democracy. We limit representative bodies, and that's a fact, that's a fact, that's a fact, the explanations on the other side that we're getting now we're going to make them compromise. And you yourself said in your debate that the local units where the executive leader and representative body managed to work well together without even making a difference in political options were successful. I mentioned it a few times on the board and in the debate. So that's kind of a direction. Well, we can't get someone to compromise legally, that's impossible, that's impossible. And it's not good law enforcement, it's not good law enforcement. I agree that we need decentralisation, we will agree and I believe everyone here in the Croatian Parliament about it I agree that we need decentralisation, we will agree to believe everyone here in the Croatian Parliament about it regardless of the political differences between us. Of course, it's the same to call someone sheriffs and the rest that came from the works of the academic community or the works of actually the media, of course it's not correct, for no one it's nice to hear who's elected as head but we have to look from councilman's position. I think the councilors are the same and some of the representatives today are as well-labelled as people who don't read or study materials, it's extremely incorrect. I know I was also a councilman of the ruling majority, I was also an opposition and I know how much the same councilman can contribute to the development of a local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62743	The answer of Honorable Representative Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62744	I thank you for the replica. The only thing I have left to do is repeat what I said before and what I stand for. The factor of failure is human, the key to success is human. In local communities where the position and opposition are normal, responsible, above all, responsible, where they are there for citizens who realize that they need to solve problems, which are looking forward, they are yesterday such a profile will today and such a profile of people will be responsible tomorrow. I agree that the law must create a framework that is sustainable and that is enforceable, but I will also return that the factor of failure is human. Unfortunately, in certain environments where, above all, it is very low level of self-awareness among individuals, it is difficult to expect that this bill that I have argued that I feel and accept balances this relationship. I don't just look at him negatively because I didn't say that. So again, everything will depend on people, you as a local leader know it very well and how well you have the skills and how skillful you are and how much you are involved and how determined you are in some moments because being a leader means taking responsibility, being a leader at some point with great determination and not because it is not acceptable to answer but it is held in a way that the arguments and facts that will be given to an individual or a group through answers are behind it. People appreciate an honest answer and an honest attitude, and that should be our way and direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62745	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Marin Škibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62746	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Sponza, you have experience in running local self-government, if you personally and IDS as a party. However, I am interested in this in terms of your thinking whether this law, however, limits democracy in some way? And why would I ask that? The councillors won't be able to take down the mayor unless he accepts the budget, knock down, here's a colleague throwing down, it's not a matter of taking down, it's a matter of sanctions. So if the mayor brings in a bad budget, the council has the right to vote against that budget. And then why would only councilmen be held accountable and not the mayor who's a bad budget and suggested it? That's one question. And the second question, the more difficult the law is that it must automatically go to compromises, so council members must go to compromise because if they do not go to compromise, then they must go to elections. And okay, I support, there should be a compromise, it should be looked at in the long-term and sustainable way, but there were situations where councilors propose an amendment to the budget and the mayor accepts the amendment and the councilman supports the budget, and then, with the first rebalancing, he changes that amendment and says there is still no money. In a way, are the mayors also being manipulated by this law and such manipulations? The councilman is ready to compromise, the amendment is accepted and after the rebalancing is cast out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62747	Here's what the law says, the Honorable representative of Sponza will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62748	Here's my esteemed colleague, Skybola, and I'm going to try to give clear answers, and I'm going to go on the basis of your replica from behind to your beginning. So you mentioned the word manipulation, by accepting amendments to the draft budget, by supporting the budget of the opposition councilors. As far as I'm concerned, because you've also asked me that question to ask my opinion, I've never acted like it, and that's my attitude. So, you have to be first of all responsible, but you have to be correct. And if you're responsible and you're correct, you're achieving something that's most important in my life, which is trust. Trust is the foundation and basis of life. You mentioned that the context of the talks went in the context of a compromise, no, I didn't mention the word compromise, I used the term consent. The agreement is one higher level, consensus on important issues and consensus on important issues, and at first you said the question of the budget and I did indeed say in my presentation that the role of the representative body is strengthened because the representative body can, through amendments, amend the draft budget and thus bring it independently on the head himself, if the leader pulls away then the head goes to the elections, therefore that is an argument which, if I read correctly from the law, in the final draft of the law and stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62749	Thank you. We're going to the next Club of Representatives, that's the SDP on behalf of which will speak the esteemed representative Marko Vedligaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62750	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here are the amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. I'll say actually in an emergency procedure given the shortness that exists between the first and second readings. Somehow, we haven't had any luck arguing about this law. I'll remind you that we delayed the first one for the football game, so we made it a long way the other day because of the Hague verdicts. Here I believe that today we will successfully finish this debate, that there will be a third happiness. So local self-government in Croatia as well as other European countries is the basis and foundation of the country's territorial policy and administrative organisation. So it is indeed the primary level of government that is closest to the citizens. This government in its programme has stated that it wants a modern, efficient, fast, transparent, inclusive, depolitical administration. So what we all want here, but this law is not a law that goes in that direction. It's essentially a bad bill. We can see from this debate that the whole process of the operation of local self-government and the most important one of the changes it brings, which persists through media advances, is trying somehow to camouflage unmistakably, to extract the situation, so if the representative body did not support the budget proposed by the municipal chief, mayor or mayor, only the representative body would be disbanded, and the local head would remain in power despite the obvious lack of majority in the representative body of citizens. So what the citizens are going to tell you, they're going to get out of it despite the different interpretations that we have here. So it would be worth one rule here at country level and another at local units and regional ones. So we can say that the local leader would gain great power, and the representative body would actually lose a good part of its existence and the ability to represent the will of the citizens. Here we have heard today and here that the representative body is in one hand and a collegiate body that I would not agree with because it still brings the most important financial document, that is, the most important document that has one city, municipality or county. So this is the key to this law, and you're really getting all the other clarifications. And the reason we got the first stability. So, if we don't bring this in, there is a huge instability in 2018, or a potential 150 early elections, even though the annual average of the 2009 early local elections was 9. I know a number of examples where this change has actually brought progress to local units. We generalise the situation too much here, so the elections themselves are blocking certain projects for local units. But okay. The alleged benefit for the citizens is in no way clear to me as these same citizens through this law are partially restricted and the right to actually local self-government. The rationalisation of the local and regional self-government system which is also mentioned in the explanation. How do you explain that? In the situation of a highly centralised country of pre-gglomerated local self-government, there are some 10% to 15% of the revenue collected in its area with huge differences in fiscal capacity that are here I will say here a little bit, however, a new law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government that I must say is far better prepared than this law we are actually introducing some technical changes that have already been mentioned here. So, the deadlines are cut. Clearer definitions of certain things like coat of arms, rights. Here we also had a debate about the right to compensation per session, the absence of work for the City Council, the Municipal Council or the Assembly and, in fact, through this, we are now achieving that this law is extremely democratic. How? The reduction of deadlines for calling a referendum and the latest option they have now put into second reading, which is to be launched by two-thirds of the council. Well, we've heard here actually how many times this instrument has been used in the first place. If in eight years we've had two attempts and both have ended up in fact failing this recall initiative, it means that this impeachment is practically impossible. We can't represent this as some kind of big change. decentralisation is a lot of talk about it, it is always listed in every law relating to local self-government. But this law unfortunately doesn't have a D of decentralisation either. How are we going to do that decentralisation if we don't do those analytically important things, so data monitoring costs, personnel, initiatives. What about the Public Administration Development Strategy for the period 2015, 2020, was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 2015. So, we're not discussing these issues here. My colleagues and colleagues, the citizens are primarily interested in what quality they will get from their city, municipal or county administrations, rather than how they choose the leader and how they will replace him. We're losing trust. Look at how the turnout goes down in the local elections. In 2009, we presented this as a big one step ahead to elect directly the mayors, mayors, mayors. Yes, I also welcome it, but unfortunately the turnout has fallen, the turnout has fallen to the local elections. For what? So do we care about things out of focus? And while we are here arguing whether the executive power is being strengthened, whether the representative power is being strengthened. Unfortunately, the turnout will be even less. Instead of involving citizens in decision-making processes through certain things that may need to be legalized by e-referendum, e-consultation which is one good of course progress in advance, the use of even more social networks. It is one trend of local self-government in Europe, and we are leading to absurdities that are important only to us. Citizens in every local community simply must have the possibility of real participation in the decision, in a decision that in democracy complex, complex and citizens must not be held hostage to the inability of local political actors, their bickering. The excessive concentration of the power of executive leaders, unfortunately, brings of course with weak control mechanisms, opens up a space for corruption. It is undeniable, just as it is undisputed that executive leaders, mayors, mayors, mayors bear the greatest responsibility but are not alone. All the leaders go to the polls and get that election with their team. This team is actually his list of councils or congregations. And if citizens have decided to give trust to some or more other lists and the leader must simply respect it and compromise on the well-being of the city, municipalities or county. So are the councilmen. If they can't be agreed, then the elections must be both at the same time. It's democracy. That's how it works. It's not ideal, but they say it's the least bad system we know. So let's not go through the law to force someone to compromise. One who wants to work, or one who wants to build, will build and build without law, and one who wants to break down, will do so despite the law. Through this law, unfortunately, we celebrate democracy at the level where it is the tiniest, where it is still fragile, and that is local democracy. So we're going into a conflict with the Constitution which clearly states that the right to self-government is being exercised through local or regional representative bodies. We are going into collapsing with the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which also says that these rights will be exercised through the councils or congregations that are composed of members elected in the free elections. And what exactly is our excuse for all this? The justification that this will ultimately lead to a reduction in the possibility of frequent early elections. And will he? Will this vague law, which will, in fact, reduce the role of the local council, repeat once again or as our colleagues say from the authorities, but some from the opposition, that the Council is actually increasing its powers, mean reducing the possibility of early elections. Well, maybe it won't, maybe it won't, but maybe it'll just take the whole year. The gap between local authorities and citizens will grow further, and local authorities are both councils and leaders. The suspicions that we have doubts that we have been following this law from the beginning and from a number of representatives and from the media, which is that it was made for some cities or for a very specific city in which such a law corresponds to the leader. And they're opposition. We're not blind. This law cannot be supported, because I repeat once again is not in the interest of citizens or political processes such as those in local units or the development of local democracy with which it is in stark contrast. The city councils remain even more only handlifters, and instead of strengthening them, we weaken them with this bill of law. Therefore, this division between the executive and the representative authorities must simply function at local level because otherwise we do not have the need to have, with representative bodies, local and regional governments with absolute powers that do not correspond to anyone and no one controls them. I hope that's not this step. For this reason, this law cannot be supported by the SDP's Club of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62751	We have a few replicas. There were a few times, but okay, I'll let them all. The first is the replica of the respected representative of Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62752	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Comrade Welligaj. So, I agree with a lot of what you pointed out, what you said. You said at one point that this law does not go in the direction of greater democratisation. But it seems to me that you have not highlighted the fact enough, so we have heard in many debates, so it is the leader who is directly elected, that he is directly elected by the citizens. I didn't hear you emphasized that the representative body, so representatives of the representative body were also elected by citizens. So, if it wasn't just the leader who was elected and that it was actually the will of the citizens or the will of the citizens. Which is why we are now going into these amendments and additions to the laws that are actually leading to the weakening of that position, which are actually leading to less democratisation. What remains to be done? What remains in the work of the representative body? What are the powers and, in fact, the quality of the work of a representative body, i.e. some units of local administration and self-government, is guaranteed. This is my question, therefore, of how the greater will be interpreted now and whether the higher quality of action and the leader or representative body will be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62753	The answer of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62754	Thank you, colleague Alfirev. So here I think that I have made it very clear in the debate what the importance of the representative body is, in fact, because I have also quoted certain provisions and the Constitution and the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Someone here said one man can't do anything but one man can do anything. Look, this one man always goes what I said in the debate, always goes to elections with a certain team of people, with it, it's quite clear. If we don't bring together good and good-quality people around us, we'll hardly have success, not just in running a local unit, but in general, in life, in the business world. So, in this situation, actually we here, these people kind of derrogate. For what? I don't know, instead of making sure people get more involved in town councils. We're going to have problems, and here's someone also mentioned today how we're going to find people who are going to run for office? Yeah, how do we find people who'll even go on the list? Which is why they're gonna go... If he can't decide anything? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then what's that for? What do we choose councils for anyway, assembly? Then let's change the whole model and then we'll have to start changing the Constitution, then we'll have to run this one, too, changing the European Charter of Local Self-Government. This is how it works in the EU. To involve people, in participation, in today's modern technology world, it is much easier to achieve the participation of citizens than it used to be. It's much easier to hold e-referendums, much easier through social networks to get certain information. That can be very positive. It can also be negative sometimes, and that's what we've witnessed. But if we have some kind of intensity, to weaken that impression of the citizens, that's the intensity that was created. We can meet here... One way or another. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was created and we in these laws actually encourage even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62755	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62756	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Vesligai, here's from your experience you've been discussing in the right direction as far as this law is concerned. I would like here in my replica to draw attention to one thing, which we, as the HSS Club and through the amendment, will submit to this law, is the Commissioner of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who may be, for which he may be appointed, the officer of the unit of local, regional self-government. It means the head of some management department, county, city or municipality. Who is this man? That's the angle. The mayor's or mayor's people, who he set up there himself, and that man would, so until the next election, re-implement the policy of the leader who was until then and who should go to new elections or a referendum or something. We feel that it is not good and that it cannot be so in this law, that it can be, must be removed, since the office of the state administration is listed here, i.e. people from the state administration's office, which we think is enough, because these cases don't happen every day, and they happen very rarely, and we think that the state administration's office can certainly cover it and that there's no way that a body leader can be appointed as commissioner and carry out the politics of a particular unit of local self-government or regional government, which is because of his wrong policy and has come into the situation he's come into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62757	The answer of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62758	Thank you. Well, since you touched this Commissioner issue, I didn't mention it in the debate itself. What I don't understand is how the Commissioner can actually be a civil servant. Well, it's kind of a violation of the charter, but I'm just going to say one practical example. So what, then we have state officials who don't do their jobs? If this civil servant is employed in a particular workplace, how can he perform the role of Commissioners? I don't understand it, I don't understand it, because we have obviously extra civil servants, so we can deploy them. It's also true. So, of course, this problem that the Commissioner can name anyone. So, I don't know, it turns out that now a civil servant or a local official who will be appointed commissioner may, without any democratic legitimacy obtained in the local community, appoint other local services. I think it is also, unfortunately, a blow to this development of local democracy that is in danger in Croatia, it is a fact with this adoption of the law. I repeat again, the direction we've established here is not good, and this needs to be changed. In my opinion, this law cannot fix it with amendments, but we need a whole new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62759	Thank you. The next replica is a respected representative, Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62760	I wanted to tell you one thought, which is that it's all over Europe, so I'd dare say and beyond, in part, one centralization of power. So it has nothing to do with some municipality in Croatia or some city, it is simply a broader political programme. The goal is to put everything under one hat, the goal is essentially to concentrate power, or power in the hands of as few people as possible. Now, this goal is contrary to the goal of democracy, however, from the nature of the financial system, which has been set up in a way that a few, apriories, who lends money, and we all others including the state, those who are dependent on its lending, automatically the lender has all the power and he actually controls both the media and politics, etc. I agree with you, in the sense that I am against centralised and power in the hands of an individual, however, my opposition exceeds that level and I question not that but also the general centralisation of power and power. And you in the SDP unfortunately support this credit system where the money is debt, where the CNB exchange office, where credits cannot be returned, where they are all, in fact 99% of the society is in a dependent position and is not free. And what is happening now, what the HDZ is pushing this bill of law is just one credible continuation of this policy-oriented, or I would dare say one war against democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62761	The answer of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62762	Comrade Pernar, here you have gone a little bit into these global flows as you normally love it in your discussions, of course it's a democratic right, this is now a topic of local self-government. I've pulled a lot of parallels with EU countries, of course not with everyone. But the whole development, I have to say, is that the EU rests on one decentralisation. Only highly decentralised countries are actually countries that have achieved the real development, I am talking of course about countries with which Croatia can compare, so the size of Croatia and I will mention here is Scandinavian country, perhaps an example of Denmark and Ireland, perhaps which has also carried out a successful decentralisation. For what? So one of the main principles of the EU is, in fact, the principle of subsidiarity that decisions are made at the level where citizens themselves are influenced. And this is also, I will say one violation, a violation of this principle. And so is that. And the rest of what you mentioned, that we have a concentration of power around the world, but mostly maybe that financial capital, I think that still local self-government is doing the things that directly affect citizens and you've still had the good part of it, and despite the fact that it's falling out to local elections, but it's precisely because of these bad laws and these bad messages that the media is sending. Local politicians are still the ones citizens trust the most. That's what several recent researches say. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62763	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62764	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of Croatia. Dear fellow Members, you spoke in your debate about the key intensity, so the key condition of this law offered by the Government is that this law actually wants to create security, stability, that is, balance between the representative body and the executive authority. This law, unfortunately, will not happen, will happen quite the opposite. Namely, let's rephrase it to the local level. Okay, there won't be a lot of extraordinary elections, there won't be any elections until now, there won't be any elections for that reason, because the municipal council, the city council, or the county assembly, will certainly not break the budget, since in that case it would go to the elections itself, not the Executive Authority itself. However, what will the council members do about cohabitation? It is precisely because they do not have the obligation of the Financial Responsibility Act that they will probably try to force the Executive Authority's representative to withdraw the budget. That's not gonna happen either. So the representatives, so the mayors, mayors, will not withdraw the budgets because only they would go to new elections. In fact, it will happen that the Commissioners, the Executive Authority will actually give up these amendments in the coming period, because these amendments will not be realised because the Commissioner, or the Executive Authority, must respect the Fiscal Responsibility Act. And what exactly is going to happen? There will be an even bigger gap, an even bigger conflict between, on the one hand, representatives of the executive authority and representative bodies. But if it was the intensity of this law, then I really don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62765	The answer of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62766	So here, briefly just, yes, you said well, I will, surely, be created between representative and executive bodies, we are actually creating it through the proposal of this law. We're very much complicating the entire system of local self-government that we should probably simplify to make it as easy for citizens as possible and now that you're only going to read this law, these changes, you're also lost in it. It is not good, I repeat once again the message we send to citizens in this way, we should discuss those things about life, the better lives of citizens in local units, not that every few years we change the law that applies to how their representatives will be elected, how they will be replaced and then that they must listen here as we discuss for hours in the Croatian Parliament. Croatia is a centralised country, Croatia did not go in the right direction of decentralisation, these are the policies to be discussed here and which we need to talk about. And this law doesn't go that way at all. Not a bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62767	The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62768	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, it constantly tends, or in most discussions it tends not to be able to replace the local leader. And then I ask myself a question, and why would they replace the local leader? I really don't see a reason why we want to pass the law by which we're going to replace local leaders or we want to pass the law by which we choose them and allow them to work. And there's always a question about whether the local leader has a responsibility, who has a responsibility, who he has a responsibility for, whether he's doing something alone that no one else knows. And what does a local leader do to make no one else know? At the very least, if there is no headship, if there is no collective responsibility, so we have the possibility and the vast majority of local leaders and benefits to convene public colleges with the headmasters, with their services, and to publicly present everything he does, is it not, in the end, an interest to present everything he does to the local leader? Well, of course it is because no local leader certainly or rarely has any interest in making as much as possible for their environments and showing it all to their citizens if they want to win tomorrow's elections again trust or want to ultimately mark their mandate with successes in their work on the political scene. And it's really funny for me to listen to this more about changing the local leader, we won't be able to replace him, we won't be able to do it like this, we won't do it like that. I say this as a man who was a local leader and now I speak in the interest of local leaders, but I also speak in the interest of citizens in the extreme case. So Croatian citizens like to choose directly, like to choose a name and a last name. And I don't see any reason why that would be bad. As I don't really see any problem in the fact that the local leader has responsibility and obligation and that he can ultimately make decisions. Some collective management, collective responsibilities very rarely or almost in no way bring progress. It's about what my colleague Sponza said. Are we aware of how many of these local leaders are all kinds of laws, pressures, often winding facts, media pressure truths, and how much, for all of these reasons, they can't do many things that they would normally do to manage a private company, a private company, a completely different story? The relationship between the council or the assembly at the level of the county and the local leader, let's not be children. We all have enough experience in that. That mayor, mayor or mayor who is unable to provide a majority in his representative body should not even be a local leader briefly and clearly. On the other hand, every local leader normally wants to make a majority in his representative body. And now we put ourselves in a decision-making situation on the representative body, come on, there's the mayor, there's those who were, there's those who would be, there's those who are. Let us be realistic that what this council or congregation is bringing so much? And I repeat again, and I will re-absorb my colleague Sponz because he was excellent in speaking, excellently set up the matter, which is the responsibility of the representative body, which is the responsibility of the councilman in some congregation or council. What's the responsibility? She's gone. When the lawyers arrive, CRIME the police, various services, they all come to the local leader. It's all his fault. No one goes to ask any councilman anything and we can't put into the same ratio while such a law, and always the first person is always responsible, it's always guilty. She's always like it's said in Croatia that's interesting. When something good is done, then they're all responsible, when something doesn't work out, then it's one. It's always a local leader because he's exposed, because he's always in front of people. This law, these amendments to the law, are realistically not going to bring a lot of new things. He won't bring anything new. It's called the lex sheriff totally wrong, totally wrong. And I don't know if those who speak lex sheriff read the same text that I read, that we all read. I don't know. Or different whole, I have no idea. He doesn't have a clue. Most of the time, I told the Committee on Local Self-Government that this is a lex representative body, and then I actually did a little more analysis and I said this is a lex deal and it's only in one part. In that part of the budget where now the local leader cannot stage, provoke elections both for himself and for the representative body, and we know how they ended up. Whenever a local leader provoked the election by budgeting most, he won the next election and won the majority in the council or she. I speak now in one generation and another. Now that's making it impossible. Therefore, it is impossible for the local leader to provoke early elections by this law, because he cannot withdraw the budget and cannot, therefore, propose it. If he wants to bring it, if he doesn't have a majority in the council, he has to deal with the council. It has to reach an agreement, it has to reach an agreement so it can work. And in that part of me, the law isn't bad. I would like to personally and the minister announced that it would go to a new law, a whole, that this law also addressed the issue of what I was saying in the debate in the first reading, to limit the number of professionals in both small municipalities and cities. And I repeat, it's not normal for even two professionals to be in a small community by their will, by their will, by the will of no one else on the side. It is personal to decide whether or not it will be in a small town, and Croatia is the small-town state to be three professionals. For what? How much does that cost? You know how much it costs? About 300 thousand kunas one a year times 4 years a million 200. Now, let's say something that burns me a little bit, and I'm not glad it wasn't built into these amendments to the law, to limit that number. And we're going to have to get there, we're going to have to seriously consider this situation in Croatia and see which unit of local self-government can be a professional at all, and in which unit of local self-government can be and how many professionals? These are things where it could directly affect what you believe often torture Croatian citizens and which in some ways impoverish the budget of local self-government units. There have been talk of both leaders and many things. Well, the head of finance is a responsible person. Each head is responsible for his portfolio, but the Head of Finance is the same person responsible for the statement of the Accountability Act in the implementation of the budget and the adoption of the budget, the Fiscal Responsibility Act. So he's a professional and he's chosen, so he can't be changed, he's not in office, but he's also put up with the law, and he's certainly not in the interest of allowing a local leader, that he doesn't know he's doing too much stupid things to hang on to then and that supervisor who's there. So, we have this fuse, and I'm saying, simply, we have a situation that often local leaders are really exposed to everything and everything, disabled in principle by that uninterrupted work of theirs, and let's not create a picture in this assembly in the Croatian Parliament, according to the local community, and according to the people chosen there, that these are some people who do some evil. Let's not be independent of any foreigners. Let's not do this because you've been saying it over and over again, and I'll do it again. These are the people most exposed, the eyes of the direct public, the eyes of their fellow citizens, who go with them for coffee, who meet them. Which they take by the sleeve and ask why it wasn't done. And let's not send a picture of some bad guys from here. They're not bad guys, they're not bad guys. Every man on the local self-government, puts out his name, is the man who gave himself. And it's a huge percentage of people who want to do something for their environment. If they work for their environment, they also work for the Croatian state, my God. That's why it's not good when you send a message like this. And I repeat, and that's what I'm going to end up with, let's stop looking for a way to replace the local leader. Let us find a way to enable him to be more efficient, to do more for himself, his environment, his fellow citizens and for the Republic of Croatia. We'll back up as a club amending this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62769	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Robert Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62770	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You asked your colleague Hrg at the beginning of the presentation, why would anyone even want to replace the local executive leader. That was your question. I would say first and foremost that I respect a large number of mayors, mayors and mayors who conduct their duties with honor and responsibility, as well as many other persons in other professions. But there's an old people's saying, every grain has a weed in it. When there are simply situations, when some executive leaders do not comply with the law, or there are other circumstances, which would question their credibility, integrity, ability to perform the service. I'll give you a few reasons to instruct me as a councilman in some representative body, to raise my hand to initiate the recall procedure. A negative State Audit report, a material damage to the local self-government unit, which is clearly intrinsic. It's a confirmed criminal charge. Certain moral or ethical reasons, which would be undeniable. So, in a situation like this, I don't want to go any further, because I don't have time for that. But look at the situation which is now the freshest. You have one head in a county in which you have no ethical reason to be able to influence his resignation, except that the president of the party asks him to be responsible for his duties and actually act accordingly. So, ethically, because there is no legal mechanism, to relieve him of his duties in a situation when the party president says so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62771	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62772	My colleague Podolnjak, all of what you've listed, is quite all right, and these are situations and cases when they're moving into resolution procedures. But in this part of the 1-2 reading now, those 2/3 of the councilmen who can launch this referendum were inserted. But what are we inclined to do in Croatia? We tend to condemn people publicly, accuse them, and put them in jail, and they're not guilty at all. And then what? So for 16.5 years, I acted as mayor. They hit me with mud, so many times, I'm a little man walking. It's all going to last, and I'm talking from that angle. I'm not that anymore. But I still know what it means to be a local leader, and to anyone chosen, I congratulate him first that he ran and I want him to succeed, because I know how hard it is. And what you've been up to, there's a number of ways and models to do it. At the very least, very few in promiscuous numbers can be measured by people who would not stand down on their own in some of these difficult cases with these duties. So, I'm saying, let's not legally impose a desire to replace the leader. Let us give these people who have chosen citizens the opportunity to do something in their midst because we are constantly Satanizing them. I've been listening in this assembly for over five years, constantly Satanizing local officials. Well, for God's sake, a lot more. And I always say what the sheriff is, the sheriff's a good guy, on the other hand he's a thug, so at least he's in cowboy movies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62773	Thank you. We will now move on to the next Club of Representatives and this is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62774	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, State Secretary. So here's very soon after, really soon after the first reading we have the final bill in the second reading. I think it's technically done a very large job of preparing and processing the legal text, so it should be commended in this sense by the minister and professional service in the ministry. Although, I think maybe it would be more politically wise if we had this final bill after this year, say, at the 1st month. Well, I believe most of the criticisms we've heard here that he's working for someone, to save someone, would be much easier or wouldn't actually be. Here, as I said, the text for the second reading is prepared, we have some changes and I have even noticed and some suggestions of the opposition have been adopted which should certainly be commended by the promoter. In the first debate, I focused on what was really the only real thing that was important in relation to the whole law that was actually before us, which is the relationship between this representative body and the mayor. 16 years we had one model, then we had different models. Somehow it seems to me through the first debate and also here in the second, in the discussion in the second reading of most present mayors and mayors or former mayors and mayors actually the most prone model that was from 2009 to 2013 when we had a model that only the representative body went to elections in case of budget failure. It's understandable and understandable to me, but I don't think that balance existed between those two bodies and that somehow it was fairer for this relationship to change. Because the fact is that the Chief could abuse his powers and withdraw his budget or not suggest it. These were extreme examples that were not many but were still there. And in that period, when only the representative body went to the elections, we had about 20 budget failures and therefore temporary elections. Whether or not a model is adopted, I think it's a purely real political issue, our political commitment that we really want. And as I said in my first reading, if we don't want to have an election, we don't have a temporary election, we can narrow it down to the best possible measure, I think it's going to be really rare, then this is the best model. Then, very, very rarely, it will happen that the representative body will not adopt the budget or that the chief will decide not to propose it so that he only goes. So the two of them, so these two legitimacys that draw one and the other, so the executive body and the representative body will go so rarely to check, they will simply be forced to cooperate. And it will not only have to be manifested in the budgets but it will also have to be manifested to many other, less important decisions. The fact is that the existing model, which is now in force, where, when the budget is not adopted, is going to the elections, so both bodies, that the councilors were mostly, therefore, guilty, of this institute. It's a fact that's easily verifiable, they've abused this institute so much in some units that it's been absurd. We can only take Vrgorac for example where there were several elections in this term, almost every year there were elections, which was certainly not good for Vrgorac. However, only if this bill is passed, when we turn the whole, will we be able to assess the full mandate and what this proposed model is like. I also raised my doubts in my first reading, and now I'm going to repeat something here, so I'm still doubting whether this is the best model to solve a conflict between the head of the representative body. Because it's easy while it's good, while we have two constructive sides but when we have two conflicted sides that don't give in, then we have a situation that just comes to the point that whatever the chief proposes is rejected or changed into a significant, significant part. And we don't actually have a mechanism to solve it. I certainly think that the council members in those municipalities, cities and counties where the mayor, mayor and mayor do not have the majority to change their budgets but also to change any decisions proposed by the municipal mayor, mayor and mayor. As for the change in the text in relation to the first reading, I think it is a good thing that the proposer deleted the provision that found that early elections would not take place if 12 months to regular elections and the term of office of the deputy chief, who acted in fact would be the mayor, mayor and mayor, although it would be the benefit that would not have early elections and a very short term of the newly elected head, I think that the benefits would be much greater for the election to be because, however, the Prime Minister does not have the authority of the elected municipal chief, mayor and mayor. There will certainly be no choice if these early choirs fall in the year when the regular elections are held. What I think is the biggest change that everyone who had discussed before me has found is that the institution of impeachment is in place, or a referendum on impeachment by the councilors, and 2/3 of the councilors, so it would take 2/3 of the majority of the council members. I think it's a fair system. The fact is that really if a municipal chief, mayor or mayor is put in a position that 2/3 of the representative bodies are against him, there will be no cooperation there, and that they should be allowed in fact the possibility to launch the impeachment institute. The fact is that calling off 2/3 of the council is just a matter of calling off the referendum, doesn't mean automatically calling off, so voters will finally say their own. What I see as a lack of this institute is exactly, so this tool also has councilors but similar tools or some other tool will not have a chief because there will come a situation such that the Chief will want to go to elections but together with the representative body when he sees that in fact every proposal he has is either rejected or amended in a significant form. What's the same lack of this institute is that we don't have previous experience in this institute recalling through the referendum, so since he was introduced we haven't had any referendums of this type so we haven't had any recalls. Finally, I find it good that no proposals were adopted that were in the first reading and even on the parliamentary committee concerning the amendment to the budget itself. True, there is a danger that this budget should be substantially amended by the council but I think that the law on the budget and the budget itself and the budgetary mechanism itself has its logic, that this logic should be released and that the council still needs to be allowed the freedom to propose amendments to the budget. True, when we think about it, we were discussing 150 budgets yesterday, the question of what the state budget would look like if we adopted all 150 budgets, but I'm saying, I think these are extremely rare situations and there won't be any. I'm saying, if this bill is passed, I don't think there will be any more early elections, I believe there will be no referendum on impeachment, that there will be a very, very extreme situation that 2/3 of the council is against the commissioners. As far as I can remember, I think we only had more famous cases in the city of Zagreb when Mr. Bandic left the SDP, then he practically actually had the entire city assembly against himself but then there was no possibility of being replaced because only the representative body could go to early elections. Finally, I would stress only this fact, so I think this is a purely political commitment, whether this model is the best or most successful, that we will not be able to make a real assessment for 4 years full of its application, or after the next local elections waiting for us in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62775	Thank you very much, we have a replica of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62776	Thank you very much. My colleague Milosevic, I agree with most of your debate, but I am personally experiencing as head of local self-government this law with one good framework which as politicians, as leaders, makes us work together, there are no moments to defend us. So, we've been listening here today for, say, some remarks on fees. Who forbids the councilmen of this law to work for 0 kuna? Or the Chief or the Deputy Chief? Don't defend the law. We're leaving room to model down at the local level, so if they don't think there's gonna be a fee, let's make that decision, right? Does our relationship make us fall apart? It doesn't force us and gives both the Commissioner and the representative body the opportunity to make their policies come true. If I understand this correctly. So if you're an uninterested council and you're in cohabitation with a leader, then you may not have any interest and the captain rightly knocks you down. So we'll look for a new majority. But if you're an interested council, who wants to model policies at local level, then you'll make nice amendments to the budget, he'll either adopt or he won't adopt but there's no more chance that something won't happen then. They will have to co-operate with the council and agree on these amendments, then everyone participates in modeling politics. We've had a one-sided move so far. The local leader wouldn't give a budget, so let's all go to the polls if it didn't fit. Why? So let's really look at it as it says. And let's work together, and I'm not sure there'll be any choice, there'll be a choice. Why? Because a 20% referendum in small communities allows for a referendum to be called without a problem. Whether referendum initiatives will be implemented is a second question but the code does not defend. We've had cemented things so far that you know clearly what you're not supposed to do, so you'd behave like that, so let's really look at the law the way it's written and you'll see that this is a very good law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62777	Thank you. The answer of fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62778	Dear counterpart Boris, so I agree with you, and I think that you should leave especially in the laws as large as possible and as much freedom as possible for local self-government units to arrange their sexes and some of their relationships as they think is best. However, we also have this law which is an organic law governing the establishment of local self-government, which the state intervenes in these relations in an effort to set some framework rules. And now we're changing the law because the proposer said we had too many early elections, so he decided to intervene in a way that would reduce the possibility that both the council and the mayor or the mayor and the mayor would force co-operation with the representative body to actually make the early elections less and less. Interventions are not desirable, but sometimes they are necessary. For example, we have a situation although the law says local committees should be established, although in the statutes we have envisaged local committees... units of local self-government, we don't have an election scheduled for them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can warn such municipalities and cities to establish or to discuss elections for local committees and they will not because there is no sanctions. As for the referendum, I say, I welcome what was introduced in the second reading, I think that's good, unfortunately I've said since 2009, so here we have no experience of the recall referendum, we have experience of local referendums, they were held around 11th of 2009, so here and 2 have succeeded. In the Municipality of Gorican and I think she made it to the town of Ploche. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62779	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives, on behalf of whom will speak the esteemed Representative Rechim Varda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62780	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So I'll just give a few hints. At first, I thought I'd give up after the debate of the respected representative Sponza. It's all said to me. But it would explode if I didn't say next. Lex Sheriff and we heard it here in the Assembly Hall and Lex Bandic. Mr. Minister, I'm speaking to you personally, you've given an explanation. If you have prepared this law and proposed for the mayor of Zagreb, Mr Bandic, withdraw it. Take it back right now, Mayor Bandic doesn't need it, he doesn't need it, and he doesn't need many mayors and mayors here, he doesn't need it. Why? That's why what Mr. Sponza said. First, they realized that a part - round congregation or council was determined by the Constitution and decisions were made by councils and those congregations. They're not brought by the mayor or the mayor or the mayor. He only executes them. It's true, and he's proposing. And he's subjected to criticism. And tomorrow, the amendments to the budget. And who's the responsibility? The mayor, the mayor, the mayor. The collective body doesn't fit anywhere, not even in this House. And then you have a situation where we in these councils, in the congregations, reflect the situation of this House. Anyone can say what he wants, anyone can suggest what he wants, anyone can call whoever he wants, anyone can insult anyone he wants without responsibility. No responsibility. And we reflect this political situation from Parliament to these councils and congregations and that's evil. We forget that representative bodies in municipalities, cities and counties are headed by executive bodies should actually work for the benefit of the citizens for which they are. I'm not going to say now that they've been elected directly and that they normally have certain rights, but trust me, a great responsibility unlike the representative body. They've got state's audit surveillance, they've got police supervision and state's attorney's office. But we've learned that the presummation of innocence is something that you're not concerned with. It's none of our business. We rock people as we do here, and then Mr. Vice President, considering and leading the Rules of Procedure Group, and then it's said that we can say whatever we want, we can insult whoever we want, we can accuse whoever we want without responsibility because we're protected by immunity as a bear. If that is the responsibility we would allow, and we call upon the people here and here and in these councils and in these congregations, then when the people sue you, you shall choose to defend yourself before the people where this place is, and not the assembly speaker and not the municipal council's pay phone, city hall or county. That's where he defends himself. And there they would have serious debates both in the Parliament and in these councils and in the congregations. We'd be more responsible. Besides, our Rules of Procedure, I think that if I have written in my Rules of Procedure, I no longer know where I wrote down it, but it doesn't matter, Article 23, 24, yes, Rules of Procedure doesn't speak at all about the fact that it has to be Parliament's practice, they don't speak. That's what we invented by protecting ourselves. And it's being redeployed at all levels again. Well, we were witnesses today, and today we were witnesses, people, because it's being crossed across all lines. Today we witnessed terrible accusations without responsibility. What do you think in the municipal councils, in the county councils, the city councils don't listen to us? That's where we carry these very political political battles of ours and we're not talking about the benefit of the citizens. We've crossed the situation from the Parliament. Mr. Minister, it doesn't matter to me whether it's 2/3 or qualified majority of councilmen, it doesn't matter. To hell with being so free to say, very freely both the mayor and the mayor and the mayor who is unable to provide the majority in their council or assembly. Well, then we have to, he'll go alone. He'll go alone. Thus, it does not matter whether the majority or 2/3 of the majority is qualified. He's always got half a majority. And we're not gonna do it exactly like that. I'm either in favour of his recall or his referendum. So, not to say again, I thought I'd really give up, after fellow Sponze, and also the replicas of counterpart Klaric at his hearing, because there's really no need, it's all clear. Finally, let me just say that the Club, representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Club, Reformist and Independent, will vote in favour of this bill, with any amendments this government will adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62781	Thank you, we have one replica, a respected representative of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62782	Just one, I just want to add to what you said, colleague Varada, I totally agree with everything you said, but let's get this story straight again, which is why this law can't be called what you said. If someone wins five times, either by direct choice or by report or by the assembly. Someone, those other sides will call out, never won or had a chance to behave. And obviously something's wrong. Now we hear that everything needs to be decided by the citizens. So whoever picked someone five times, you're the same citizen, with a full resume, with everything you brought before them. And then they tell you, these same citizens can't take you down who chose you, because this law doesn't allow anything. So this law called for everything. At least that's how I understood him. And there's a possibility it's just a question, which we want to use. What the congregation wants to use, the council, is what the leader wants to use either his deputy or what I know. It means calling on citizens when you're comfortable, calling on them again when you're not comfortable with them, it's not right. Because someone chose those leaders, you same citizens. Even though they didn't mind anything until now, we get to the last part of it, the presumption of innocence, which we will. Here, we're listening to a fellow Mosto, without you being charged, that someone, because somewhere in the paper, because someone I don't know, made something, a picture was created in the media, you're wrong to choose. Well, people don't exactly accept it in the field. It's not exactly what the opposite effect is, just the ones that were most in the media, who were accused won without a problem. We'll admit that's the way it is. Who's wrong with that? With the head, with the citizens or the law wrong again? It can't all be by the law, as you might say then. So let's let democracy go, let's travel some experience, which will happen now in four years, and you'll see that there will be a choice. There will be a choice if they want to use the levers of this law, which he allows.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62783	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed attorney, Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I have nothing to add, except to underline, if members of the representative body, both the mayor and the mayor understand that they are there for citizens and this proves practice, that some mayors, mayors and mayors have been elected several times, several mandates. If they were here for the sake of the citizens, then even the day the law can't handle it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62785	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Mladen Madjer will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62786	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Minister with the Secretary of State. First of all, as the former head of the municipality insults this name Lex Sheriff, Lex Pharaoh, I think these are names that are not similar to those chosen and which conduct of duty, chief, mayor and mayor. But at the same time, both this bill and a series of these discussions that were conducted here in the Parliament, it is clear that there are still certain modifications to this law. Well, I think that some more adjustments would be needed in this law, because I must warn, if it means there is a responsibility of the local self-government leader, so mayor, mayor and chief of staff, there is fiscal responsibility, that he is responsible for the implementation of the budget. In the middle where the majority of the mayor, mayor or mayor has, clearly, it will be easy to pass. But in those environments where there is no majority, where there will be certain problems, it can practically be a council or assembly with its amendments within the budget to change a lot of things in budgeting, clearly within those limits how planned the budget is. And I think there might be a lot of problems here. And then there's the responsibility, clearly the representative body and the chief, that is, the mayor who was elected right in front of his locals. So that's a little bit of a relationship I'm saying, in those environments where most of them are, there won't be any problem. But there's one more thing that this law has a lot of problems. Here, we are, I don't know, someone in their debate, mentioned also about the head of the single vertical departments or the head of the municipalities I think someone mentioned, that a mandate should be elected with the commissioners. I don't think that's right. I think every head of local self-government's poor people have to do their duty professionally, which they've been chosen to compete with, and I don't think that should interfere. So the leaders with the choice of one political choice of unit leaders of local self-government or assembly but also there is a problem and not only the head of the municipality but also in other community employees. Maybe it's not regulated by this law. A different relationship should be arranged with employees and municipalities and cities, because it always comes as I come from a smaller municipality with the replacement of mayors or mayors comes to a certain point, and I must say the impatience of the elected mayor or chief of staff, so this should be resolved with a different collective contract although it is not the subject of this law. But I would just like to warn you that in future law, collectively or collectively, too. The HSS Club has tabled two amendments. It refers to this two-thirds majority, meaning the impeachment of the mayor, mayor, so far it has been possible for 20% of all voters to be a referendum. You're in the proposal for a new law to be two-thirds of the representative body. And I think that's why the HSS club put the amendment to it, so most of the councilors, because we think it's better if it's still, who has two-thirds, the two-thirds majority there won't be another mention, there won't be any problems. That is why we believe that this means Article 45, paragraph 2, two-thirds is replaced by the words of the super-half majority, that now the majority of the members of the representative body are. One amendment. The second amendment to delete in Article 86(2) of the word ‘local or regional self-government unit’ and the indent 2 is added in paragraph 3 which reads as follows: ‘Not a member of any political party’. It is about the appointment of Commissioners in the units of local self-government, because we believe that the managing officer of the unit of local self-government, i.e. The director cannot objectively carry out the work of the commissioner because of the fact that he has been replaced by the mayor, the mayor and the mayor. We also think that under conditions that the Commissioner must meet, it is necessary to add that he must not be a member of any political party in order to carry out his job highly professionally without any political pressure. So maybe it's not a problem in big cities, but in small units of local self-government it's a pretty big problem. And the whole law clearly when they are declared here in the Assembly must be respected at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia. Although the problem is laws that are passed in large cities, in large counties compared to small municipalities. But clearly the law has been passed and he has to be respected. And the club of Assembly MPs of the HSS will support this law, but with these two amendments proposed by the HSS Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62787	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62788	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague cannot agree with part of your amendment that the Commissioner is not a member so that he practically has to be limited so that he should not be a member of any political option. I think that everyone here in the Parliament, and also outside the Parliament that we are dealing with, which we are politically engaged in, we are dealing with politics independently of local to national level, right now, we want as many people as possible involved in political processes not necessarily through political parties, but that as citizens, they participate in it. So we're kind of limiting citizens' rights. Then it was analogous to this equally you could require that the Commissioner be reconsidered that he is not a sympathiser, I do not see what the difference is between an active, passive member of the sympathiser's particular political option. And I think that's what I think you're limiting the rights and freedoms of the citizens themselves. That's one thing. Secondly, the Commissioner has his limitations, his powers and is responsible for whom he appoints. It's the government of the Republic of Croatia, and I don't see what might be controversial in that part of it that he might let's say some sympathy for some political option. He's primarily a professional, and I think that at that level, which is why I can't agree with your proposal, even though you're speaking from practice, there may be a practical abuse of such positions in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62789	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Madero.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62790	Thank you. Well, just because I come from the middle I warn that especially in small units of local self-government, this is what you said well, there is a sympathiser. And most of the leaders are supporters of the then chief or mayor, but even if he were a member of the political party, it really wasn't, it wouldn't be right to be appointed Commissioner. We don't think that's right. He may be a sympathiser, but even if he's a member of a political party, he can do it directly. We know the commissioner's authority. In fact, the Commissioner's powers are laid down. But it can indirectly, and even directly affect the candidate of a future or removed mayor or mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62791	Now, in an individual debate, a respected representative, Tomislav Zhagar, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62792	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, given that this is a second reading, I will try to touch in my debate on the concrete proposal that I propose to improve this law, it is about the amendment that I have submitted but before I look back a little on these withdrawing provisions of this law, they are about the inability of the mayor, the mayor and the mayor. In fact, what we can all agree is that democracy is a process and that it is progressing in the Republic of Croatia, we see it from the reasoning of the law, where it is mentioned that in a very small number there has actually been these situations where there has been an inability of any cooperation between the representative and the executive body. However, the legislator, the government of the Republic of Croatia, is not only controlling, strives to impose some solutions on its control, but one that must direct the development of democracy in the Republic of Croatia. And it is not unwarranted to complain to the public that it again reduces the importance of the representative body at the expense of the executive body. Because the executive body, this is a fact, so it has the right to propose the budget for the first time, after the representative body has not adopted it, has the right to take the corrective exam where the representative body will go to the elections for its failure and the executive body will remain and will re-elected the representative body to propose the budget. If we look at independent mayors and mayors who have been elected and what is progress in the Republic, then it doesn't have to be bad, but we can't look at these things in part, we have to follow the principles we have accepted and... about local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now let me explain the amendment I submitted to Article 54(1). In the draft law, the Government proposed to delete the word relating to the association of local self-government units in the formation of administrative bodies, in particular those that are spatially connected to the unique whole of the municipalities and cities on the island and the like. I have here suggested adding words for them, especially for the purpose of preparing projects for withdrawing funds from EU funds. In fact, what is evident is that the Republic of Croatia is at great risk of not withdrawing all the funds available to us from EU funds, on the other hand, the units of local self-government do not have sufficient fiscal and administrative capacity to actively engage in these processes to achieve as much or as possible the largest supply of projects that could later be applied to EU funds. There's even data that nearly 4/5 of the municipality didn't withdraw funds at all and that's the data they're worried about. This amendment actually achieves two goals. On the one hand, since a small number of units have succeeded in withdrawing funds, the setting up of such joint administrative bodies allows this and, on the other hand, those units of local self-government that are in this more successful can be an example of those who were less successful. Not only an example, but they can use common capacities. This is, of course, linked to the amendment of Article 53(2), which now stipulates that units that have less than 3,000 inhabitants no longer have to set up a single administrative department, to carry out all the jobs of their own departments can already set up administrative departments according to their needs, given the amendment to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, they will be able to employ a significant number of employees because that provision of 20% of original assets will no longer be a threat to them because, according to the new proposal of the Finance Act, the income tax is accepted as source income. So, to prescribe, in fact, to put such a proposal that units of local self-government are obliged to form an administrative body to prepare EU projects is not actually possible because we cannot compete in this way, but this possibility to establish this together with other units, and it is very welcome because, according to Minister Gabriele Žalac, very few projects have been implemented so far, about 20% of the total financial... And only 10% is paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the end of 2017, we're still three years old, and that's why I think this one's gone too far. I'm particularly glad that I always love it when the minister comes to defend the law, I'm not glad the minister hasn't heard a word but there will be opportunities to look at this amendment... Just to conclude and that's what's important, that's what I've stated in the amendment, so it's nothing revolutionary, and this way I can join the units, but I think this incentive is important, if this were to stand in the law, it'll motivate them in the end, they'll see that it's possible, and then maybe they'll follow other changes to other legal solutions so that it'll be more effective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will reach out again, 4/5 municipalities do not attract funds from EU funds, it is worrying data. The formation of a single management department, a reference department, all of this is a possibility, however, how many municipalities themselves work and how much help they need and that is the intensity of this amendment. I hope Minister, if you adopt the amendment, I will uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62793	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Greek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62794	... Just for a little while, so yesterday we heard what you're saying to your colleague, Sagar, about the withdrawal of funds, or the withdrawal of funds, is that it has increased 300 percent. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] When you have 2%, so you grow 2% to 300%, it's about 6%. Thus, the situation remains catastrophic. And that's something I wanted to say cleanly, add because you're absolutely right. So, at this point in time, according to the newly published, finally published data by the EU fund ministry. Total payments are not 10% but 7% and that is, of course, at the end of the 4th year of the financial perspective of 2014/20. A little and too little. And indeed, the meeting that took place yesterday should be a practice in the government, and that means every week it has to be at the operational level of a meeting that will determine at which stage the preparation of the projects, which is prepared, which is prepared for the negotiation, which is actually realized on the ground and how much money is really being paid. Without this very detailed and precise process of monitoring and encouraging the entire system unfortunately the result will remain more or less modest. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62795	Mr. Sagar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62796	Thank you. The esteemed Greek fellow, so two things matter. The first time you talk about tracking is exactly the intensity of this amendment is in this direction that of course, we cannot determine the units that they must establish an administrative department for European projects. But in order for the ministry to know what's going on in the field, there must be some feedback. It now has through these regular coordinators which are county development agencies, city development, LAGs but obviously not enough work done. And as for other things that may be more serious and also concern the capacity of local self-government units. We are currently in the light of research conducted by the Ministry of Regional Development and the Central Agency for the Financing and Negotiation of Project Programmes. We currently lack 2700 experts in project preparation and implementation, 2700 experts. And the rating of this work so far is from 1 to 5 somewhere is 2.5. That's not satisfactory. Therefore, through such laws to local self-government units, through other legal solutions, it is also necessary to make EU funds as attractive as possible. It's gonna happen to us. It's gonna be three years soon. It will happen to us that we will not withdraw the funds available.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62797	Thank you very much. Mr. Bauk. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Bull. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Bunjac. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Minister, here's your final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues of the Assembly MPs, parliamentary representatives. A good, constructive debate. I've also received your amendments, your written amendments. Here's something we're thinking a little bit about and how some of them might be implemented, and so we don't question the basic function of this law, which is better communication between the representative and the executive body, better work of the units of local and regional self-government. I would just like one message here for the sake of the Croatian public, for the sake of Croatian representatives and MPs. So it is a law that will apply to the entire Republic of Croatia, to all municipalities, cities and counties. I do not accept the fact that the law is done for a particular city, county or municipality or God forbid of a mayor, mayor and mayor. And I thank you. Here it is. They're warning me that my time is over. So, thanks again for the debate. You will receive answers to your amendments and I hope that this law will also be next week with a large, large majority adopted in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62799	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62800	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on local, regional and regional self-government, second reading, P.Z. No. 215. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Croatian Representatives' Club HSS, the Live Wall Representatives' Club and SNAGA, MP Robert Podolnjak, MP Tomislav Panenić and MP Tomislav Žagar. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the motionary's representative, Secretary of State Darko Nekic, to show that amendments have been submitted. We're going to Amendment number one, that's the amendment of the MP, the Honorable representative of the Downworlder, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62801	I thank Mr. President, the amendment, Article 3 of the professor's representative, Dr. Robert Dolnjak, is not accepted. Article 3 supplementing Article 7 of the applicable law provides for the optional opinion of the residents requested when changing the area of the unit of local and regional self-government. In line with the multiple views of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, it is very necessary to obtain the opinion of the population. This opinion is not binding on either the proposing or the legislator. This law therefore provides for the same and in accordance with the constitutional court’s views.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62802	Here's your colleague, Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62803	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Let me briefly tell you that this opinion of the population when changing the area of units of local self-government is a provision of the European Charter of Local Self-Government Article 3. It speaks of local authorities seeking the opinion of their citizens when the borders of local self-government change. This will be sought in a way that provides for the European Charter, a referendum if possible. The referendums were held in the Republic of Croatia in some situations in the 1990s, which is exactly the case. Of course, it's about the advisory referendum. The advisory referendum that every student of constitutional law knows is always non-binding legally. But it's politically binding. But it is not said that the advisory referendum is non-binding and that opinion is not binding. Thus, it is an entirely excessive sentence in the law, unnecessary through the advisory referendum, and it is known what its effects are. Thank you. I ask that the amendments be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62804	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so we move on to amendment number two of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62805	The amendment does not accept, the amendment proposed by Article twenty-four of the applicable law, the size of twenty per cent of the total number of voters identified as necessary when voters propose to reduce the vote to two-and-a-half per cent. The reduction in the required number of voters who have the right to propose a local referendum by almost ten times is considered excessive and unwarranted compared to the current size. Especially for units of local self-government that have tens of thousands and fewer voters in which an analogy would mean two hundred fifty voters could call a referendum every six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62806	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62807	Thank you very much, sir. So two and a half out of twenty is usually eight times. But well, that's not so important right now. But the important thing is that you brought in an excessive article. Twenty percent of the electoral bodies mean in practice, that the referendum will never be held. That's what the statistics have been showing you for the last four years. That only two referendums were held in the Republic of Croatia. This provision of the law is rigid, far more rigid than the one at national level where ten percent of the electoral bodies are prescribed to collect signatures to hold a referendum, and we have seen that even at the national level with therefore twice the percentage of referendums are not essentially held for reasons because the signatures cannot be collected. So you simply, by this draft law, deceive the public, claim that it has the right to a referendum and in practice it is not and can't have it. This is what you directly violated the right of citizens to participate in direct democracy, to decide locally on their fate, and on that side I think it is simply necessary to change this law in the way we have stated. Your fears that there will be referendums every six months are not justified, you underestimate the mind of the voters. They'll just be a little bit more common than they are now, and if there's already a referendum in the law, then it should be made possible. So we're fighting for the notion of a referendum to this law to get its true meaning. For that reason, I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62808	Let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. He did not get the required number of votes, so we are going to the amendment of Honored Representative Tomislav Panenic's amendment number three.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62809	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal for a law also provided for the provision of a way of determining compensation to members of the representative body. However, it gave up on this final proposal. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62810	Thank you. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62811	Okay, here's a thank you. I'd like to make a comment like this. So the picture we're sending not coming to the sessions was actually something that's been asking us questions here. And that's exactly why this esteemed House has made the decision to sanction those who don't come, if there are no other models. In this way we actually say no, we have one rule here, what's local is the second rule, there may not be coming to sessions as many times as you want but you'll definitely get a flat-rate monthly. I mean, is that really the message we want to send? What you are referring to is that the autonomy of the one we accept as local self-government as such which is inviolable and in the charters, I would agree here if we hadn't also made a decision on the level of wages in local self-government. Right? So we can't have two criteria, then we give, we let everything regulate local self-government, let's not have any legal act that we're editing something that they should decide for themselves. But I was very pleased to see exactly the provision when you had in your first reading because I think it is appropriate to what expectations are actually our voters and here, as well as at local levels and expectations that those who do not work are not even rewarded for it. In this way, here you are well aware then we really have numerous examples where council members do not come to the congregations or their councils and eventually receive the same reward as those who regularly come. I don't think that's fair either, but it's not something we should say that autonomous decision is a local self-government because it crosses borders particularly on moral, moral and political responsibilities. Please vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62812	Then we move to a vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed, so let's get to Amendment No. 4. It's a live wall representative's club and SNAG's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62813	The amendment is not accepted. Article 10 amending Article 40.b of the current law provides for the calling of a referendum for the impeachment of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputy mayors and it is found that the opening of the referendum may propose 20% of the total number of voters in the unit as well as in the amendment to Article 5. It is proposed that 20% of voters who could propose to reduce the call-off referendum to 2.5%, I have already said that we consider this to be excessive and unwarranted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62814	Who's going on behalf of the proposer? No one? Are you asking for a vote? ... Oh, no? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Then let's go to Amendment No. 5. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62815	The amendment shall be accepted in part and in a modified form. The amendment is proposed in Article 10 amending Article 40b of the applicable law most of the two-thirds of the members of the representative body necessary to propose to reduce the calling-off referendum to a supranational majority of all members of the representative body. The amendment now reads: “In Article 10 amending Article 40b of the Law in paragraph 2 of the word ‘two-thirds’ is replaced by the words ‘the half-dozen majority of all’. In paragraph 4, also ‘two-thirds’ are replaced by ‘the half-dominated majority’. The interventions referred to in this paragraph 4 shall be subject to the following amendment in paragraph 2. A part of the amendment resulting from the reasons for the amendment is not accepted and concerns the majority necessary for the adoption of the Decision on the calling-off referendum when the proposing members are members of the representative body. Namely, the applicant suggests that the decision to call a referendum is made by a supra-almost majority of the votes of all members of the representative body, however, the applicant remains with his proposal that the decision be taken by a two-thirds majority of the votes of all members of the representative body. In this way, we will strengthen even more a representative body that has not been able to initiate at all so far means calling a referendum for the revocation of the mayor, mayor or mayor and at the same time remains a provision whereby the referendum can be proposed by 20% of voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62816	Comrade Vlaović, here you go. ... Someone's probably involved, my colleague Babic, you've got a microphone on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62817	Thank you for your help, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club does not accept this argument and we are asking for a vote on this amendment for the reason that after pressure from the public to take the opportunity of the municipal council, the city council, the county assembly to better control the work of the executive mayor, mayor or mayor. Because you know yourself that 20% of the signatures for the referendum are difficult to collect and it will be difficult to carry out a referendum and we believe that the supra-almost majority of these municipal councils, the city council or the county assembly would make a decision to call a referendum or the county assembly when there is a greater chance of controlling the work of mayors, mayors or mayors. Because it is ultimately up to the citizens in the referendum and it is one of the direct decisions that we advocate. In this way, the pro-forma puts the possibility of a two-thirds majority to the municipal council, the city council or the county assembly, which is very difficult to collect. If I were the mayor or mayor and if two-thirds of the council didn't accept my work I'd resign myself, I wouldn't wait for a referendum to be called and I'd go to the elections. So if the citizens want me, which is the goal of democracy to decide who will lead them, and I think this is how we give the opportunity for citizens to decide who will lead the municipality, the city or the county and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62818	So we're voting now on the original proposal of the HSS Club of Representatives. ... No, he was not accepted as far as I understood my colleague Vlaovic. [[You can't hear it.]] He accepts nothing and asks to vote on his original proposal. So we vote then on the thing about...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62819	I'd like an explanation before the vote. So if the amendment is not accepted then it remains in account of what the Secretary of State has already accepted. So does the partial amendment become an integral part of the proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62820	So as far as I understand it, the proposer has withdrawn and disagrees with this interpretation of the government and asks to vote on its original amendment proposal. So we here then have a situation where the government doesn't accept what originally was, so I ask you to vote on the HSS amendment originally as it was. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to the sixth amendment of Agent Robert Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62821	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes that most of the two-thirds of the members of the representative body be reduced to one-third. The reduction of that size is considered unfounded, and the applicant considers that a more appropriate solution has been proposed in this previous amendment in the section which is also accepted that the call-off referendum can be proposed by the supposing majority of all members of the representative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62822	Here's your colleague, Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62823	Thank you, Mr. President. As you will see, I have what my colleagues from the HSS have combined into one amendment divided into two. But for this first one, I believe you should all accept it. Why? The logic is to ask for a different number of members of the representative body when initiating a proposal to find themselves in a decision-making debate and the number needed to make a decision. In particular, it is an initial proposal to discuss something at the representative body of local self-government, and it is a decision to take a decision on the calling of a referendum. It is therefore not appropriate to seek either the two-thirds majority or the half-dozen majority of all councilmen. Let me remind you, in this Croatian Assembly when you are looking for an initial number of representatives to discuss a topic, then it is never a half majority. It is one-fifth to initiate discussions on changes to the constitution, one-fifth when it comes to the discussion of the government's trust or to a minister, one-third when it comes to the issue of the president's responsibility. But you never look for a half-breed to put the topic on the agenda at all. This means that the parliamentary majority would always decide whether or not to discuss anything at all. Originally, in the 2007 law, a third of what is high enough for a topic to be placed on the agenda was sought. Therefore, I remain on the proposal, it is only reasonable to discuss the subject and that one third try to convince the remaining council members to decide on a decision to call a referendum. I'm in the market for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62824	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. We move on to amendment number seven of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62825	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment continues to propose that most of the two-thirds of the members of the representative body need to make a decision to call the recall referendum to be reduced to a majority of the votes of all members. The reduction of that size is considered unfounded. The applicant considers it appropriate to establish a two-thirds majority for the adoption of the Decision on the calling-off referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62826	Here's your colleague, Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62827	To be clear, this is the second part of that article that speaks about making a decision. So, one is an initial proposal that I thought was enough for one third of the councillors, and the final proposal to decide the half-dozen majority of them all. Such a solution was in the original law in 2007. It did not lead to the flood of the referendum in the local administration for four years as long as that provision was in force from 2009 to 2013, only two referendums were held on the basis of decisions of the representative bodies. All 2 in 4 years. Secondly, half the majority of all council members in the body of local self-government in the representative body is the largest majority we normally require under the Law on Local Self-Government to decide something. The majority decides on the statute, the election of the president of the representative body, on the budget. It is also logical to decide on the initiation of a referendum on the recall of the executive head. The two-thirds majority actually make such a decision extremely difficult, almost impossible mission because we know and I don't need to assure you that such an extremely qualified majority will be almost impossible and we're actually looking at this only through the prism of the whole approach of the Proposer to this law that any initiation of a change of resolution or recall of any mayor for anything simply made impossible by a mission. This 2/3 majority is right on that track, and that's how it is, and it really needs to be watched. Thank you, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62828	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Neither has this amendment received the required number of votes, so let's go to the 8th amendment of the same representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62829	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to delete Article 12 amending Article 53 of the applicable law, repealing the obligation to set up a single administrative department in municipalities and cities of up to 3,000 inhabitants. The bill allows municipalities and cities, regardless of the number of inhabitants, to establish a single management department or a larger number of administrative bodies, depending on the needs of each individual unit and the applicant considers that there is no need to limit their will regardless of the size of the municipality or city.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62830	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62831	Thank you. It is a provision that allows almost 25 years after the adoption of the Law on Local Self-Government that small municipalities of up to 3,000 inhabitants can have several administrative bodies. So, instead of a single management department, they can have more of them, which means automatically more headmasters and follow-up services present in each management department. And without any restrictions, fiscal or any other nature. There are probably some municipalities that have a smaller number of residents who have large fiscal incomes, and there may be some reasonable justification in these situations for organising their services through several administrative departments but not selectively for all around 250 small municipalities to enable more administrative bodies to be established, which will certainly lead to additional employment in local self-government. Often in local self-governments, small municipalities that do not have enough fiscal income where we have now made it possible by law, it is absolutely not a good solution and we do not see any logic after 25 years to deviate from one legal solution, in the smallest municipalities to open a non-selective door to additional employment even where there are no elementary conditions to employ a larger number of auditors, officials, secretaries and other administrative staff. And that's why we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62832	Please vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the number of votes needed, we're going to the 9th, it's a respected colleague, Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62833	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. The amendment is proposed in Article 54(1) of the current law which provides for the organisation of joint operations under the self-government section of two or more units of local self-government to add "especially for the purpose of preparing projects for withdrawal from EU funds". The amendment now reads in Article 14 which amends Article 54(1) of the Law behind the word "common", the point is replaced by a comma and the words "especially for the purpose of preparing projects for withdrawal of money from EU funds." In addition to the amendment of the provisions of Article 54(1) of the law of the final proposal of the law and the adopted amendment, paragraph 1 is now read as follows: "Two or more units of local self-government can carry out certain tasks from their own administration to organise joint projects specifically for withdrawal from EU funds".
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62834	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62835	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62836	Thank you. So like this, the amended amendment becomes an integral part of the law. We're going to Amendment number 10 of the Honored colleague of the Downworlder again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62837	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is proposed in Article 69(a) of the Law, which provides for the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor and their deputies, in the event that they do not propose a budget or withdraw the draft budget and no new proposal has been tabled, to delete the part relating to the withdrawal of the draft budget and not to propose a new proposal within a time limit allowing for the adoption of the budget. The amendment's proposal was unfounded because such a possibility existed in the law so far and before 2012 until the withdrawal of the budget was not stated in the law but was arranged by the Rules of Procedure of Representatives, in practice there were a number of cases in which the budget was withdrawn. Therefore, there is no obstacle to the same regulation. The budget deadlines clearly come from the Budget Act. The budget is made for the financial year and is valid for that year. The financial year is 12 months starting on 1 January and ending on 31 December of the calendar year. The budget shall be adopted by the representative body for the financial year corresponding to the calendar year before the start of the year to which it relates. The representative body shall adopt a budget by the end of the current year, within a period allowing for the implementation of the budget from 1 January of the year for which the budget is to be adopted. In advance, it is not necessary to prescribe how many times the budget could be withdrawn, it is important to allow it to be adopted by the end of the current year. The provision is by no means contrary to the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62838	It's an obvious colleague of the Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62839	Thank you, Mr. President. If this argument by the Secretary of State stood, then the question is why we have adopted the Budget Act, which provides for deadlines for both the Government and the representative bodies of local self-government and for the executive bodies of local self-government, which is required to submit the draft budget to the representative body by 15 November, so that the representative body has enough time to discuss it in some local self-governments and in two readings, so not suddenly but in the first reading and in the second reading and enough time to decide before the end of the year. In this key legislative article, it is possible, for example, if, after possible today's vote, the law comes into force tomorrow from Monday's representative body to be held in a situation where the head of the executive body withdraws the draft budget unless it is satisfied with the amendments accepted at the meeting of the representative body. All deadlines foreseen by the Budget Law fall into the water, then the one expressing dissatisfaction is required by law to forward the draft budget again. What's that? With the amendments adopted. But then why he withdrew the budget without the amendments, but then he'll be faced again with the same amendments. This article does not make any sense. I call it a ping-pong game between the representative body and the local leader who will end up talking in a way that would best be to adopt the budget on December 31st because then the representative body certainly brings the budget, and the mayor can't withdraw it. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62840	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're now going to the 11th Amendment of the same representative of the Downworlders. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62841	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is proposed in the amended Article 85a of the Law, which regulates the Institute of At the same time disbanding the representative and discharge of the Executive Body, the grounds for both disbanding the representative and the resolution of the Executive Body so that the application of that Institute occurs, under 1) if the representative body, on a proposal 1/3 of the members of the representative body, gives no confidence to the municipal head, mayor or mayor of the majority of all members of the representative body and under 2), if the mayor, or mayor, resigns by reason that he cannot cooperate with the representative body. Decisions proposed by the amendment are not acceptable on the grounds that 1) the representative body does not choose the executive body, so it cannot either show him any mistrust and under 2) the resignation is a personal act and, in accordance with the applicable legislation, constitutes the reason for the termination of the term of office of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor by force of the law. The reasons for the resignation are not to be explained, and the argument alone does not change the essence of the fact that the resignation is made, so no distinction can be made between the resignations lodged without the justification and the resignations submitted, on the grounds that it cannot cooperate with the representative body or the legal consequences of the resignation can not be different.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62842	It's obvious. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62843	Thank you, Mr. President. Compared to the motion that every time the amendments to the law propose something that does not exist elsewhere in European practice where the mayors are directly elected, I propose something that exists in European practice, a model of simultaneous resolution and mayor and representative body that is happening in a situation of deep mistrust between one body and another. What colleagues in the SDP were planning to solve in the same way, but when they adopt a budget, this is a model that exists for a quarter of a century in Italy. It thus resolves the conflict between the mayor and the council, which is resolved in a way that both go to elections and that the electoral body then decides who is responsible for the political crisis created in the local self-government. And that's the way to look at that model. And what is important to say is that this model that has existed for a very long time in Italian practice has not led to a large number of elections and early resolutions because this is happening in rare situations where there really are legitimate reasons, when something really doesn't really work in that local self-government and then lets citizens decide on that mayor and this representative body who is responsible. It is the sole purpose of this provision. And this can happen at any time during the term of office, there may be an extraordinary circumstance, some situation that makes further cooperation impossible or something that is related to the mayor some situation that makes him inappropriate for that duty. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62844	Let's approach a vote the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. So we're going to Amendment 12, and so is colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62845	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes that, in the added Article 86a) of the law governing the conditions for the appointment and resolution of the Government's commissioners, the appointment of an official as a rule and the proposal to add the condition that he is not a member of the political party. The promoter disagrees with the amendment because, as a rule, it leaves the possibility of appointing and someone who is not an official in a situation where he cannot be granted that rule for any reason. As regards membership in the political party, this cannot be an obstacle to the appointment of commissioners, as the Commissioner performs the duties of a representative or executive body which are political duties. Also, membership in the political party is no obstacle to officials, so there is no reason to be Commissioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62846	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62847	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to make it clear that our position in the MOST in the full reconstruction of the Law on Local Self-Government would go in the direction of eliminating the role and the existence of the Government's commissioners because he is a foreign body that enters local self-government and in situations where conflicts between the Commissioners and the representative body occur. But now we can only regulate the minimum function and we wanted to amend two things. First, when the commissioner has to come to be from the ranks or officials of the state administration or local self-government, so someone who is well aware of the regulations relating to local self-government. It would be best if it were from the state administration's office and others if it wasn't a person's rule but it could be an exception because unfortunately we know when we predict an exception, that this exception happens very often. As a rule, the debate with the interested public on this law should take 30 days, and it lasted 15 days. So much for the rule. Secondly, we ask the amendment not to be a member of the political side in order to also depolitise the role of Commissioners who is at that moment at the head of local self-government and we know from experience that there was a situation when these Commissioners, when they were Commissioners, were candidates for the executive body in a municipality or city. So they actually abused the Commissioner's office to compete in the election. That is why we propose this amendment so that they cannot be members of the political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62848	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the amendment battle 13, the House of Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62849	The amendment shall be accepted in part. The amendment proposes that in the added Article 86a) of the law governing the conditions for the appointment and resolution of the Government's Commissioners be omitted as a rule by the managing officer of the unit of local or regional (regional) self-government and proposes to add to the condition that he is not a member of the political party. The amendment shall be adopted in the act relating to officers of the local and regional (regional) self-government unit and shall now read as follows: Article 28 of which is added to Article 86a) of the Law in paragraph 2 of the words ‘local or regional (regional) self-government units or’ shall be deleted. The amendment shall not be accepted in the act relating to the addition of the conditions that it is not a member of the political party for the reasons set out in the reasons for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62851	Thank you very much. We're not accepting this explanation and we're asking for a vote on an amendment on the original form. The Commissioner shouldn't be a member of any party...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62852	Comrade Lenart, you can't do that. So either you accept this kind of amendment or you won't accept it, so we'll vote on the original then.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62853	We're looking for a vote in the original form.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62854	So you refuse to enter this section that the government accepts? All right, then let's vote. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62855	Thank you, Mr. President. Do not take this personally, however, I believe that there has been an injury to Article 202 here. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as well as in the case of Amendment 5. HSS's club because we have to resolve the doubt that has arisen. I believe that in a situation where the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment of applicants in action or in a modified form, despite the amendment's request for a vote, what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted regardless of the vote, it becomes an integral part of the bill's proposal and I believe that this is the result of Article 202(1). A Rules of Procedure which says that something has become an integral part of the bill if the amendment has been accepted by the Proposer. Therefore, the Proposer has an autonomous opportunity to influence its proposal for a law. Finally, the Parliament always votes on the bill and decides whether it will accept it with these amendments or not. That is why I believe that despite the proposals and the votes we have made under Amendment No 5 and following this amendment, what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted should be an integral part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62856	Thank you, comrade Grbin. However, I am a very clear author of the amendment says it does not accept the government's explanation and is returning to its original proposal. So, the government has shown here the willingness to accept, but whoever proposed the amendment says it will not, but it wants to stay the way he said in his original proposal. So this isn't about the government not wanting to accept it, but I'm the amendment promoter who doesn't want it to be accepted, so I'm interpreting it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62857	Thank you, Mr. President. Again for strictly formal reasons, in accordance with Article 236, I declare that I will seek the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to resolve this dilemma, because this is not the first time that such a situation occurs and I am afraid that we have quite an unequal practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62858	A colleague of Bacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62859	Thank you, Mr. President. I think, if in this way, as you have respected the vote, Article 2020 is respected because if the government had intended to make an amendment, then it would have gone with the amendment that we would have discussed. Here the government is making a concession of the motion that he does not accept and in this way, when he does not accept such a concession from the government, we have the right to vote then... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62860	Yeah, I mean, we're going to have to, I'm going to stick to this interpretation that I've given. You have the right and I think it is also good to show about it and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go, fellow Downhill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62861	Allow me, since I was in the same position, because one of my amendments was the same. In fact, if the government had said that it would conditionally support, in part, that the proposal, the Council on a referendum on the mayor's impeachment, would not have been, would have asked 1/3 of all council members, but a half majority of all. If I had said at that point, if I had accepted it, then it would have been an amendment to the government that I accepted and that would have become an integral part of the Law. So, if I had said, that what would mean by the proposal sent by the applicant, which originally said on the pay phone, that he was inclined to accept, therefore, that it would be a congestive majority. And that I can't change, my amendment. So he put it out here for the pay phone. To propose, but to propose it on behalf of the proposer, not that I suggest it instead. So, he's right, fellow coat of arms when he warns that it's some kind of conditional amendment, which doesn't know if it's the government that didn't come... But it's some kind of conditional amendment that we should accept. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62862	Come on, now we've opened the debate, but this is the topic for the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure, the political system, more colleagues, here's Bauk, and then we'll be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62863	Mr. President, so it's not the first time that the government has partially accepted the amendment and that the one who submitted the amendment says it disagrees, and that we are voting on this other part, which the government has not accepted, was also a practice. So I think the Committee on the Constitution is discussing it, based on Mr. Grbin's demands and moving on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62864	Comrade Bauk, if it were like you said, then the dilemma would be. However, in both cases, explicit, the amendment promoter says, I do not want this part to be adopted and accepted by the government, but rather insists on its amendment and we vote on it. I mean, it was very clear. So let's vote now on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Let's go to the last amendment, the 14th Honored Fellow Sub-Subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62865	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to amend the provision of derogations to the law, so that, instead of the first day, the law enters into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the National Journal, and proposes to postpone the entry into force of certain provisions of the law, until the decision to call, inland, general and regular local elections enters into force. The proposed solution has not been established, as it is in the interest of all units of local and regional self-government, that the law enters into force as soon as possible, so that the amended solutions can be applied during December 2017. As regards the postponement of certain provisions of the law, it is also unfounded because the issues in question do not apply to the amendment of the electoral rules, nor to the electoral system, and there is no obstacle, to apply during the current term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62866	- It's obvious, comrade Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62867	Thank you. This is, therefore, the end of the story, the entry into force of the law. And you all know that the Constitution requires, in particular, reasonable reasons, for some law to come into force not 8 days after publication in the People's Newspaper, but the day after that. So he asks for particularly justified reasons, which the Proposer, above all, did not state in the law at all. Worse still, the promoter amended the legislative provision by amending the first and second reading, to do exactly what the proposer says, in order to allow the law to enter into force as soon as possible in December, in order to literally change the rules of the game in the middle of the budget process. On several occasions, the Law on Local Self-Government has been amended. It was more often in a way that key amendments to the law did not take effect during the term of office of representative bodies and executive bodies. When it happened, in the prime minister's office. I remind you of a law that was called "Lex Komadina" in 2011 I know that it ended up in the Constitutional Court, I regret that the Constitutional Court never discussed it, because the law came into force, immediately and in fact changed the rules of the game, about the election and replacement of the mayor. For this reason, I expect that this provision will be found very soon at the Constitutional Court hearing. I can only say, that a particularly justifiable reason, can't be saving, some local mayor, mayor or mayor, that after the budget process, he wouldn't be resolved and that there would be no elections on local self-government. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-29-0.u62868	Let us also vote on amendment number 14. The government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. And now we're going to vote, we're going to starve now, I'm stressing that it's in accordance with Art. 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, for the adoption of this law, requires a half majority, all MPs, so 76 votes. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 32 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. Honorable MPs, respected MPs, we continue our work. In accordance with yesterday's deal, I will now read a statement, which I passed on today, in the morning of all the club representatives. Dear MPs and MPs were held on Wednesday (November 29th) a session, extended Croatian Parliament presidency on the occasion of the International Criminal Tribunal's appeal for the former Yugoslavia, confirming sentences for Jadranka Prlic, Bruno Stojic, Slobodan Prajk, Milivo Petkovic, Valentina Ćorić and Berisha Pusic. After yesterday's debate, representatives' clubs agreed in their assessment that the appeal ruling does not respect the historical truth, facts and evidence, and as such unfair and unacceptable. Just by a tragic act of taking a life, General Free Praljak symbolically pointed to all the injustices of the appeal verdict. Allow me to express my sincere condolences to his family on behalf of the Croatian Parliament and on behalf of the Croatian Parliament. The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia's appeal ruling is not based on the facts and role Croatia played towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, in recognising its independence, defending its sovereignty and territorial integrity, and thus its survival, and the humanitarian aid it has provided to refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this context, the Croatian Parliament expresses its condolences to the families of victims of all crimes committed in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Representative clubs agreed that at this time it is necessary to act, taking into account the interests of the Republic of Croatia, including supporting the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose position must remain constitutional and equal with the other 2 peoples in any further reflection on the state order of Bosnia and Herzegovina. With this in mind, the Croatian Parliament will soon hold a debate at the plenary session on the relations of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special emphasis on the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The representatives' clubs agreed that even after a written appeal of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the Croatian Parliament would take a stand on the joint declaration. The Croatian Parliament also expects the government to consider all available legal and political mechanisms to challenge allegations from the appeal ruling. Under the new circumstances, the Clubs of Representatives agreed that there is a need to maintain the understanding, unity and responsibility of political parties, taking care of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, Clubs of Representatives invite MPs and MPs to follow these principles in their continued political action in the Croatian Parliament. I invite you now to go together to honor all the victims of the victims, the dead and the missing Croatian defenders, as well as all the victims of the war conflicts in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose loss has left many families and their neighbors in pain and suffering. All victims must remain in our collective consciousness forever, and yesterday's death of General Praljko remains the last act of tragic warfare. All of them are rested forever, and to us enough prudence, to turn to the future and never to repeat this again. A moment of silence, and they shall have everlasting glory.
