ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38640	Thank you, Your Honor. Please pause on behalf of the Live Wall Club and the SNAGA 10 minutes after which I would like to talk about the necessity of adopting two laws that I have sent to clubs for consideration and for which I will seek support next week.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38641	You got it. The second in line is distinguished colleague Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38642	On behalf of the club of independent representatives and HSU, we are looking for a 10-minute break related to the problem of the sick children at Klaic's hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38643	All right. Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38644	Thank you, Mr. President. The MOST representative club would also ask for a break in terms of children who are ill in Klaic's treatment and treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38645	All right. Are there any more interested in taking a break? If not, the break is until 9:00 and 45 minutes. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] First on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, counterpart Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38647	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, after talking here for months about the illegal business of banks, it is finally time that I have to refer to the procedure of amending the two laws, which I consider necessary, for which I have been fighting for a long time and I expect your support in this. So according to this I first forwarded to the Clubs of Representatives, and the amendments to the review, after which, during the next and that week, the last before the break, I will request your support, your signatures to support me in sending these proposals to the procedure in the Croatian Parliament. It is about amendments to the Consumer Credit Act and amendments to the Consumer Protection Act. In the Consumer Credit Act, it is necessary to finally define the methodology on which banks must, in all credits where they have not agreed on the initial fixed part of the interest rate, define, coordinate and contract with the debtor. In what way? The way is very simple. If we stick to the old Roman rule... Which means if something's wrong from the beginning over time, it won't get better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, since we know that at the beginning of the contractual relationship, banks have negotiated an illegal way of changing interest rates in almost all the loans agreed before 2013, then it is necessary for those interest rates, in still living loans, to be settled correctly, to return to the beginning of the contractual relationship. In what way? In such a way as to subtract from each initially agreed interest rate, the value of the variable parameter at the beginning of the contractual relationship and thus the amount obtained would then be the fixed part of the interest rate. Therefore, such a certain size would be a fixed part of the interest rate and would apply as of 1 January 2014, because that was the day when banks had to comply with the law but did not comply, but on their own initiative, they unilaterally defined the fixed part of the interest rate. Someone will say retroactiveness is not allowed. Retroactivity is permitted if justified and in this case it is so-called. Quadiretroactivity, as explained by the Constitutional Court, when deciding on the conversion of CHF credit. If it acts by law on legal matters that are not yet completed, then it is not about retroactivity, it is about so-called “retroactivity”. Quadiretroactiveness, as confirmed by the EU Court of Justice, which has confirmed that legal matters are under way, thus such retroactivity is permitted. By the second law, by amending the Consumer Protection Act, I want to, in fact, we all want all of us dealing with this problem to finally resolve the way in which we return the amounts in loans where interest rates are variable, agreed in an illegal manner. We have a legitimate collective court ruling, which clearly and unequivocally found that 7 banks, in an illegal and unfair manner, agreed on a variable interest rate and that, therefore, in those 7 banks, such contractual provisions are unfair, worthless, or not valid. In line with this, 3,000 debtors have so far been about to file charges, and the possibility that there are over 100,000 debtors, according to some estimates, even 200 thousand debtors, but unfortunately because of their lack of awareness and fear of justice, because of the fear of length of the trial, of costs, they do not go into court proceedings both in my opinion and in the opinion of all those who deal with this issue, it is the duty of the State to, on the basis of a valid collective judgment, prepare and pass a law setting out how to repay the amounts of interest paid to all damaged debtors. That is something Hungary has already done, banks have been rebelling a little, however, the EU Court has sided with Hungary and confirmed that Hungarians have had the right to do so, as banks have been illegally changing interest rates. Therefore, I expect support from you, and besides, I appeal to the agenda as soon as possible and to that Law on Foreign Cooperatives. Here's what needs today to be a woman's mutilation, precisely because of a loan contract like this, I don't know if she'll be stopped, stopped, but if we pass such a law, there won't be any more deals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38648	Thank you. The second debate was held by visiting counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric on behalf of the Independent Representatives and HSU Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38649	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We felt at the club of independent HSU representatives that it was high time to talk about the problem of seven children in Klaic's hospital and everything that's been going on these few days, actually more than a week around the problem. I think that all of us here who are parents absolutely cannot imagine the situation in which the parents of these children who are now waiting for seven, eight days to make some decision about the medications that need to be obtained that give these children a certain chance to be cured on which the commission decides which, with all the respects of the profession and all together, will, of course, decide what they decide. But the uncertainty that has been going on for several days now is that children need medication immediately and the question of who will then have responsibility, whether this commission, whether the minister, whether the Prime Minister will have responsibility if it is missing for these very few days or perhaps weeks until the commission decides that the medicines are being administered, and these children will no longer be able to be treated for a time reason. What we unfortunately have as a situation that is often repeated, means this is certainly not the first case, and unfortunately perhaps not the last case that we have this kind of situation because we don't have a system that would react to this situation, so only when it happens when we get media attention then we set up commissions and we're actually wasting time. Since the system is not available, the ministers and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister are aware, we believe that the club needed to make a decision to secure the funds, whether from the budget reserve or from some spare parts of the budget that exist in the Health Insurance Office or in some other way, and then to address these systemic issues later, and to address it once and for all how it reacts and how fast it should react to these situations. Unfortunately, this is how chaos occurs, of course we are all particularly sensitive when it comes to children and I absolutely think that we can all send a message here to Mr. Minister, and you can fix this problem right now, secure the money because I guess we also assume at the club that doctors in Klaic had the means to take medicines to ensure these medicines and go to treatment. However, we cannot, of course, put them in a position to spend their overall budget on medicines needed to treat these children. So in this situation you need to take responsibility, you need to have determination. No one will blame the minister or prime minister for resolving the case in a way that the funds are immediately secured. I think we're in such a situation that people who look at the daily news base are talking about tax evasion of 18 million kunas, where it's said that tens of millions of kunas are secured for election campaigns by donations, and we don't have 10.5 million kunas to secure money for the treatment of children. We must not then mention either in this assembly, nor in the Government a topic such as demographic restoration, belief in youth, believing in young families, actually believing in Croatia's future. I don't want to be pathetic, but I really do. I think we should all be unique in sending a message, choose to provide the prime minister with money or the Health Insurance Office, and solve the problem of lack of money and budget items later in some future rebalancing of your budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38650	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of counterparts Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38651	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. These days, in numerous media, we have had the opportunity to read, hear about the struggle for life that leads seven of our small citizens at the Children's Diseases Clinic in Klaicovo, Zagreb. The bad disease that hit them is malignant, rare and aggressive, and the treatment methods we've had so far had little chance of success. Recently, however, a medicine has appeared that increases the prospect of successful treatment and has been approved by the European Medicines Agency. However, the price of this medicine is high and greatly outweighs individual, family, and even individual health care facilities. For the sake of the public, we should be objective and say that the medicine is so expensive that its price is expressed in millions of kunas, and its application does not provide any guarantees for successful treatment. It increases the chances and gives hope to the sick children and their families and thus finally comes to the main issues which these days are trying to resolve our Ministry of Health and HZZO. In fact, these countries are trying to determine the objective market price of hope these days. To this end, they even set up a professional commission, and the health minister, Dr Milan Kujundzic, personally included himself in solving the problem by ordering from Dubrovnik that he invites all Croatians to dialogue, a complete solution to the Croatian health problem, and that we must all participate in this. This way I would like to remind Minister Kujundzic that all Croatian citizens are involved in financing the Croatian health system according to their capabilities. I also want to remind him that this system rests on the principle of solidarity which is one of the fundamental principles that connects this small community called Croatia. This small Croatia has proved countless times by helping those who have been hit by every kind of disaster and disaster. Thus, this small but famous Croatian people reiterated their will not to let anyone among us remain unprotected and to help their fellow citizens and their neighbouring countries. Therefore, Mr. Minister, from this place, I would like to facilitate your decision and to say that we as a people are ready to help the children of Klaic's hospital without asking for that price. We want those children and all the other children to have the same opportunity to live. If our wishes are considered populism, then we will gladly accept that you call us that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38652	Thank you. And it is the last club of HDZ MPs, distinguished colleague Željka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38653	I would like to thank the president, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are in the debates so far, we can all agree on one. We can agree that our little people want a quick recovery and that we want them to get what they really belong to. What the vast majority of you don't know is, it's a malignant tumor, a neuroblastoma that usually affects children up to 5 years of age. Unfortunately, we are aware that some of the malignant tumors will not be detected very early and that we are part of these early - stage tumors can be fully cured. Unfortunately, part of the children will only be diagnosed at a later stage. We are aware that they will pass through everything that passes and adult patients are suffering from malignancies and chemotherapy and surgery and radiotherapy. But in the vast majority of cases, we know that it will not help them. We know that in those neuroblastomas that have metastasized, that is, that only ten percent of these children will survive. And that's why today I'm here for this speaker to point to what's important to us and it's important to our children. You know very well that an expert commission has been established. The expert commission consists of a team of people, oncologists who are expert in certain areas of malignancies and in this case are insane tumours. The public is aware that it is now seven or nine children who are suffering from this malignant disease. We also know that a drug that is controversial and costs a price can help some and unfortunately not. We also know that a month ago the European Medicines Agency approved this medicine and we are all wondering why our little patients can't use it. You know very well that our hospitals have certain restrictions and you also know that the medicine will not help everyone, and that is why this expert commission exists. If you look at it and look at all the side effects you'll know and you'll find that unfortunately, it's not as safe as we all think it is. I'm sure not only the Ministry, the HZZO and the expert commission, but all of us together will allow our children to be really well treated. But let's let the profession, let's let those who really do it decide where we can achieve the best effect. Let's not let just because of the pressure of the public put someone's life at risk. Let these little fighters of ours be treated in quality and their doctors choose the best treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38654	Here's what we've exhausted speech based on a request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38677	Thank you. Here you go, pal Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38678	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, we are looking for a break of ten minutes to remind the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public of the Croatian Parliament's decision to declare the date of June 20th on the Day of Remembrance of Stjepan Radic and the June sacrifice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38679	Thank you. He's a colleague of Pernar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38680	I'm looking for a graduation break or a prom exam problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38681	Thank you. Is there anyone else? If he doesn't, I'll set a break by 14.20. It's 14, 10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.20 HOURS]] First colleague Davor Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38683	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break on behalf of the HNS Club to remind you and the Croatian public that at its 12th session in June 2015, the Croatian Parliament made the decision to make June 20th the Day of Remembrance of Stjepan Radic and the June victims. Namely, Stjepan Radić, Paval Radić, Đuro Basariček, Ivan Granda and Ivan Pernar were Croatian representatives of HSS killed and wounded in the Belgrade Assembly on 20 June 1928. The basis of that decision was agreed and usual that on that day if the Croatian Parliament met, and today it was set to start with a minute of silence for Stjepan Radic and the June victims. Thank you to the parliamentary delegation at the head of my colleague, Boris, for putting flowers on their graves with us, but I think that sacrifice deserves and I ask you to stand up and honor Stjepan Radic and the June victims with a moment of silence. - A minute of silence. - May their glory be eternal and thank them! My colleagues and colleagues, I say today this crime took place in the Belgrade Assembly when Punisa Racic, a member of the Serbian Radical Party, shot members of the HSS. The event was a turning point in the Croatian history of the assassination of Stjepan Radic was an assassination of the entire Croatian people. The most brutal and most barbaric crime in Croatian history. We must never forget that. The ideology he left behind is being cherished today. It is based on the principles of freedom, social rights and democracy that only educated citizens can implement. All Croatian political parties' programmes are based on Radic's ideology. We must never give up those principles. Stjepan Radic advocated the respect and rights of the Croatian people. We would welcome you today, as well as his famous message spoken in the Croatian Parliament in 1918, “Don’t fall like geese in the fog” that he propheticly predicted in what political circumstances the Croatian people would then find themselves in. This one, like many others, is timeless. Radic should be one of the main role models in history in building a democratic society and values for all of us, not just the HSS. Instead, we deal with nationalisms, we argue over Tito and Pavelic, we share in partisans and Ustashas in the 21st century. The strong economy and education of citizens are the foundations of Radic's paradigm. That goes for today. Croatian survival depends exclusively on ourselves, on economic development which must be based on the best quality education of Croatian youth. Sam Radic said, "The more schools that miss slaves, the more knowledge, the more estates." Let's focus on building a healthier future, not going back in time. Let's be Radic's followers, no one should or can expect someone else to do something else, change it. Let's go each and every one of us because only one corner of the universe that we can certainly make better is ourselves. Let's be better for Radic, for a safer future and for a fairer Croatia. We need further building democracy, as Radic said, to make it clear that the survival of small peoples such as ourselves, depends on their democracy, on their life force conditioned by the intensity of their democratic spirit and that the prospects of the future depend on that degree. I'm afraid we're on our way, we don't know where, we don't know where we're going, we don't know where this government is going to lead us. This is not even the power elected by the people, for power is today an opposition. They chose themselves. We didn't want to be involved in the voter scam, and we won't be involved. I will end up as Stjepan Radic finished his famous speech: “The most terrible thing is that the greatest sin and the greatest political error put my own people before the facts, i.e. lead politics by economic, by its will, without the people and against the people. If you do not believe this God gave you all to live for so long, it will not be long before you see how the Croatian people in their Republican and human consciousness will blow you away just at the moment you think that the people have calmed down and you have riden him well." Thank you very much, faith in God and peasant style. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38684	Thank you. A fellow Pernar in the name of the Living Wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38685	Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is one category of people in Croatia who are essentially marginalized and who are not asked for opinion. It's about seniors. And if you go to Google and write graduates bitterly you'll see that there are problems with the state's graduation that haven't been since this year. So literally every year there's excesses, every year there's a problem with the state's graduation. These problems before her introduction were gone, I dare say that even the students were more relaxed and now, thanks to that national prom, they were actually very, very stressful moments of life. That stress takes its own today and then what happens? They get ready, they're bifling in mind, let's say from the Croatian language material and it should be tested and suddenly they say the day before they're not going to be tested, they'll be delayed. And now what's going on? What happens is that a lot of the material is nerdy, they say, they're imaginary, or it's literally about learning data that we're going to learn tomorrow, or they're going to forget about tomorrow. For this reason, they don't care whether they take the exam today or in 2 weeks, because if they're preparing for today, they'll forget in 2 weeks. And I just wanted to ask a question, what's the point of learning material in my mind that's going to be forgotten in a month. So they won't remember it if someone asks them. And our education system unfortunately stimulates, or suggests that the way to succeed in school is to learn about it, but from that learning in mind and after practicing that knowledge there is nothing. It's your parrot's knowledge. The parrots except I can repeat, I've looked at Youtube, you've got the parrot Koran reading, but he doesn't understand. So there's no big deal about it. And for this reason, I suggest that in order to avoid a future situation where students are terrorized by this material by state institutions that do so unprofessionally year after year. Because if it were one year, one object would be understood but it's literally year after year, over and over again, new old problems. Well, I suggest that the state's prom be abolished, that the prom be returned as it was up until its introduction and that this great burden and pressure from the student be lifted and moved away because their lives will be easier and they'll have less stress and they won't lose anything at all. Here, thank you, cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u38686	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40849	And now we move on to the agenda, that's: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 68; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution, Article 171. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the motion for an act by dispatching the Parliament. Contributions to this act are not multiplied but are located on the Croatian Assembly website. This Law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. I would now like to ask the representative, or the proposing representative, to give us an additional explanation. State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family and Youth and Social Policy Margareta Majeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40850	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The final proposal for a law on gender equality is in line with the requirements of the European Commission in relation to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the implementation of the equal principles of opportunity and equal treatment towards men and women in matters of employment and work. At the end of 2013, an EU pilot was launched in relation to the directive in question and the European Commission found that there are certain concerns about protection against victimisation that need to be addressed. Following the final proposal referred to in Article 2(2) of the Law. The Law on Gender Equality is in line with Article 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The anti-discrimination law to ensure comprehensive protection against victimisation would further extend the circle of persons entering the protection of non-discrimination guarantees and in order to strengthen the legal protection of victims, which was also the aim of the European Commission's recommendation. There is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget for the implementation of this law. And in the first reading of the debate here in the Croatian Parliament are also expressed opinions and remarks regarding the Law on Gender Equality but they are not covered by these amendments and additions to the law. They refer to the need to access the creation of a full legal arrangement based on a detailed analysis of the situation in the area which the Gender Equality Act regulates, i.e. to review the possibility of a better normative solution which would contribute to a higher degree of protection of gender-based discrimination. Looking at the scope of the remarks raised in the debate in the first reading, and also considering that it is necessary to ensure compliance with existing EU documents, i.e. adapting the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality to the requirements of the directive, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality, which we have here today, was drawn up here at the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40851	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Excuse me, was it a replica? On behalf of the Committee, which is the chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality. Here you go. I'm just asking you to hold on, uh, just raise your hand, 'cause you've lifted my replica board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40852	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. In his session, the Committee on Gender Equality therefore discussed it as the parent body of this law. The amendments to the law itself are not comprehensive, only 4 articles are amended, one article of course speaks about the entry into force, the other adds an article under Articles 1 and 1a) which speaks of directives. Several Directives from Europe that the law is harmonised with, then there is an extension of another article. The proposed law will contribute to the protection of all those who have reported discrimination, attended discrimination, or refused an order for discriminatory action, or who have in any way testified in the anti-discrimination proceedings or otherwise participated in any gender-based discrimination proceedings. Also, this normative solution will help protect the position of all those who in good faith have warned the public of a case of discrimination. It is also pointed out that it will soon be necessary to re-edit this law, because it is likely that there will be a change in the electoral system and, with the change of the electoral system, it will be necessary to re-correct the law with much greater and more radical changes. You've seen in the article that was delivered to you on the bench, there's a whole series of remarks, additions, a desire to develop and improve this law, most of them being rejected. And I'd like to read some interesting statistics. The share of women among the total number of candidates in these last elections is 41.67%, a significant improvement compared to previous local elections 4 years ago, 2013 when it was only 28.24. So from 28 to 41 we came, which would certainly call great progress. At the level of the entire Republic of Croatia, on all lists, for all levels of local, regional authorities of 2666, there were so many lists, 374 and 14% of them do not meet the minority gender quota, most unfortunately female sex. Of the 576 seats of mayors, mayors and mayors, only 48% of the 576 were won by a woman. So although the share of women in executive functions is still low, only 8%, it is still significantly higher than in the last elections. Also mentioned is the use of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe’s recommendation to conduct a pair of models, i.e. a "zip system" in which every other person on the candidate list is of the same sex, i.e. this would be the first place for a female, second male, third female or vice versa, so it is until the list is completed. With 7 votes for, 0 against, 1 abstentioned Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament has proposed that this law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40853	Thank you, too. We can't give a replica to the show, it's the board's report, that's right. Do any of the other people on the board want to take a word for it? No one. Then he opens up the debate. The first came from a distinguished colleague, Ines Strenja-Linić, on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40854	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed promoters and fellow MPs. The EU therefore signed on 13 June 2017. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence means known as the Istanbul Convention. So the EU signed that, too. In its statement, the Council of Europe pointed to the importance that the EU Member States attach to a convention that sets standards in the fight against various forms of violence against women, and so far 14 EU members have ratified this Convention, so Austria and Belgium and Denmark and Spain, Finland, France, Italy, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia and Sweden, all countries with whom we wish to compare. And it was signed by nine more EU countries. The Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy has formed a working group for ratification that we have been waiting for since 2013, so the crime is on both SDP and on us now, which we are actually waiting for now and I hope we will welcome that ratification because it is a prerequisite for a real fight against violence against women. So at the MOST Club, we will support the adoption of a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality, which are essentially only normo-technical and is governed by the law in order to comply with the provision relating to protection against victimisation, with the European Parliament and Council Directive of 05 July 2006. So it is to clarify once again on the directive that once again on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment towards men and women in matters of employment and work. So in our legislation, in two different ways, the same question was resolved. Different standards of protection against victimisation have been observed in the Law on Gender Equality, as well as in Article 7. The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. However, in the public debate, but also in the debate during the first reading, many topics related to this law have been opened that this area is still insufficiently defined, and that it requires a more comprehensive discussion and amendment of this law. But the ministry all in turn refused to explain that the proposed amendments were not the subject of the draft bill, and we had a unique opportunity to finally settle this area, even if it took a little longer. So in women as a social group to say something, it has always been possible to establish a difference between the share in the population and among employees and participation in public life, particularly politics. This fact is evident even today at the beginning of the 21st century. So, despite our clear awareness at global level, we are far from right equality, or representation. There are exceptions. Look what happened in France. So, McCron managed to position women on lists without putting them on those lists where they had a strong opponent putting them in enough places to enter and we have a huge number of women who have gone far beyond three times as many women as they were in the previous assembly of the French Parliament. So you can if you want to. And when women, even in a small number, find themselves in the sphere of public action, they mostly stay in typical women's sectors, and it hasn't really changed in decades. But when they find themselves in typical male activities, they remain mostly in lower hierarchical positions relatively lower pay and according to that and social status, and it is also in extreme male activity, which is politics. And here practice has shown that they focus primarily on women's subjects, education, social activities, social care, etc. So, the glass ceiling exists and don't think we're not aware of it. Furthermore, although there are opinions that the social equality of women and men in Croatia has been achieved, I believe that this is seen primarily in the area of improving the programme-normal and institutional assumptions to address the issue of unfair status of women in society. Therefore, Croatia is also a signator of the UN Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. The Law on Gender Equality has been passed a long time ago. The law on the protection of domestic violence, established by several NGOs for women's rights, the Office for Gender Equality, exists as the prosecutor's institute for gender equality. But the question is, are we really even? I'd like to point out here that women are not the only socially marginalized group. Except because of sex, individuals experience unfair treatment and because of their sexual orientation, birthplace, whether they are from the village. We are told that we provinces are all not born in Zagreb, ethnicity, material status, disability, their age, education and the like. And that's why this is where we have to talk about it. But today we're talking about gender equality. Also, gender equality does not affect all citizens of the Republic of Croatia equally, nor is it equally widespread in Croatia. And therefore special attention should be paid to women in areas with more traditional attitudes and less interest in addressing women's equality problems in society, i.e. pay particular attention to young people because it is up to them to achieve gender equality in our future. Therefore, women are still a sub-represented sex in the policy area whether it is about including in the lists of candidates, public representation of party programmes or final election results. However, representation on the electoral lists is no guarantee of equal women's participation both in politics and in the pre-election campaign process, which provides the basic basis for the candidate's election in office. The principle of equality with regard to the final representation of selected candidates who, after the election, will participate in local, regional or national levels cannot be properly met if the candidate lists are drawn up so that they are predominantly positioned in the lower parts of the list or at the very beginnings. Therefore, the purpose of all these legal provisions is not merely the fulfillment of the numerical form but the contribution of real gender equality, i.e. to enabling women equal participation in public life and the overcoming of the existing traditionally inherited socially conditioned aspects of inequality, which are why women are still clearly under-represented in the field of political participation, and we see this here in the composition of our Parliament. As for the situation in our country, it has been decorated for a long time this decade, all these decades of female participation in political life at all levels, and the primary responsibility for increasing women's participation is on political parties. Therefore, the desire and possibility for women to become more involved in the country's political life depends on a large number of factors primarily on the educational, professional and social status of the country, the development of democratic institutions in the country, the influence of women's organisations, the assessment of opportunities to support the election campaign, etc. Therefore, equal participation, the enjoyment of the same status and equal rights for the realisation of the potential of women and men is necessary to contribute to the political, social and cultural development of society and are one of the basic predispositionses of successful and every modern democratic society. And a little statistics. Already said counterpart Sincic, so the proportion of women in previous local elections was 41, so the number of candidates was 41.67% which was a significant improvement compared to 2013 when there were 28.24% of women in the local elections. So of 47601 41% were women, which is a satisfactory sort of representation. But there was no respect for the sex quota individually. So of the 2666 candidate lists even 14, only 14% did not satisfy the women's quota, so 374 were wrong about Article 12. A law on gender equality that says that a sense of gender imbalance exists if the representation of one sex in the bodies of political and public decision is lower than 40%. And pursuant to Article 15 of the same law, when setting out and proposing a list of candidates for the selection of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, for the selection of members of representative bodies and units of local and regional, regional, self-government, as well as for the selection of members in the European Parliament, political parties and other authorised proposings, they are obliged to respect the principle of gender equality and to take into account the balanced representation of women and men on the electoral lists in accordance with Article 12 of this Act. So 374 lists have sinned on this law and I hope that they will be punished accordingly. The proportion of these 14% lists, without quota in these elections, is something better than the previous elections, so 2015 did not respect 33 of the 166 lists, and 2016. 54 out of 177 lists, 31% didn't even respect 2016. Women are significantly sub-represented as candidates, only 15 in the first place, 15% in the first place as a candidate for municipal councils, city councils and county councils. To compare, the representation of women among candidates for municipal, city and county leaders, with representation among their deputies, is somewhat higher. In fact, as candidates, women are represented by 15%, while almost twice as many as 29% are represented as candidates, twice as many as carriers. Why do you need more women and respect for women's quotas on candidate lists? And let me finish. Does it matter on the lists of local elections? Absolutely, because it is the only way women can have a more significant impact on the formation and adoption of the trade budget, in local and regional self-government units. It means a budget that will also define housing and priority in the employment of women victims of domestic violence and create preconditions to help make women more involved in the labour market and their greater involvement in public and political life. And this includes the work of kindergartens in two shifts, the introduction of Saturdays, the opening of additional facilities for the education and education of preschool children, as well as the extended stay of children in primary school institutions. So it's all that local birth budget. All this would significantly facilitate the coordination of both family and professional life, women and their active participation in the social and political life of each community. The subject of gender equality is often talked about, but political and civic awareness of this topic seems to be changing very slowly, despite legal solutions aimed at improving the number of women involved in decision-making processes at local, regional, national level, I have already said, in the last 20 years, political participation of women in the Republic of Croatia has stagnated with a tendency to worsen. We see that from the number of MPs in this House, which each term falls. Women's quotas are not only there to meet the legal standard, women on lists are part of the mechanism, positive discrimination, which is primarily aimed at changing citizens' awareness of equality between men and women. Quotas are a temporary mechanism and when citizens' awareness changes, when both gender representation is equal, there will be no need for quotas or other forms of positive discrimination. Political parties must therefore take responsibility and begin to encourage their members to participate more actively in high policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40855	Thank you. The exposure caused four replicas. First came from a colleague named Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40856	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Minister with her co-worker, my colleague, so here's the replica that prompted me by your statement that the government had rejected everything in order to make a statement. It can be agreed with you that the position of women in our society, especially in relation to the labour market, above all protection against violence and greater involvement of women in decision-making, can only be carried out by strategic documents and by respecting these strategic documents, as set out in the Government's 2016-2020 programme, explicitly and stated. However, what you cannot agree with, the Minister or the Government did not refuse to comment, but refused to consider them at all because, as explained above, they did not include the issues covered by this bill. And you see here I see the problem, not just in relation to the government towards the Croatian Parliament, according to the laws of the Croatian Parliament. But generally problems in our society, which is very difficult to change and the reforms we are talking about are very difficult to implement. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, a colleague, earned the last warning when she spoke here, because she even replicated on behalf of the club, I think, a colleague of Sincic or someone related to his extended statement on the subject. And then it actually turned out that whatever the MPs say here, if in this case the ministry said, this is not a question of these changes, then it's... I'm no longer surprised why this went to another reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe because it was the defense attorney's remark, but it seems to me that we may be wasting time here today, not in that ugly sense, but we're wasting our time because we should have passed this law by emergency procedure, because everything we've been saying, everything we've been saying, has been rejected because it's not the subject of these changes, not because the government has rejected them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40857	Replication response. Just please, somehow you haven't been answering at all lately. There are rules, so it is necessary, however, if you want to respond to the replica we signal.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40858	Well, I'd just like to say so, and that's what I'm saying. The laws have been passed, we have a lawyer, we have an office for gender equality, the laws have been passed. The only problem in this country is that the laws don't apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40859	Okay, second replica, esteemed colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40860	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of Strenja-Linić, you have begun your presentation with the Istanbul Convention, which was signed by the Republic of Croatia, but has not been ratified, we believe it will soon happen. Then you said that many issues related to this law have been opened and that this issue of the future will need far better resolved, alluding to this final draft of the law on gender equality that is actually being changed because of the 2006 EU directive and the Member States that were obliged to introduce it into their national legislation, and regarding the victimisation of standards of protection against victimisation, especially women, because they are regulated through two laws, the Law on Gender Equality, which is actually lex specialis and the Law on Discussing Discrimination of Discrimination, which is lex generalis. What I thought you would also say is that through the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, this should be emphasized through Article 3. which says “disturbing is every unwanted behavior caused by some of the basics of Article 1 of this Law, which is intended or truly a violation of the dignity of a person, which causes fear and hostile, humiliating or offensive environment. ” Under this law on the prevention of discrimination and Article 3 each of us can be sued, and also under this law, you who are accused must prove that it is not discrimination. Furthermore, you mentioned local elections and the president of this Committee for Gender Equality. In his presentation on behalf of the board he also said that compared to 2013, where the proportion of women on the lists was 28% it happened in 2017 41% and that of the 2066 lists that were... 14%, time's up 14% higher than 2013. [[Intruder President: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40861	Thank you. There's no answer. Third replica, distinguished counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40862	Thank you. I applied for the replica of my colleague Strenja-Linić, among other things, about the position of women in Croatian society where we should say that of course we need laws and that through the laws we need to regulate everything necessary to ensure maximum gender equality. However, in vain, we have all the laws if from the earliest age of kindergarten through primary and secondary school to the university in all stages of the educational process in Croatia we do not adopt the view that women and men are equal in Croatian society. I report that while fighting for gender equality, I have spent a lot of energy on introducing health education into schools, civic education that I consider crucial that gender equality is indeed implemented and lived in Croatia, not only to be declared and sometimes mentioned in the Croatian Assembly when it comes to changing the Law on Gender Equality. Therefore, if children in the family and in schools do not adopt the knowledge and attitudes that men and women are equal, we have no law. After all, you have a great example from our assembly, we recently made a decision here on members of the National Council for Higher Education, Science and Technological Development, although 50% of the college graduates are women, 50% of the scientists are women, 50% of them are women, but no woman has been elected to the National Council for Higher Education, Science and Technological Development. Therefore, it is crucial that gender equality really be something that we live in Croatia, not just a declarative and debate during the amendments to the Law on Gender Equality, or when we analyse lists for elections at all levels in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40863	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. The next replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40864	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Strenja-Linić. So about your percentage exposure above 41% of women's representation on the list for local elections. Yes, we have made this framework but something in practice and what is not enough just to have that framework and decisions on the percentage of gender on the list. In fact, we now come to a situation where women are on lists only because they are women and to meet that standard, which is absolutely unacceptable. We need to think about the broader context, what my colleague Jovanovic mentioned, so it's not enough just to prescribe and say we met that standard and everything. Of course, the positioning of women on the list is also important, but if we do not only have women and men and women, however, people who know why, not because of quotas, but because of what they represent, what they want to change, if we are talking specifically about running at any level of representative bodies or units of local self-government, regional and so on, then we must go wider. We have to do exactly what our colleague Jovanovic said to go towards systematic thinking, encouragement. We had one proposal within individual and our party related to the interest committees for women that we don't think actually should or should not exist if there should be any inequality that should be particularly represented, that's the goal. This framework itself is a time frame if it encourages some women on the lists to really deal with, to work and to represent. But it's not enough to have him and say, "We've done it, it's not enough." So I agree it's a good direction, but there's still a lot to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40865	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Curai. We are moving on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40866	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In January, we had the first reading of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Gender Equality when the Government delivered these amendments to the Parliament. As a HDZ club, we support these changes. We know why there's been a change. It has been established that we have already heard that the issue of protection from victimisation has been resolved differently in two laws of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality, and this has led to certain contradictions in these legal norms. The fact is that these amendments to the law do not, therefore, change some large body of law, nor will these changes lead to some expected level of equality in a business environment or society. These changes are objectively not a big step but are a step in introducing order into a legislative framework. And looking at the comprehensive and not partial, any amendments to the law that will contribute to the regulation of the better, it was also as technical as the case is here, i.e. when it comes to harmonising with the European legislative framework, which is due to be regulated by Croatian legislation, so I welcome it. The more the revision of this law raises the question of course, and we have seen this in the previous discussion of the need to improve and some other laws that are substantially connected. In this regard, some will recall that the first reading held a discussion at the session on why there is no immediate change to the law. So we can agree that a comprehensive amendment to the law in this sense is necessary for these changes to happen sooner or later, but it must be based on an analysis of the situation to be seen in a targeted way, which is not good, specifically in this law. We know what the questions were in the previous first reading, that now I don't individually list them here. But it is important that it is now said that there is no challenge to the need for a comprehensive amendment to this law and the need for those issues raised in the previous debate is not disputed. Although we know that some of these issues and some of these remarks are not only the subject of this law but they concern two more, or three other laws. And what is important to say is that some of these remarks that were made in the first reading are actually arranged in other documents. As far as I'm concerned, the Istanbul Convention has been mentioned. The Ministry is preparing a proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the so-called Istanbul conventions to be held in parliament in the fourth quarter of this year. The Ministry, as far as I know, has also drawn up a draft national strategy for protection against domestic violence in the period 2017 to 2022, and this document has been significantly improved compared to previous documents. And the proposed amendments to the law on maternity and parental benefits are also a contribution in this regard. The lawyer for gender equality is mentioned. So the Gender Equality Advocate, as I was informed, supported the proposal to amend this law both in the first reading and in the second reading. She also agreed with the ministry resolutely that those proposals for amending this law, that is, those remarks that were made in the first reading and related to a set of issues concerning violence against women, should not actually be regulated now by this law since they are regulated by the Law on Protection against Family Violence which we had several months ago in our first reading and which, as far as I know, is just preparing for second reading. It is said that everything that is at risk of requiring protection is clearly the fact that women and children still fall within that category because that is not the case then there would be no need for a whole series of conventions, directives, documents binding or in terms of recommendations and at EU level as well as at a global level which is currently dealing with this problem. And regardless of what we are in 2017, so of course equality is not yet achieved category. But this is not my personal finding but is the conclusion of the Commissioner for Gender Equality, Vera Jourova, who said that gender equality at EU level has not been achieved, which she said in a women's day card this year. And as I said, to conclude, we support these amendments to the law on behalf of the HDZ Club because it will contribute to the introduction of order into the legislative framework and to harmonisation with the European acquis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40867	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by an esteemed colleague, Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40868	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Vuksanovic, I would just briefly refer to the part of your debate in which you spoke about, in fact, the technical nature of the amendments and addition of this law that I fully agree with. I mean, I'd like to put it back on the table. So here we are dealing with regulation of the issues of victimisation, so the same question is, in fact, regulated by two laws in our legislation. Thus, the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination in which the Law on Gender Equality as a lex specialis actually offers a lower degree of protection from victimisation compared to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. And in that sense, we are actually harmonising Article 2. Gender equality law referred to in Article 7 The anti-discrimination law thus extends the circle of persons entering the protection of guarantees against discrimination in order to strengthen their legal protection. And what I would point out, of course, is that although this change is technical, what I think is good and useful is actually opening the background, it creates a basis for a broader debate on gender regulation, equality of women both in political and social life and certainly provides one basis for of course questioning other laws, in particular the Law on Political Parties, the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and a number of other laws that need good, so I would say, I would like to search to regulate this issue as much as possible in our legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40869	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic, on the line. Answer, dear colleague Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40870	Thank you, dear colleague Bedekovic. I agree with your replica, of course we have laws that comply with the European acquis, and which concern women's rights and general equality of fundamental value in the Constitution. But when we talk about equality, then perhaps we should not put emphasis on the quantity and on the number of women, but solely on quality. Of course we're all about equality as women and in that sense, but we can ask one fundamental question, so is the question of sex so relevant in terms of quality doing work? So, you shouldn't, I personally don't consider myself indifferent, either you're capable of a particular job or you're incapable. And that doesn't have to depend on sex at all. When we start with the gender issue being relevant for doing a job, we are already at the beginning of ourselves or anyone else’s discrimination. So whoever invented that category is a professional ability and quality to perform, I'm going to say highly demanding jobs, depending on sex, and he's done enormous damage to every society that believes that. These stereotypes and prejudices can do great harm, and I repeat or do quality work or not, whether you are a man or a woman. By, of course, not thinking about jobs that require physical strength but intellectually demanding jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40871	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. We have another replica, dear colleague Tomislav Liposcak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40872	Dear Vice President, colleague Vuksanovic. Well, of course I agree with everything you said in your debate, but I have to add another observation about this whole thing. In fact, very often equality here does not even come into question, but it is an equality that often comes down to simple mathematical equations and ordinary ratios between representation of men and women. What we often don’t talk about or forget is all those women who are asked to make a statement about whether they are planning to have children or not. These are all those mothers who, after returning from maternity leave, do not have the opportunity to return to the place where they worked until then and very often have to and of course not by their own fault, decide between family, between children or careers. So it is not a problem to respect pure quotas and gender ratios, but the problem can be a lack of human respect or discrimination between women, those mothers who choose to start a family especially with more children. And just because gender equality would not be reduced to the mere counting of men and women, it is necessary to improve awareness and thinking and above all respect for those women who opt for a career, and to start a family. If we don't give them the opportunity to be equal and not just equal to the opposite sex but also to say to our own sex, then we will be able to say that we have done something and not only through the prism of this law but by seeing and expanding the benefits of starting with the demographic development of our homeland and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40873	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Lipošak. Reply from a colleague of Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40874	Thank you, dear colleague, thank you, dear Vice President. Well, as I said earlier, so a mere count of the women's quota actually only goes in favour of discrimination against those same ones. Therefore, the ability to do a job is not dependent on sex, and that is the basic starting point of my personal life, and I believe every single person who thinks in a logical way. When there was the first reading of these technical amendments here in January, then we had a dynamic debate, and I remember that I received an e-mail, which was a pure hate speech. Although I think too much, so I don't insult anyone, this very excessive debate was, I was wondering if this email was an individual's expression or could it be said that maybe this mail represents a group in society, fortunately a smaller group? Likely, that hate speech that comes down to this “that which you women are talking about here in the House, go cook, wash, clean, take care of children, ” that probably means one part of society. But I would have asked that individual who sent that e-mail, "I'm sorry, sir, because it's a man, and how do you know I didn't cook for my kids last night, how do you know I didn't put those kids on this morning and take them to kindergarten, and how do you know I don't like those kids?" Ask my children if I love my children, ask them what kind of mother I am, and is that in coalition with what I'm talking about here in the Parliament right now and I'm trying to do my job fair and square? So I think better than any replica for such men, there's one song, as I like rap from Elemental is called "Ethics" and that's exactly it. Sticking labels without knowing anything and not even going deeper into the taste of things you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40875	I thank my esteemed colleague for his reply. We're going to the next debate. On behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Ivan Willibor-Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40876	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, as I said earlier in the presentation of the Committee on Gender Equality, this law does not change much, only 4 articles, several alignments with European directives, our article on Gender Equality has 45 articles, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination has 31 so that these amendments will deepen it a little bit, i.e. One step forward, however, and the Committee itself felt that significant changes would soon have to be made not only to this law but to the entire electoral system. And exactly the electoral system is what let's say what the most attention triggers in this context of ours so that I will try in this exhibit of mys to give a few thoughts in this direction. I would like to say that this current measure of 40! of minority gender representation does not rightly contribute to gender equality in politics, in the political system, in the councils. Why? It's very simple. Unfortunately, women are placed at the bottom of the list and are generally not selected. We know that the percentage of women in the Croatian Parliament has fallen between the two last convocations. As for statistics in the councils, here I was earlier reading that he grew from 28 to 41 among the candidates. And it's one thing to be a candidate, the other to be elected. But he was also a big step forward, psychologically it got into our heads, moved us to think about it, that's what we're talking about. I would love to see in all segments of human activity both here in Parliament and on the board and I don't know at college and wherever I go, there's some ideal ratio of about 50:50. And it wasn't our stranger's Living Wall that was hard to reach even this zip model half. If I remember the election in 2015. The Orah had exactly half of it at the time. That was their principle, exactly half the male candidate, half the female. I think it was also the zip system male female, male female, or vice versa. So they had 50%. We had a 47% somewhere. And let's say the more traditional parties, let's say the most I think HDZ and HSP have stepped down. They had significantly lower. I would love to say in all segments of society equality, but it depends primarily on consciousness. It's a consequence of consciousness and society. The important thing is to talk about it, it is important to take measures like this that are not of course 100% effective. Gender equality is not something you can immediately do as you can say that you can lift a privilege or bring a tax. It's a process. So it's a process, a generation process, a process of maturation, a process of development of democracy and ideals of equality, indeed an ideal, something to be pursued. Are we gonna get him? I guess so. On average, Croatia, yes, I believe we will achieve it in 15 years. However, there will always be differences. Let's say we have at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing if I'm not wrong just every sixth or seventh student is a female, or student, and it's traditional. Believe me, we'd love to see more women in our college but statistics are as inexorable as they are. On the other hand, you have some other colleges or we can introduce a parallel into anything in professions, in a variety of things that are statistically difficult to enroll in women. I absolutely respect and respect the principle of gender equality in the Living Wall, promote it where we can, respect legal norms, and I think they're good, that they should be improved. But the principle that is stronger than gender equality is the principle of free will. So we can't bring in a sharp cut right now and say that every other person on the list has to be not a male or female. So we force a party, an organization, or we can talk about college or I don't know what, force her to commit some kind of coercion, not to say violence against her or her members or her protégés. Because maybe some people who wouldn't want to be in that place are pushing them to be in that place because they're also the legal norm. If people don't want to sign up, I don't know the PMF won't sign it up. If they don't want to get in, I don't know the HDZ or the SDP or the HRAST won't get in. If they don't want to be first on the list, they won't be the first on the list. Then why push them to be there? So as far as I'm concerned, the principle of free will is certainly above the principle of gender equality. And only by the development of society and by the development of consciousness will we come to a phase in which I believe and hope to equalise as they do not know the Scandinavian countries, other developed countries of democracy. And right now it's certainly a process. Croatia is developing here. I'd say it's far above the average country, maybe not for Europe but for the world. That's one development step at a time means. As far as the entire change in the electoral system is concerned, we certainly need it not to expand our vision of the electoral system model, or the assembly. It is certainly necessary, and when it happens, it will also have to be amended by the Law on Gender Equality, the Law on Discrimination and already mentioned the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, on the financing of political parties and a number of other laws. I think more, I speak here specifically in politics about women since they are less represented sex, will report for political duties when the faith in politics returns. So we must return to our citizens, voters to believe in politics as one process of public welfare care, a process in which we can fight for change and achieve change. We have to send them a message to fight, and we often send them a message that it doesn't pay off, that it's all predetermined and that some send them a message that crime is worth it. Here's what makes me sad. But in my work, I've made sure that just by fighting and just those who say they can and will eventually do something. Those who raise their hands will certainly do nothing of defetism, escapism will be nothing, or other words if you do not fight others will speak without you. If you were looking at the law itself, you have some 37 pages if I am not mistaken, different proposals, remarks that are very good, I would say very good, some are calling for European norms and standards, some are Croatian inventions, Croatian solution. For example, it's interesting to hand over a list that doesn't meet the manic sex quota 40%, some suggest that the list is automatically rejected. If the list is automatically rejected then the list will not exist or exist legally and can not be fined. I think that this solution would be something that our level of awareness of gender equality right now, and that's something that we should introduce in the next amendments to the law and political system. I think the Zip system is still far from our level of consciousness, but this is one measure that I would personally advocate. I think that, on the basis of all this, it is necessary, here as president of the Committee on Gender Equality, one thematic session on the Committee on Gender Equality, in order to bring some consensus if possible, on how they will and should, therefore, improve their systems and contribute to the development of gender equality in the Republic of Croatia. It's probably only in some, I repeat, 10 to 15 years, that the ZIP system will be achieved, and here I won't be a prophet, it's kind of my assessment of the development of Croatian society, and that's something we all have to work on. Here's so much from me in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40877	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Willibor Sincic. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by an esteemed colleague, Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40878	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Sincic, we'll talk about the number first, then I'll tell you one paradox, if we're talking numbers, then right now in the government you have six women and a president of the Republic. And immediately the government would then be by number a record player in number of women. And if we look at three governments in parallel, then we would look at the numbers again, and the figures are personally less important to me, so again, the next government that was the recordr of Ivo Sanader in 2008, Jadranka Kosor 9.5% of women and Milanovic's 13% women. So the Social Democratic Governments are otherwise seen in percentages not unfortunately celebrated by number, but by number. So there's a paradox. It's an interesting fact that a number of women in politics don't necessarily mean a better policy. It's strange to hear from my wife, but it's a fact. Why? Well, what I've said many times, professionalism and responsibility, have nothing to do with sex. So we can, of course, strive to level, but take care of those categories above all. Why is that? Well, we have examples all over the world, so if you want to go to Europe. By improving women's rights, therefore, you do not improve the political system at the same time. You have an example of a Margaret Thatcher, who was a woman who was not quite famous for female solidarity, and moreover, during her and her reign, women were not very happy about women's rights, and neither Theresa May is much different in these women's matters, and some even say that Hillary Clinton lost the election, among other things because she did not unequivocally ask herself many questions, and one of the questions is that. So, it's all in favor of that thesis, so it's women, but it's men who vote for them and it's not about sex, it's about whether someone's capable or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40879	I thank you for the replica of the esteemed colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Answer, dear colleague Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40880	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is my colleague, Petrijavcani Vuksanovic, I can agree with you that first of all you should look at the ability, I said down at the pay phone, that the principle of free will is something that in my view is stronger than the principle of gender equality, if it is not free will, that it does not do any work in the government or that it does not enter a university, it is certainly stronger than some norm that pushes that party, to put such a person on the list. If he doesn't, who are we to force? I also think that the principle of ability for a particular place that should then lead to a better policy, is also quite a strong principle and that someone who draws up a government should also be put before gender equality. I would be very happy if our government had, like this there are 20 ministers, 10 female ministers, 10 male ministers. However, we know that this is difficult to achieve in practice, and that is something to pursue, but we must not just have someone because there is a particular gender, whether male or female, in a particular position, in a particular position. So free will and ability before gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40881	I thank Ivan Willibor Sincic for his reply. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40882	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Sincic, therefore your debate was good again, just as it was in the first reading. What the two of us disagreed on, you said here that on the basis of the discussions that were held and in the first reading and public debate that things were about to change, you know that soon it wasn't really so much for me, it doesn't give me so much confidence that it would be soon, because look at us for a technical change took a year, there even in the summer of 2016. I mean then Minister Juretic brought these changes. Why is it important that I wish that the Minister had the full support that all forces were actually used to make the laws as soon as possible. Here you go, '73. The year the tennis player King fought to get the tennis players to equalize the prize fund with their male colleagues. Last year, and because of that, tennis players are as paid for as well as men, the only sport where there is this equality. Last year, Novak Djokovic, listen to his statement "Statistics is convincing on the side of tennis players, we have more audiences and that is one of the reasons why we should make more money. That would be fairest if those who make the most of their contributions also made the most. The tennis players have fought for what they have today, but men should fight even more." So you see, it wasn't her in '73. The years of voting for the fund wouldn't be that and it's a vicious circle. Messi has 70 times the salary of best football player Martha Brazil, in many sports it is. So you have to fight, you have to make rules, laws, and that's the way things change. You mentioned the ZIP model, so why don't we bring him in? So what's waiting for me to think? It's... otherwise the big story won't be much progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40883	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40884	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll look back on a few things you said. Yes, of course the change of laws encourages gender equality to develop, but what happens? The change of the law forward encourages the development of consciousness and then the development of consciousness again drives an even better change of law and that is one round, a circle that lasts and it is a process, 10, 20 years as it has been. However, if we introduce a radical measure too soon, I'm afraid that there will be a conflict and that this circle of ours will either stand in place or go backwards. So my personal opinion is that the ZIP model for the time being for our society's state is too radical, but I'd like it not to be, I'd like to see equality in all models, but I think it'll take another fifteen years to see it. When you talked about the changes that were about to happen, yes, I said that more through hope than through some kind of analysis. We know what the political system is like in Croatia, that it's a lot of trom and it's made so that it pleases unfortunately the big parties. It has been transmitted for decades, the engineering election is clear, here I will remind you only of the year 2015 when we had three types of norms from the Election Law in force that year. We had somewhere if I remember correctly until the 2nd month a norm that prescribed the collection of signatures for the election lists and a few more things, then the Constitutional Court collapsed, so something was returned, but I remember exactly the set-up laws to affect the election process that year. I wanted to say that once that change has already taken place, it will certainly go towards greater equality, it will not go towards less equality. He feels this kind of pressure to change it, so I voiced this hope that he must soon change.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40885	I thank my esteemed colleague Sincic for his reply. And the last replica in this debate, distinguished colleague Željka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40886	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Sincic. In two of your discussions, you mentioned what the women's quota is on the election lists. I can agree with you there that women usually get the last places or places that aren't very attractive. But if we even ask women, do they want to deal with politics or anything else? You must know that we are still a traditional society where education, culture directs us differently. You also mentioned colleges, and you also need to know that there are women's and men's professions, that women still go to colleges that deal with women's professions, and our male colleagues go to those other colleges. Here's my example. I'm the first woman or the first doctor to set foot in the Gynaecology Department at Sisak General Hospital, it happened ten years ago, it's not that far past. Therefore, I prefer to think that in this Law on Gender Equality, there should not be only one letter on paper but this Law on Gender Equality should somehow get closer to the Law in human rights. Here's so much from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40887	I thank my esteemed colleague Željko Josic for the replica. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40888	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are facing an amendment to the Law on Gender Equality. We talk a lot today about discrimination, we talk about quotas, and what's in this law? In this law, we are now not going to the usual discrimination that we want to remove. So six directives introduce the best European practice, world practice not because discrimination is happening in Croatia, so someone ordered us to avoid this discrimination but because it is happening elsewhere. We face discrimination on a daily basis, not women, but men with various forms, sometimes we don't hear. Our job talks can go the best and the most pleasant, we can talk cordially and everything, but in the end, we won't be able to be employed, because someone decided that he was better off hiring a man. But now in this change, there's not a word. We're talking about the worst forms of discrimination, so when we're brought into an awkward position, when we hear all sorts of nebulists and not just those against which discrimination has been made. So this law protects persons who have been brought into an unfavourable position because they have reported some form of discrimination or have refused to perform some kind of order that is discriminatory to other people. So we're talking about protection from victimization. It's a form of discrimination that puts us in a position of sacrifice, so when this discrimination so advanced that we simply have very harmful consequences for our daily lives. And of course we need to strengthen that protection. We want women represented. How to achieve that is the question, are quotas a good way? Here's a colleague, Josic, said, "Do women want to do politics at all?" So it's not really just a question of whether they want to deal with them, we want to encourage them to deal with politics because we need them, we need them to help us with issues in the adoption of the Demographic Recovery Act, in matters of things that really concern women, where they can really make a good contribution. Here's a colleague Curray said, women don't need to be on the list because they're women. I agree with that, too. And many times in the business I faced it, I had a specific job where we had to create our own administrative body so that both young and women were represented and age-old. And I was really wondering why now I have to put this young, kind of person I have when more contributes to me might be more experienced, but in the end I really saw that it was good. Here's the woman on the list, sometimes we suspect they're on the list because they're women. But sometimes men are on the list because they're men. Some representatives are on the list because they simply come from a certain municipality, from a particular constituency. And we do have these individual examples when we're putting together our Parliament, maybe some colleagues on the list didn't even get into Parliament, and they're much more professional, much smarter, because maybe they'd contribute much more to this Parliament than some who have entered, we can evaluate it individually. But we all agree that we should have, say, geographical representation in the House, so I think it's good and that we have representation not only of women but of young different professions and I don't think the quotas are bad, or very good because when we look at it, very some countries that women have put in a bad position, the introduction of quotas over time has really made progress. And it's not just a question that women are fighting for, but it's a professional question that we need to talk about on the basis of research, based on something we've experienced in history. So I agree with my colleague Curai, with all of you, women shouldn't be on lists just because women, women aren't quotas but many of my colleagues will be aware, so that women and without discriminatory questions are very, very, really be... some kind of thought and that really this kind of discrimination sometimes he's not visible to me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the one who's visible, this one when someone suffers the consequences because they won't execute an order to unemploy a woman, the one who reports it by this law is protected and punished. And we often hear in conversations of a terrible situation where, personally, when I was in one conversation, I was interested in expressing my desire that if I created a free place that I was interested in teaching in high school, then they told me, so you know you women are 9 months pregnant then you end up running all the time when your child is sick and you're constantly in some kind of pain. And so this discrimination happens often through institutions, often not at all entrepreneurs who refuse to hire a woman because they do know maybe someone who supports a child and everything to be committed to the job because they keep the job. And it's not even true that the entrepreneurs are you, that the capital is the one that makes discrimination against women. Indeed, there is one among our institutions, and I think we can do very well with those quotas. Basically, I said that I worked, that we had such a body, that we didn't have at the beginning, that I wasn't sure if it was wise for someone to prescribe in an area that wasn't densely populated, you have to have so many young and our young are leaving, we have an older population. But in the end, I saw that we really had good results because of those quotas. Not a quota for women, but for young people and old people and representations and geography, and I think it's ultimately good for all of us. I don't think it's a question of whether women want to deal with politics, the question is to encourage them, to attract them, and to ultimately not talk about demographic recovery, about any issues that will improve the position of women without encouraging women and encouraging them to engage in all areas of social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40889	I thank my dear colleague, Dragica Roscic, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first came to the line from a respected colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40890	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Roscic, you said in the first part of your presentation that women should not be quotas, as I understand it. It is in line with what counterpart Curray said that it is not good to legally force women to be in politics. But the law, apart from prescribing rules of conduct in a society, also forms that society, gives it guidance. I think everyone should, legal solutions should be like that. And it needs to be simple, it's the only way to change people's consciousness then, otherwise we'll be in a vicious circle. Now that I've mentioned this example, I'm going to go back to sports for example, even that school of management in San Francisco found that women should be less paid in sports because they get less tired, because their paths are shorter, they're being subjected to less effort. So here's the only way to fight it, to extend the paths for women, to be, to be the same dimensions, to be the same effort that needs to be done, and to be paid equally. And then women say, it's not an attractive sport for women and they're not interesting to sponsors, to everyone. And it's a vicious circle. So give more money and see how interested everyone will be. You know, so again this law is extremely good, you should support it but you should go into legal initiatives, you should, because that way we'll shape people's consciousness. Because if we say it has to be 40% of women, that's good, so let it be, so let's find these women. Well, it's just that we've forced them into politics, so let them go into politics because that's just the way to change society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40891	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Answer from my colleague Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40892	You missed your colleague a little bit, so I didn't say women, we didn't need quotas, I said women aren't quotas, and we don't need to use women's arguments shouldn't be on lists because they're women. Is that not a good argument? We can also use it when we have quotas for both geographical representation and representation of young people and everyone or professional representation. So women aren't quotas and we need to encourage them, to start thinking that, right now, it's really good, it's not lame, we involve women. Because it turned out to be one way that still yields results regardless of those arguments, so you know these only put women on the list to have that representation. Sometimes one puts someone from a settlement and places in some local election just because he's from a village. But in the end, we see that the final results are positive when here and in this House we have representation from all parts of Croatia. And maybe we could find the same experts and women and men from only one constituency. And maybe someone from the constituency of one could solve the problem better than the representative who's in the other. There are such individual failures but ultimately we do have positive results because we have representation means both women and men equal to or 40% or at least in some relatively not too different proportion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40893	I thank you for your response to my dear colleague Roscic. Next replica, distinguished colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40894	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Rosčić, you are here and I would like to refer to that part of your debate as a general question about women's participation not only in political but in general in public and social life, generally when it comes to our Croatian society. When it comes to involving women in politics, I believe that the quotas that are currently in one way or another are more or less declarative, more or less in practice are used as a single mechanism of involving women in politics. In my court, quotas are just a temporary mechanism that will be temporary until we bring women into politics to the level of awareness that we don't involve women in politics just to fill out the electoral lists, and to fill out the assembly benches or benches of representative bodies of units of local, regional, regional self-government. And for this one different approach that will be based on awareness of how many women have competences, education and everything else to engage in political and every other life, so it should be a matter of strategy. A strategy to involve women at party level. I have a feeling that everything that we do is still being slow, not strategically well thought out. Similarly, it seems to me that the participation of women in Croatian society will be complete, we will wait a long time for that, at the same time as we provide all the conditions that a woman can simultaneously meet all the needs of family life, be a mother, be a wife and on the other hand, when she will be able to develop her career and her personal professional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40895	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesni Bedekovic. Answer, dear colleague Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40896	So, my colleague Bedeković, I agree that this should be a temporary mechanism and really society should be what both family and clothing care will be, not only put more burden on the woman, but will systematically enable and help women to function even though it is the duty of the state, because the state in general if we look at her as a separate whole has the benefit of helping and including her. I would even go one step further and when my colleague Irene said she understood some difference in physical readiness and I don't even understand it sometimes, because it seems to me that sometimes we women can be more physically than any of my colleagues or generations, so she wouldn't dare say that women are even physically less willing and let alone intellectually in anything to contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40897	I thank you for your response to my dear colleague Roscic. The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40898	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Roscic, we know that the EU is investing considerable resources in laws and regulations regarding gender equality. And yet, we have a fact that this equality has not yet been achieved. We can ask ourselves what it would be like if we didn't have legislation, how much would that category be minorized then, but let's say one of the biggest issues that is the problem in the EU when it comes to equality is violence against women, which is gender-related violence and according to the EUROSTAT report, every third woman in the EU, so in EU Member States, she has experienced physical or sexual violence. For example, in this violence, we can actually illustrate this whole genealogy of equality because that law is the best in the world, it cannot prevent what comes from the family. This is actually about the need for synergy from three aspects. Government through quality legislation, through regulations, through laws, should be sanctioned and prevented certain phenomena in society, on the other hand civil society should be a correction of authorities and help women where the government does not work enough or is not sufficiently covered by legislation, and, of course, civil society also points out where you notice it should. And thirdly, she's in synergy with the family. And the family as a nucleus of society creates future citizens and their awareness of equality or inequality. Because institutions can't prevent what comes from family, from raising. If a child looks at forms of inequality and violence, it will apply these patterns when it grows up. Therefore, it is also necessary to achieve through legislation but in the society of synergy these three aspects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40899	I thank you for the replica of the esteemed colleague Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic. Answer from my colleague Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40900	I would just point out, I believe you will agree that the EU is not investing much against discrimination, but we are investing together, because we are part of the EU as a modern state, we are fighting discrimination. It is very important for the violence that you have well pointed out, not only to be loud, because we often complain that when violence happens to women, we are quite loud, we share it on social networks, but that we are really working and that somehow we are also here to create and work institutions and to bring real legislation that will enable and speedy procedures and enable funds to work and judicial bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40901	I thank you for your response to my dear colleague, Dragica Roscic. We have the final word, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed State Secretary Margareta Mađeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40902	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. She would thank all MPs and MPs who discussed the Bill on Gender Equality in both today and in their first reading. Since it is asked several questions very briefly I will answer the amendments and additions of the Law on Gender Equality, the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to the regular procedure in two readings to the Croatian Parliament. All proposals made in the first reading and therefore not related to those provisions of the law, amendments and additions to the Law on Gender Equality could not be accepted and I therefore believe that today's debate but also the debate during the first reading should also be the aim not only of our Ministry of Change and Supplements to the entire Law on Gender Equality. Because that very amendment of the law would not achieve what was discussed, but it is necessary to amend a number of other laws as well as the Law on political parties, the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, and other regulations in order to truly achieve equality, representation and equal representation of women and men on lists. As regards the Law on Gender Equality, in fact, Article 12 clearly defines that implementing measures will promote equal participation of women and men in all bodies both executive, legislative and judicial authorities in political life, diplomatic representations, committee members, commissions, delegations etc. So as far as the Gender Equality Act is concerned, we have a good regulation of the law, but also the data that respected MPs and MPs presented during the debate that it was precisely in the last local elections of 47601 candidates that we had on the lists, which for the councils of local, city committees and county councils of women's participations was 41.7%. But that, of course, raises the question of positioning women on those lists. Often they're in the bottom of the list. It is known to say that the decorations of these lists are, and then when we get to the final data of how many women are chosen they are defeating. As for the top positions for municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors, the percentages are much, much smaller. So only about 15% of the women were candidates, while on the other hand for the deputy municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors that percentage is twice as big as 29%, which actually gives an answer to the question whether women want to deal with politics. That they want each other and there are them. Memberships in political parties prove that approximately 30% to 40% are just women, and by joining any political party shows that they want to engage politically. But surely that the question of women's representation on the lists, but I want to point out here that in the Law on Gender Equality is defined as a sub-represented sex, and I believe that one day there will be no women who are sub-represented sex must be a consensus of all political parties and see which model is best, whether it is a ZIP model, whether that participation is 40%, and I believe that we all aim at not having quotas, but that each list, regardless of whether it is a party or an independent, has equal representation of women and men, and that no one should be forced to do so. As regards these amendments, as I said in the opening part of the Law on Gender Equality, it is in line with the requirements of the European Commission in relation to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006. I thank you for your support of all those who debated. Finally, in connection with the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, lawmakers who discussed also stressed the importance of ratification. The resolution ministry and Minister Murganic formed a working group at the beginning of the year to prepare the Law on ratification in the fourth quarter, so the last three months of this year in the Croatian Parliament will also come to debate the Law on ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40903	I would like to thank the honorary secretary of state, Ms Margareta Madjeric, for this closing statement. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank State Secretary Margareta Mađeric and her associate for the reasons. We'll vote on this item on the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40904	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality, second reading of P.Z. Number 68. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. And I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality. Please vote. I find that most of the votes 117 for and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40905	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final draft law on damages due to infringement of competition law, second reading. P.Z.E. No. 108. The draft law shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in connection with Article 190 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the motion for an act by dispatching the Parliament. The attachments to this text are not multiplied but are located on the Croatian Assembly website. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the parent committees of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Is it possible that the motionary's representative would like to give an explanation? Here you go. Ms. Natasa Mikush Zigman, the State Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. It is before you, therefore, the final proposal for a law on compensation for infringement of competition law which transposes Directive 2014/104 of the European Parliament and of the Council of November 2014 and which applies to rules governing compensation proceedings under national law where there is a breach of competition provisions of the Member States and the EU. Therefore, by adopting this regulation, Croatia fulfils the obligations it has as an EU Member State and in fact fully respects what is prescribed and fundamental, i.e. a basic contract on the functioning of the EU, which is a protection in the event of abuse of the ruling position and of the prohibited agreements. The Law on Compensation Procedures for Infringement of Competition Rights through 20 of its articles follows the previous mention of the Directive, but at the same time it is adapted to the existing laws which have been laid down in Croatia by the rules on compensation for damages, while I am referring to the Law on Mandatory Relations and the Law on the Procedural Procedure. On compensation issues under this law, the jurisdiction will be subject to trade courts in the Republic of Croatia, which as specialised courts and otherwise judge in the proceedings of damages in other legal areas related to trade relations. This law lays down the rights of the damages to the full compensation caused by infringements of competition law, and sets out in detail the questions of the detection of evidence in the proceedings of damages to the competent commercial courts, the protection of confidential information and the disclosure of evidence contained in the case file of the competition authorities. A special provision also provides for a restriction on the use and detection of such evidence and provides for fines for breach of the rules on the detection of evidence. On the other provisions of the law, issues of limitations, impediment and solidarity of entrepreneurs who have violated competition rights are covered by their common procedures. The specific chapter also provides for the transfer of excessive prices to direct and indirect customers, and for the damages of the damages from different supply chains. The last 2 chapters of the law regulates matters of calculating the amount of damage by competent trade courts and agreeing to settle disputes. I would like to point out this at two basic goals of passing this law. The first objective is to remove obstacles to the exercise of the right of all those injured in the competition and thus enables anyone who has suffered damage caused by an infringement of such right by entrepreneurs or by an association of entrepreneurs to receive full compensation from entrepreneurs and associations. The full compensation for the damage means that the person who suffered the damage is placed in a position in which it would have been if such injury had not actually occurred. Total damages include the right to compensation for property damage, not property damage and related interest. The second fundamental objective of this law is to promote the full efficiency of the protection of competition through the harmonisation of EU-level rules in damages. The law will contribute to an effective competition, as it will enable the Republic of Croatia to incentivise compensation procedures for infringement of competition law, which currently has a small number in commercial courts, and will also result in public injury to the protection of competition, thus determining the injury and sanctioning it following a private legal exercise, i.e. damages caused by that injury. In the first reading, the draft law was discussed in the Croatian Parliament on 16 March and was supported by 120 votes for, 3 abstentions and none against, and the expert holder adopted and incorporated the text of the final draft law of the objection to the Croatian Parliament's legislation which did not change the essential text of the law, but only the no-technical amendments in Articles 15 and 19 of the final proposal of the law were made. I therefore propose, following all of this, that you support this final bill and I thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40907	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman for this explanation. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate on behalf of the Club representative of the Independent Lists Bridge, Honorable colleague Miro Bulj. He's gone. Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Grozdna Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40908	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's the point, I'm on behalf of the HDZ Club, and I'm going to support this law in a way and in the first reading itself, as the secretary of state has said, we've pointed out certain shortcomings and I think this law is very much in line with all those suggestions we've been making right now. In the Republic of Croatia, the area of competition protection has already been governed by the Law on the Protection of Competition and also by the various sublaws necessary for its implementation, and since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, the Competition Protection Agency has the power to apply directly the provisions of the law and the provisions of the legal property of the EU, which determines the area of protection of competition. What is important to say is that, in the case of proceedings and the protection of competition, there was indeed an inequality of procedural rules and insufficient application of the right to ex post damage is guaranteed by European law and this was in fact the reason why the adoption of Directive 2014/104 of the European Parliament and of the Council which actually regulates the proceedings for compensation under national law for breach of those provisions. What is important is to say that certain provisions are also governed by general rules, as well as the Law on Mandatory Relations and the Law on the Procedural Procedure. The Directive regulates the rules itself to ensure that anyone who has suffered damage caused by infringements of competition rights by entrepreneurs or associations of entrepreneurs can effectively exercise the right to demand full compensation and damages from that entrepreneur or associated and provides a framework for the adoption of the rules. The Directive lays down rules for the coordination of the implementation of competition rules by competition authorities. Member States had an obligation to transpose that directive into their national legislation by the end of last year. It should be said that the Law on the Protection of Competition regulates the exercise of competition law for the public exercise of law itself, and the directive refers to private implementation and that it is only applicable to damages caused by infringements of competition protection rules for the purpose of taking over the directive adopted. This is where the secretary of state mentioned what is governed by this law. Therefore, the first proceedings shall be settled itself for damages due to infringements of the right, and the questions of disclosure in the proceedings of damages to the competent commercial courts and the protection of confidential information and the disclosure of evidence contained in the case itself shall be regulated. It also provides for restrictions on the use and detection of evidence, i.e. in the process of carrying out or detecting statements of the penitent entrepreneurs, and also for fines for breach of the rules in the disclosure of evidence. This law also regulates the impact of decisions taken by competition authorities, and issues and issues covered by the limitation of proceedings and the solidarity of the entrepreneurship of the entrepreneurs themselves are also covered. Therefore, what makes it possible for the law to contribute to uniform rules in the very compensation procedures that have taken place in the event of infringement of competition law, thus allowing for increased use and the exercise of the right to compensation for damages. The aim of this law is also to strike a balance between this public and private exercise of competition law and to achieve the uniformity of material and procedural rules. This law also aims to ensure that any natural or legal person who has suffered possible damage can also require full compensation for damages. Therefore, this means that public law enforcement of competition protection is also followed by private law enforcement, thus achieving effective protection of competition. I think this is how a very significant shift is achieved in the protection of each individual and every legal person and we, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40909	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for this debate. The following has applied for the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I can say at first that we standards that are related to the improvement of any situation related to damages to competition, means consumer protection and compensation are supported and we believe that such laws and directives of the EU bring about a better quality situation in Croatia. What we do not support is unfortunately in the past ten, fifteen years in the Republic of Croatia and longer we have a whole series of situations that border on or are a violation of competition, but there is very little reaction from the competent institutions. And when you see about what situations are being solved within the Agency, most often it is about small things, auto schools, agreements of some cartels, etc., we didn't have much compensation for those who are damaged and we think that Croatia is still behind standards that apply to the EU. When we have situations like those of the EU who are suing large American corporations for billions of euros because of the distortion of certain market relations, when we have those who will be in Croatia, and who have done such things for years, we will be able to say that there is a high-level standard. We unfortunately didn't have it, we saw the biggest concert of the Republic of Croatia for years acting on the market as he wanted in relations with suppliers, with customers there was everything, unfortunately we see how it ended. But what we worry about further is the behavior and now the current leadership of Agrokor which continues to pursue old practice. We think that many of those present on the market, especially when we talk about financial services now and in this process of restructuring Agrokor, will charge huge money for damages, for their own benefit, and not for the damage of taxpayers. We see at this time that Agrokora is being rescinded with roll-up models that are neither in line with the law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has brought about with Agrokor but which allows foreign funds to earn 60 % of the contributions in a short period and that ultimately all suppliers and all those in line will be charged and I would tell the lawsuits from the Republic of Croatia or from taxpayers. Which is why the government does not know, we can assume because we see that the government is really a set of interests that have little to do with politics and it has more to do with some individual particular interests pushing certain things and then individuals making enormous profits, I said, this is about 60% of the yields in a year and a few days. But we can promise the Croatian citizens that we will find out and that we will examine the whole story until the last of Agrokor and the whole story when an investigative commission is established in Agrokor because I am almost certain that, at this point, it is also under the leadership of Mr Ramljak in Agrokor, in some situations, a competition competition is at stake and it is not good. And we need to be very clear about this and we need to prevent some of this, I would say to the poor situation for the Croatian economy rich and that others lose as suppliers what they invested in Agrokor. With this short-term debt, the 500m euro fire measure will certainly not be possible to reconcile all those suppliers who have been with Agrokora for years, I would say suspicious market circumstances and competition functioned and participated. Because when you have a connection, it means a dominant commercial company, or wholesale or retail like Konzum, with the production of food, drinks and other things sold there, then it's very hard to believe that it all works without internal arrangements, without consummation with manufacturers. In this way go counter and customers as well as others competing on the Croatian market. And on this side, we welcome the application of measures, to apply standards that apply in the EU but from dead letters on paper, from what is standard in the EU, unless we apply it in practice in Croatia we will have nothing. We here can vote the laws and vote them, we also support us from the opposition, you also saw yesterday when voting very many laws that are EU standards but in practice very little is happening. And with its action, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shows in the same situation as the Agrokor, that it does not behave in accordance with fair competition standards and that it continues with the old standards. And that some are comfortable, that some of them benefit from it. I said unfortunately in this case meshetars, so the funds that came here for a short period of time to earn enormous money, the question whether they had information before and with a roll up and with the law, all Croatian citizens need to hear and need to know. And that's why I call once again on you to test it as soon as possible to see basically full information about Agrokor and what happened there and we will support this law. However, I say once again, we are skeptical of its appropriateness because, in practice in Croatia so far, it has been unfortunately shown that consumers are essentially the last and not the first around which everything should be rotated. So the consumer should be a citizen, ordinary, who earns his salary and spends that money from 1st to 1st, or from 15th to 15th, on what he needs, he should be in the first place and be protected. Unfortunately, big companies have been protected so far, they've been doing almost what they wanted, because it's being shown from the practice that very few cases we have to say here, the state intervened, prevented cartels, agreements, made it possible for people to compensate for what they had suffered with such non-market competition and protected their citizens. So far, it's been seen working, protecting one, generally protecting the largest company, we've seen the government be able to change eight ministers because of one that came from, also from Agrokor, Zdravko Maric, that it is able to put the whole country in crisis because of Agrokor and one man. And that's what we in the SDP, not to encourage us, but we think that the government has gone in the wrong direction and that it will only be possible to correct it as it can only be corrected, and that is to say clearly what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia think about it in some new elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40911	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for this debate. We move on to the next debate, that is, an individual distinguished colleague, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40912	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I do not view this law as some kind of technical document transposing only EU directives, I view it as the conclusion of a single process and the opening of a completely new process, so here not once and not one year in a row we discussed the work of the Competition Protection Agency, which was the almighty god in terms of competition, but by entering the EU, by stopping the importance of only the public works, the increasing emergence of private conflicts on the market in the Republic of Croatia, and the other in the jurisdiction of the Competition Protection Agency, this law is something simple that had to happen. But what I'm trying to say here is, that's why I've come to the hearing, and that's why, in not one legal solution, we've worked things out well, but at the time of the execution, so when it's obvious that someone's done some damage to someone, and when it comes to a court ruling, how the one who's really damaged can charge it, and that the trial doesn't last for years. Unfortunately, we all have in our experience no matter what political option we belong to, that certain processes where damage has apparently occurred, lasts for years and basically one who has suffered the damage disappears from the face of the earth, and one who is powerful remains. And so I say, this law is a good basis for getting rid of something in Croatia, and this law is the basis for something completely new in Croatia, so far we haven't had it. However, what is crucial and this is the implementation of all of this together because I repeat, we have a well-proposed solution, but we lack that final blow that is said in the sport. And that's here when you read the law well, then you'll see that everything is fine systematically well done, what's in the power of the Ministry of Economy, which the Ministry of Economy can do. However, those processes that take place and that's court proceedings and charges if something is apparent, now the question is asked, I often like to say, so-called. bound-up laws, whether we will get some other amendments to the laws that will continue on this law and which will make this law operationally strong and strong. So, I think that's the point of changing this law. According to EU directives, the economy ministry has made the law, and now the law whether or not to amend some laws, the State Secretary mentioned two laws, but from some experience in the past, we have seen that these laws are not exactly operationally resolved and what is definitely a judicial process, at least when it comes to the economy, whether it is tax debts, whether it is anything that must not last for years. Where there's an obvious matter, the trial must be completed as soon as possible. One who is damaged must collect his claim, and also one who has violated certain laws in the Republic of Croatia must be punished. So, that was why I came forward for this debate because the bill is a quality and clearly defined problem, clearly defines what needs to be solved, but let me say, I am missing from some life experience and professional experience, which is when it is determined that someone has cheated on someone, and when a court ruling is made, how and in what way to pay, that the trial doesn't last long, because at the end of the day, a lot of you have been working in both state and local self-government, professional complainants on public procurement. How many Croatia, the local self-government unit, lost money because of professional complainants? Unfortunately, there is no legal solution. So here and here, if someone is definitely constantly breaking the rules of competition and not experiencing sanctions, because in the end, 1% of the income will not do much to someone, as punishment to someone of 50,000 kuna. Perhaps this limit of 1% should have been increased by some natural person, some craftsman who has an annual turnover of several hundred thousand kunas, who is being torn by someone with a fine of 50 thousand kuna, as the maximum penalty is, it does him a terrible lot, but someone who has an annual turnover of 10.15 million kuna, to him 1% in principle means nothing. I think if we were talking and since this is another reading, if we were talking about a gradual punishment, then maybe it was better to determine for everyone, then we're giving some right to judge that he himself determines how much it is, we're practically going from zero to a percentage, and then that percentage is fair to the one who has 300, 400 thousand, the total income and the one who has 30 million, 1%, 1%, and that's the most just way. Thank you very much. I will personally support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40913	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Shuker. We have one replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40914	In your discussion, you said what is the facts, which is that in Croatia we do not have an example of compensation for damages and would like to hear these examples, such as this same directive in the EU, the 2016 case against a part of the truck manufacturer that the customers are convinced of and prove that they have carded and dictated prices on the market, so the carriers have rebelled, and are asking 100 billion euros in compensation from these producers. This is about a long-term I would say contracts and a large amount of goods that have been bought for decades and it is evident that something is happening in the EU. With us people whether because of less information, whether because they do not believe in the institutions of the state do not decide such things at all, and I guarantee that there is if we want to be completely honest with a lot of examples in the largest Croatian companies using the situation, and now I am telling you, I am convinced that this is still happening both in Agrodor and under the administration of which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken responsibility. When you have the largest retail distributor, which holds more than 20% in total, in some parts of Croatia, in the city of Zagreb and over 40% of the market. There should always be eyes wide open and see what's going on here. We still don't have that consciousness, let alone that people shoppers join together and press a certain lawsuit in certain situations that I think are controversial. When I see as these examples from the EU, then I will say that these laws also make sense to those who protect competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40915	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. The answer, dear colleague Shuker, is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40916	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, I can in principle agree with your replica. But I can't agree with something that you're pulling with one's tweezers because then we automatically tear down the basic principle of this law that we said we'd support. That's why I said, those who need to control this should follow the law. Then there's no name, no last name, no name, no political option, nothing but a law that we all have to abide by. That's why I said that this law, no matter what it is here in the debates, has been experienced by all of it as some kind of technical, in my opinion, personal completion of one process and we're opening a whole new process. Who doesn't say that the secretary or secretary of state won't be here in the House in a few months with a proposal to amend this law because it's been seen in practice that some things don't work. This is simply a very dynamic, very simple body that happens and is practically living beings that move around all the time. Some new things happen, you can't prescribe everything. But it's important if at some point there are some laws to stick to. And that these processes if it's obvious that someone did something, so I don't understand why this process has to take two, three or five years if it can be over in practically 10, 15 days. So remember the moment when you were in government, when we discussed the resolution of indivisibility, so we said it's not normal if it's obvious that someone did a favor or sold a product to someone, that this trial in court takes five or six years. So if we're going to look at it that way, then we're just all in this assembly, and we're not going to have any trouble supporting it. But I think it is in all of us's interest to solve these problems, because it is a direct initial capsule that this growth of gross domestic product is even greater and more important because we will simply remove illegal brakes and clips that are being placed on the market in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40917	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker for his reply. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy Natasha Mikush Zigman and the Honorable Maria Kulash, head of the Ministry of Economy Sector on the grounds of this bill. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met. Since the Resolute Defence Committee has not yet completed its session, we have planned to continue the session with the motions for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of NATO activities and EU operations, as well as coalition forces operations. So these four decisions. I'm setting a break until 2:00 p.m. when we'll continue our plenary session. Thank you very much. SESSION Interrupted at 12:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40918	The final proposal of the Law on the compensation procedures for infringement of the first competition, second reading, P.Z. No.108. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. As Article 19 of the final proposal of the Law has a feedback on the same, the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Law, on the basis of Article 193 of the Law, was manifested. Rules of Procedure, we will conclude whether there are particularly legitimate reasons for the return to action of certain provisions. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: There is an estimated reason for the reverse action of the provisions of Article 19 of the final proposal of the Law on the compensation procedures for infringement of competition law. Please vote. I find that with 120 votes for, therefore, unanimously, the proposed conclusion has been reached. And we're going to vote on the law itself. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on compensation procedures for infringement of competition law. Please vote. I find that, unanimously, with 119 votes, the Law on Compensation Procedures has been passed for violation of competition rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40919	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS]] We continue with the afternoon work of the Parliament, we begin with - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on empowerment and determination of compensation, second reading of P.Z. No. 101 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the materials, the committees have held their meetings, I ask the Proposer to contact us first. Mr. Salapic, here's a fellow Salapic who was in the assembly bench yesterday, now in office of the secretary of state, right? Well, congratulations again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40920	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Assembly for your welcome. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I present to you the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privilege and Determination of Compensation. Execution procedures are too long, and in particular because of the complexity of the property security process as one of the conditions for submission of the extradition proposal. The complexity of the expropriation procedure, which requires its inappropriate duration, prevents investors from exercising their right to incentives, rights to support, prevents credit responsibilities, application for EU funds, so the final bill proposes the following to simplify the property value assurance process in such a way that mandatory oral discussion replaces the obligation of the user to propose, in the application for real estate security, three experts or appraisals, which the previous owner must demonstrate within the specified deadline, agree with the offered or proposed 3 experts or appraisalsors. The public legal authority which conducts the administrative procedure shall, without delay, be entrusted with one of the proposed experts or assessors, and at the same time determine the time of performance of the eyewitnesses. We estimate that this is the longest period of 15 days. The form of compensation is in line with the most representative form of compensation, which is the practice of showing that it is a cash compensation, so one of the fundamental objectives of amending and supplementing this law is to give the person who has the primary right to the real market value of the property that this... the price on the market, and the second step is to give replacement property, as it was in the previous bill. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The form of compensation shall be harmonised with, the period of validity of the government's decisions, which has established the interest of the Republic of Croatia from 2 years to 4 years. Here we made sure that the deadline was not inappropriately short or inappropriately long. Furthermore, it is determined that the value assessment report should not be above 2 years old, and that is where we made sure that the transparency of the procedure was considered the most. What is one of the most important amendments to this final text of the law, we introduce a provisional decision on the expropriation, which, subject to the fact that the fee is determined by the finding of the market value assessment, is obtained by the beneficiary of the right of ownership of the property for which the proposal for exemptions has been submitted. Furthermore, the temporary solution allows the previous owner to receive the cash compensation of the real market value of that property immediately, if the previous owner is not satisfied with the compensation, it is allowed to proceed quickly with the procedure in which the compensation will be determined in the follow-up procedure. Since there have been discussions in these 2 calls to Article 50. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is said to be in violation of these amendments and amendments of the right of ownership and authorised persons, has led a special debate at the Ministry of Justice, where we do not agree with this finding that the article of the Constitution, primarily the owner of this temporary solution, which we have already had in practice and in tax solutions so far, therefore immediately receives a real market fee in the value of its property, and if it does not agree with it, enables it to continue the procedure or, if both sides agree, to replace adequate real estate, which was in the previous draft law. Here's our exposure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40921	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Agent Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40922	Dear counterpart Salapic, an interesting exhibit you said, however, there is one objective doubt about the credibility of the state, because the property owners that was seized during the communist era have not yet been compensated. So, the state is doing a new expropriation, and already this old expropriation, has not been adequately compensated, which will say that injustice has been done to people, that injustice has not been corrected, that this authority is preparing for a new takeover of private property, and yet has not reconciled the burden of the past, and that is one important thing. And by doing that, this government as well as you actually shows how he feels about private property and how he treats people who were essentially robbed by the first communist government, and then the HDZs who continue to rob it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40923	Thank you. Will you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40924	I'll have the vice president. Thank you very much. Your Honor, Agent Pernar, the problem you've presented has little to do with this final text of the law, it's true that there are problems. I don't agree with you that the government is taking someone's property, the purpose of this law is transparency. We have made sure that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in particular Article 50, the aim is primarily to speed up the process, the transparency of the procedure, and the practice has shown in the current cases, that 90% of the owners get the real market fee, and that within the shortest period of time, and before it is months, so I can say for years, so that this final text of the bill will speed up the process, really charge the compensation to the monetary owner, so that the government does not ask him to give him an adequate second replacement property, and all the other problems you have called on will be the subject of resolving the Ministry of Justice, and I am sure that the aim of the Government is not to hijack property to anyone, but to bring our legislation into line with the legal property of the EU, above all, in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, without any exceptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40925	We're going to discuss the law on behalf of the clubs. In the name of the Live Wall Club and the SNAGA, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, who is not in the hall, loses his right to debate. On behalf of the club MOST Independent Lists Representative Miro Bulj, whom I also do not see in the hall and loses the right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40926	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enabling and Determination of Compensation is one law that is very important, not only for us here, but for the people we sit in the Assembly, but above all I think about those whose law is absolutely necessary and it is up to us to bring it in the best, quality and fastest possible way. Since for many years I have been the head of the local self-government unit and the mayor of the town of Pleternica, in my Požeško-Slavon County this law and I am certain that in other units local and regional self-government is expected for many years. The problem is that for years, here, given that I have been in this Parliament for many years and years, I have tried through every form possible through ministers who have acted in these duties and in the Ministry of Justice to influence and help in their thinking, but I have failed to do so because I simply wanted to show and prove to all those who write the law that more understanding and practice should be carried out on the ground to find out all those problems relating to this Law of Privilege, so first of all, I think of the units of local, regional self-government and all those who deal with any capital investments, this law is so much needed to pass. And those changes that were supposed to take place in the past time period that were not made have indeed brought great damage and a great backdrop in development, I mean the economy above all. Of course, we cannot regret what has gone past, and what is behind us should not look back, but we simply need to raise our heads and see how and how to do as best as possible to make this law and these amendments to the law do good for those who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia. All of us in the middle, I say, acting certain duties as mayor, chief, mayor, we are aware that the very lack of this law has slowed down many capital investments. I'm saying it from my own experience, because what we wanted to do in a short procedure or a short period of time, we just didn't make it. Therefore, this law will contribute simply to making all capital investments or to the idea of individual investors at the level of cities, municipalities or private interests possible during the shortest period of time. That's why I can't be surprised that all those people who have managed the ministries so far have been ministers, simply haven't learned and recognized the interest of this law. I've always been, and since I come from an economic one-mile radius, I'm sure that all law-making people should in the future spend more advice on the ground and consult with those people who face these problems every day. Because in the past time period we had that these same procedures lasted not for months, but for years, especially where individual owners of certain or capital investments or land had turned aside and simply achieved their rights by judicial means and ultimately, did not achieve what they wanted, but a compromise was found, but we lost a lot of time and we stopped many investments that were necessary for the survival of people on the ground of every municipality, city and so on. Of course, by this law that was passed in the first reading, we have seen that this law solves all these problems that we have had so far and that this law should improve all the problems that have arisen in this past time and God forbid that the sooner we forget that with this new law concerning each person, we should bring prosperity and the future of any unit of local, regional self-government but certainly the prosperity of the Republic of Croatia. This law allows us to, in one brief procedure, simply with all those who have ownership or land or a certain property, with one common agreement, at one fair price, with one payment that will take place through a public assessor who deals with this business and I am sure that in one short period of time we will achieve a satisfactory level on both sides. We are witnessing today that many people who today have certain properties, on certain routes deal with speculant businesses, deal with simply setting their own conditions, set prices at their own discretion and are not market prices at the same time. Therefore, any judicial assessor will determine the price of that same man who owns a particular property will present the price, if he is not satisfied with it, that price will be paid to him in one special account, and if he is satisfied with it he will accept it, if he is not satisfied, he will seek some court procedure, therefore in another procedure, but by not being able to prohibit, as before, a certain capital investment from being realised or by God, from stopping it. This new law is just written in this sense that a certain person is depreciated but that the works can be continued, and that, as I said, the dissatisfaction of a particular person from which the property is authorized, simply seek his satisfaction in a court or other legal procedure. With this law in this way we will certainly enable all those investors who want to invest in Croatia, it is a guarantee that in one simple, quick way we can come to the realization of the wish and that is to build any investment at any level. Certainly this law also gives us the opportunity and encouragement to encourage all those investments that we've had so far and we've witnessed in units of local, regional self-government, that in a short period of time with this law we're going to encourage many investments and I'm just coming from Požega-Slavon County, we're witnessing that we're building, and we need to build one big investment, and that's one flood defense shift, but here's because we have a few and a large number of parcels, we just haven't been able to do that so far. We were not able for the reasons that some people agreed, but others disagreed with a price. This law will allow us to rule out all those who may be speculating, but at the same time, I would like to point out another problem. Many of our public state-owned companies in capital investment have different arches of compensation per square square of certain land. Of course, this should be dealt with and seen to be precisely the kind of investors, let's say I don't know Plinarro, Croatian water or any other company matching their prices for compensation per square square of that land. Because coming in is certainly a single one of them creating one discomfort among people because one of them pays 35 kuna per square, the other one pays 20 kuna, the third one pays 7 kuna, 8 kuna. And then, of course, we're dissatisfied with people because we don't have a uniform criterion, and we know ourselves that such large prices of local self-government units simply aren't able to pay it. So I would ask that we also take account in the future to see how and how to level these prices, but certainly appreciate a normal, average price for people to be satisfied with. Because once again I stress this law brings us great encouragement to all those people who want to build in their midst to ensure one transparency, to ensure one speed, and I'm sure that's exactly what this law brings us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40927	Thank you. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first replica by Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40928	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Comrade Lucic, you said that you were amazed that many in the executive authority did not notice that this law was absolutely necessary and that it was necessary and necessary to bring it in as soon as possible. I remember talking about this and the need to pass this law in the period 2011 to 2015. This law is certainly, as you said, an economic and infrastructure life for all units of local self-government, regional and regional, and I am sure that of 556 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia there are almost no municipalities and cities that have not met the problems of expropriation in their infrastructure and economic projects. Maybe it would be good to find out from, maybe from '93. To this day, how many municipalities and cities have actually lost precisely because they have not been able to carry out the exorcisms adequately. It would be good to know that number. Since you worked at the local self-government unit, you know that in one budget year, time passes quickly and actually those funds disappear. That's why I'm glad and welcome to the adoption of this law. It will certainly improve the work on the ground and will certainly not prevent the development of units of local self-government, regional and regional, which is their goal and why we are actually in this House to pass such important and life-threatening laws in order to improve the work of our colleagues on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40929	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40930	Thank you very much. Yes, colleague, that's exactly what I was talking about because I said I was the mayor of a small town for 12 years who, in his wishes and in the realization of all those capital investments, was simply not able to achieve it. It's too much damage at such a small level, not to say what big cities have been fighting this problem so far. The old law was equally enforceable, but he was unspeakable. And what else is the problem? This old law could have been interpreted in several ways, and we are witnessing exactly that in the Republic of Croatia, and especially when we talk about justice we can interpret the law in six or I don't know how many more ways. That's not good. And that's why what I was saying earlier, this price that should be somehow unique when it comes to public state-owned enterprises, it has to be harmonised, not to come by one company offering 25 kuna per square, the other comes by 7. When this guy comes by 7, he says I won't, he was paying for 25. Well, that's the same thing we're going to have to do at the most recent time, so we don't just create this kind of discomfort on the ground. But with this law, we've done really one transparency and one speed and these prices that are the lowest today, let's say in the continental part of 7 or 10 kuna per square so that you get 70 or 100 thousand kuna for one hectare, that's not small money. But we also have those speculators in other parts of the Republic of Croatia who want five times as much. And that's where we need to find, so for that one environment, and then we'll be even more satisfied and the law will be even more enforceable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40931	Thank you. Next replica representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40932	Here's my thanks to the vice president. My colleague Lucic, I think you've told it nicely. But it reminds me, however, of a return to a former time where everyone will be able to determine what is public interest. Which is the public interest the local self-government unit leader is going to say. Any one of them can figure out for himself what public interest is and a very slippery terrain on this matter. When the investment is made someone paid you money and determined how much your private property or private land is worth and went for the part that you think is unfairly compensated for how long it lasts in our judiciary? Endless. And I think that way many landowners, real estate or some other private property will be damaged. I personally have a lot of bad experiences with Plinar and with such companies that mostly come out of the way that you have to lean on for years to come up with a fair fee. And if you didn't deal with them before they started doing the work, it's very hard to get a fair fee after the work's done. I think this law should be done a little bit more and that unless we've attracted investors so far, we're not going to make this amendment to the law and make investors come into the Republic of Croatia invest. I think they've made a mistake in some other fields and we need to change some other things in this country, not just this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40933	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40934	Well, my colleague, of course, there's indetermination in every law, but this law is greatly improved compared to this one. I don't understand why certain problems would be, why do you think it's wrong, why don't you trust a judicial assessor, who's a court evaluator, an authorised judicial assessor to assess how much your assets are worth, you can't ask for something that, the market price doesn't exist. I'm aware that everyone appreciates their most, but if we're going to look at it realistically, the judge will determine the price of your land and therefore this law allows you, if you're unhappy with it, look at it at another instance, pleasure and prove and prove that your land has far greater value and that, then by exercising that right, and the demand you may be looking for eventually and gain. If something is estimated at 10, it may also have a value of 12, perhaps you will prove by that court procedure that your price is higher than this estimated and you will again be satisfied. But if you're looking for something that costs 10, you're looking for 30, and I can't agree with that, and those very speculant moves have made these capital investments impossible so far. And look, if we solve the Act of Exclusion, if we solve some other judicial and legal matters and solve a lot of these other things that threaten us today to achieve capital gains, then I'm sure there will be far more capital investment in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40935	Thank you. Next replica representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40936	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Lucic, I understand you as the head of the local self-government unit, I see you spoke from that perspective. I couldn't agree more, but also with colleagues who say there's a lot of abuse. I know a lot of units of local self-government and leaders, where they worked roads, gas pipelines, sewers and didn't see if it was private property and it was an execution that wasn't right. I can understand private owners, too, because we know that property is inalienable that complains of unfair price. However, both these privates and owners have repeatedly stopped investment as you have said, and I agree that several times in local self-government units no investment has come because of simple private interests. Now, there's a measure to be found in that. How to make investments, how to build roads, and yet not to be inalienable. I have examples in my unit of local self-government, and that's what citizens speculate more than once, simply give ownership, they own the country to build roads for them. And then clearly later, they again call on the Act of Exclusion and demand that the same road be paid to them. So we have different examples in practice, and really in this together we need to find a measure, how do we work in units of local self-government and roads and gas pipelines and all that together, without our citizens being in any way damaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40937	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40938	My colleague, I agree, since here we have probably experience and knowledge of what it is to run a local self-government, but I don't see simply that in this new law we won't find everything we haven't found in the past law. It is clearly stated here that the market value will be determined, that you will be paid the money, that capital investment, any road, any other investment, will be taken part of your private property. One example only in my Požega-Slavon County, in my Pleternica, you heard and saw that there were great floods with us, 500 households were destroyed and now when a draft is to pass along the railway line that will protect all these settlements, which will take a certain square area, not a large area, people today detest. They detest the reason they are not, they are not eligible for an adequate price and they are probably right, because Croatian waters today pay 7 kuna, tomorrow... Come pay 24 kuna and that's what's the big problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we pass this law, we're going to have to deal with this buy-in of this particular market value, not one company buying-out at one price and the other at the other. If there were 24 kunas, there would be no problem at all, everyone would agree, but here are the current problems, the investment stands, God forbid we look at every time in the sky, whether there will be a cloud break and that 500 families will be flooded again. Now with this law we will speed up the matter, but here I am also as a representative who comes from Požega-Slavon County I will also try to find in the relevant places exactly that these companies like Plinar, Croatian Waters, agree the price and that it is a unique price, not that they have one, the other one, and with this law and these prices will surely be far more satisfying and I think we will be far more able to invest and that the investments will not stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40939	Thank you. Next replica representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40940	Thank you very much. Colileg Lucic, the fact is that the agreement builds the house and that when we reach agreement that this is the best solution, however, in relation to public interest and private ownership, we often do not have that agreement. There are no more reasons, and part is maybe because we don't even know as owners of certain properties to manage, we don't know how to take advantage of some opportunities, and then we think that even the general interest, are mostly institutions or municipalities and the city or state, there's always enough money to calm down our interest. And it is really not easy to achieve a fair or quality relationship between public interest and private property that is protected and we think that the provision on the Institute of a temporary decision on expropriation may be the closest to the part that can be called just. So we give the opportunity to achieve the general public interest and that whoever thinks it may be damaged has the right to come through certain procedures to what he considers to be a market value without stopping what is important to all of us, which is an investment. I think this law is a step forward, it really is a step forward and it's just a question of whether we can now, through this parliamentary debate, possibly build up some amendments to make it really what we all want, and to be the most just. Because the fact is that there's a fee, there's an evaluation lab, there's a... a solution to expropriation, and we can continue the procedure in seeking our own market value. I think the procedure is fine and I say, it is clear that the Republic of Croatia finally wants to speed up many investment procedures, and then people stand in the way, property, and everything that has to be protected on one side, but also the general interest that is important to all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40941	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40942	I agree with my colleague, Boric. And it is clear that the private interest has its own price, but at the same time this private interest must be rational and it must be assessed with one price that is acceptable for both sides and for the other. It is with this law that we will surely adopt and all these well-intentioned replicas of colleagues coming from the left or right, that we should send through the amendments our opinions and see what can be done or how to make it as effective as possible. Once again, we've witnessed the law we've had in recent years, we've been tormented, we've been standing with investments, we've rejected certain investors because we couldn't tell if it's private property that we can solve it in a simple and quick way. And that's why this law gives so much space and so much guarantee to future investors, but it certainly gives room for that man to be compensated for if he's not satisfied with a search with firm arguments that and a legal path to achieve as high a price as possible that I don't mind. But once again, prices should be unique in Croatia and that all companies dealing with such businesses especially at the state level agree on a single price and then we will have no problems and I am sure that with this law and with such prices we will be guaranteed that we will be able to carry out our investments without any problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40943	Thank you. And another replica of representative Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40944	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague here I am very pleased that you who come from local self-government to talk about this problem because the definition of public good is, or manipulation of definition is very unfortunate. And of course, as Mr. Lenart said, we've had a lot of worse pictures in the past, we've been kind of talking about all these negative situations that can happen at the exorcism. But we do have a specific situation, let's say in coastal places that I'd like to point out. We have roads that are used, which we consider unclassified roads but they are not listed, and what the municipalities have on them is the responsibility to keep them, to patch them up, to do basic repairs on them. But the moment they want to modernise them, when they want to put in some modern lighting budgets, and they're not so generous, when they want to report on funding from European funds, there's a problem because they're not owners. You mentioned the negative sides of the expropriation here, and I'm very glad to learn that in view of the position you're coming from, but we have a situation that you've also said to the speculators. So if it happens that on one particle someone wants to get five times as much as they should and constantly makes this process difficult and stalls we have a very bad situation and these problems happen all the time. They should also be resolved by this acceleration of the expropriation process and the temporary solutions that will be partially resolved and so should indeed go in that direction, and to remove all the negative things that you mentioned that may not be at the level of legal acts but sublegal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40945	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40946	I agree, colleague, my experience is just telling me that I was in one of our big companies in the supervisory board when the A1 highway was built, and there were just a large number of speculators who were looking for abnormally high prices for their private property in the junk that was practically inaccessible. And that's the problem that comes up then and on the local self-government unit, too, which is not harmonised. And there are exactly the problems I was talking about today. We haven't solved all the problems with making this bill, but if we go up the stairs, and we're going to have to make this law truly enforceable as quickly as possible. He was already promoted by this law-making process compared to the previous law. But I repeat, in order to avoid speculators, we need to set a price at the level of the Republic of Croatia when it comes to expropriation and in this case we will achieve satisfaction and we will give a signal to all those who are thinking about dealing with speculant moves that this is not possible, not legally, nor in any way by achieving one real price, that people are deprived and thus we will achieve mutual satisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40947	Thank you. We're moving on to a debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40948	Dear colleagues and colleagues. The previous debate, as well as the replicas that followed, pointed to a large level of ignorance and misunderstanding of the Institute of Property Rights in the Republic of Croatia. And what is worse than that has also shown the lack of understanding of Article 50(1). The constitution of the Republic of Croatia which speaks of when someone can be taken away from their property. Because when we talk about the Exclusion Act, then we're talking about situations where the state is taking away someone's right of ownership. It takes away the real estate that he acquired by his work, for example. For 20 years he worked, every month he took the money from the side to buy some kind of orc, the state took it away from him. Or take away his grandfather from generation to generation into his family. But the fact is, I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues to understand in the extradition of state interventions in private property and take it away to give it to someone else. Sometimes it's a state, sometimes it's a state agency, and sometimes, because it's also possible to transfer property to another person's private rights, some kind of company or something that builds something that's considered to be of more public interest than that Pero, Marko, Janko or someone else remains the owner of the property in question. And why do I start with this kind of doctoring in the introduction of a debate on the Law of Execution? Because this bill goes against everything written in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And I will start from the beginning, from what is most important, and from what you have greatly praised. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about expropriation and access to expropriation, we will always find a conflict of private ownership, individual interest and on the other hand of public interest to make something happen. When we find a solution to that, never, but we must never let it go beyond one of those two interests, ever. We must not fully protect the right of the individual because then no project would ever be realised, but God must neither be fully sided with the state and allow the state to do what it wants with private property. Disposal of ownership rights on the basis of a temporary solution, I will repeat it once again, a temporary solution to which no appeal is allowed, is not in accordance with Article 50 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I will repeat once again, it must be quite clear what you are doing, you suggest that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia may be deprived of the right of ownership by a temporary solution that can be implemented in land books before it becomes legal. And you're on trial later. Five, ten years who cares. That's what you suggested here. And I won't make too much of a mistake when I say that what you've suggested is bordering on the expropriation that was being carried out during the Yugoslav communist rule. I won't make much of a mistake, though, I'll be right. For 27 years, we've been moving away from what was in the socialist system and access to taking away the rights of ownership that existed at the time. We've been looking for our way. In the early '90s, we went towards the full protection of individuals, of course only on paper because in practice it worked completely differently. And in 2014, we came up with one solution that was to be satisfied and on the one hand the interest of public bodies, the interest of the public, the interest to create something on the other hand the interest of the individual. And that was the institute of temporary entry into property property. So here, but not in all cases, only if the infrastructure was built, or if the special procedure proved to be such a special public interest, could be taken into property before the extradition procedure was completed but only entered into place. The beneficiary of the expropriation did not acquire the right to own the property. When you sell me a story about the need to settle the issue of ownership rights for access to European funds, my answer is wrong. There is no need to regulate the issue of ownership rights for access to European funds. In order to access European funds, the issue of property legal relations needs to be settled. Because property legal relations in different EU Member States are regulated in a different way. For example, in the UK, because acquisition of ownership rights is more exceptional than the rule given their real estate availability system. What does that mean? That the one who got some real estate in the UK for a period of 999 years that wasn't unusual for them will not be able to get money from European funds for her, I don't know, her energy recovery or anything like that, not gentlemen. In order to access European funds, property legal relations need to be regulated and they can be regulated in several ways in the Republic of Croatia. For example, for all those who know the right to know that in our Law of Property and other real rights, there is, for example, an institute for building rights. And real estate, for example, like a building, a hospital or so, can be built at the Institute of Building Rights and that at the same time the owner of the land is completely 10th. And of course, I and with such certain property legal relations have the right to access EU funds in exactly the same way as with the owner of the property, in exactly the same way. But you're using this one nettle, this one misunderstanding that is ruling towards European funds to say we need to acquire ownership rights, we need to get it right away. And now watch what happens. You've transferred my property to an expropriation user based on a temporary solution, I'm initiating proceedings before a court of law, and in three years I've received a verdict that says I'm right. But alas since it was being built, let's say I don't know the school, sports hall or something on my property that's now been returned to my property is a registered mortgage in favour of the Zagreb bank that financed the building of that school. There is something called the principle of trust in the land book, I don't know if you're familiar with it, the Zagreb Bank, for example, or some other, Raiffeisen, etc., performed with trust in land books and this mortgage survives regardless of which the user no longer owns the property. I can't succeed in my dispute against the bank because it has acquired its pawning right perfectly legally. The only thing I can do is conduct a procedure against the user of the expropriation in order to obtain the compensation of the damage caused to me by the illegal conduct of the state government. Dear colleagues and colleagues, don't pass a law like this. We've made the amendment, it's very simple. Article 10 of the Law shall be deleted. And the explanation is even simpler. It is totally constitutionally unacceptable, on the basis of a temporary solution, to take away the right to ownership and to prevent such a solution the right to appeal. And as far as the temporary solution is concerned, I'll stop. However, it is not the only problem with this law. Article 2 Article 11 is amended as follows: ‘For the equated real estate the owner shall have a cash compensation at the level of the market value of the property’. Great. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A constitution that says "ownership can be taken away, but with market value compensation." But then we have a problem. Be careful, there is no word in the Constitution “extremely. ” He's got it in the law. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. That Article 11 and later in Article 46 states that such a replacement is previously required for the consent of the owner of the property. But it's not here. It is therefore contrary to Article 50(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which does not know the exceptions to the determination of the fee paid to the owner for the right of ownership withdrawn. Furthermore, you discussed the issue of how an artisan procedure will be conducted, how the process of assessing the value of the property to be taken away will be carried out. And yes, you're right. There is a huge discrepancy between the various skills and the amounts obtained for these properties. You approached it from the aspect of the public authority as someone who was part of the executive authority of the local self-government unit. I can say that I am fortunate to have been in my career and was also part of the executive authority as a member of the headship, so I had the opportunity to see how the extradition procedure looks on that side, but at the same time as a lawyer, I had the opportunity to see what the extradition procedure looked like on the part of the property owner. The owner of a property that, for example, has land on the pipeline track. On the route of the gas pipeline that goes out on land on one of the most attractive parts of the pulse coast where tomorrow, the day after that, you can build a house whose value will be estimated in hundreds of thousands of euros, but you will never build this house because you will have a gas pipeline going over that route and then you get an artisan, made by a user of authority, made by an expert from continental Croatia, who has absolutely no knowledge of the value of real estate in Istria and who tells you that the land along the sea in Istria, is worth less than 20 euros. Less than 20 euros. And the tax administration neatly in all neighbouring properties and when assessing the tax, it estimates it at a rate of 80, 100 or 120 euros so that you here will make such a contract with me or with you or with a third party, regardless of what you put in 20 euros, pay the tax as if you sold the property for 80 euros. Why am I telling you this whole story? Because this will happen in the situations provided for by this law where the public authority is bound exclusively by a proposal or by the user of the authority or owner of the property on whom they will entrust the skills. And that's wrong because there's going to be a fight, there's going to be a conflict, there's going to be a choice, or the person proposed by the authority user or the person proposed by the owner, the other side won't agree. So what are we gonna end up with? We'll end with a strain of debates that will eventually have to result in the election of a third, fourth or fifth witch. What's the result? Prolongation of the procedure. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, I fully understand the intensity that some of the things that are related to the expropriation are speeding up and it is understandable but when we talk about speeding up the process, which is thus intervened in ownership, as one of the fundamental rights that belong to the citizen and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then the acceleration of the procedure cannot and must not be the only reason we will be led. Especially if at a second glance we see that acceleration is not really what the representatives of the ministry are, or now it is difficult to talk about a colleague since yesterday, that is, how the government shows it. The SDP representative club cannot support this law, but not only cannot support it but we will announce what we said during the first reading, against this bill if it is passed, in this form, we will have to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40949	In the afternoon section, ten lines, I think it's already a light record. So the first replica of representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40950	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Your Honored colleague, therefore, would not agree with you regarding your exposure if this was the case for the extension unconstitutional in view of Article 50(1). As you have noticed, the Constitution states in that article that it is possible to limit or confiscate ownership in the interest of the Republic of Croatia with a market value compensation which we have in this case just solved. Because I'm an article 36a. which speaks of the adoption of a provisional expropriation solution suggests that this solution can only be made after the estimated amount of the market value of the real estate is paid. Therefore, not all of them are the allegations that you made in your debate. As far as the appraisers are concerned, I can say that the opposite of you, in fact, this is how the procedure is being accelerated for the reason that here, since I come from the locals, I know that many times so far by the owners there have been objections to the evaluations made by certain witches. In this case, the owner is now allowed to agree with the proposed evaluators. And if he doesn't agree, then he's proposing three appraisers. One of them is evaluating. In this way, he later cannot be called upon in the process to be unsatisfactory, or reduced to this maneuvering space. Because he's the one who suggested real estate experts to be evaluated. What I can say is that exactly the meaning of this law is what you deny, and we're witnessing that we can't report to competitions right now, to numerous tenders to withdraw funds from funds if we don't prove property rights. And that's exactly how the expropriation was solved. That'll make it possible. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40951	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40952	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues, so I'll do it one more time. You don't have to prove the right of ownership but you have to prove that you have solved property-legal relations. Property is only one of the ways in which property-legal relations are solved. For example, you can also get money from EU funds when you build a sewer, for example if you have established a service on a property you know very well, since you come from local self-government. However, for the laying of pipes, sewers are generally the institution of ownership rights almost and not used but is used by the Institute of Service, so-called. incomplete expropriation, etc. But I'll be right back. A solution that is temporary, which was adopted in a shortened procedure on the basis of an apology against which I do not have the possibility of appeal, must not be the basis for the acquisition of ownership rights in a state which wants to be considered legal, democratic and orderly. If you already consider that, on the basis of a temporary decision on the expropriation, it must be possible to enter the right of ownership, then allow an appeal against such a solution. If you are not going to allow an appeal, then such a solution cannot be the basis for entering the right of ownership, but only what already exists in the law, which is possession before the end of the proceedings. There is a huge difference between trespassing and gaining ownership rights. And you as a lawyer know it just as well as I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40953	Thank you. The next replica of representative Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40954	Thank you, Mr. President, I apologize. Dear Grbin, so in your first part of the debate you looked critically at the temporary solution and you stressed that the use of European funds is not only necessary to have the right to ownership but it is necessary to resolve legal property relations. So, you mentioned that these could be other rights, so I'm asking you, do you think that there's a minor violation of ownership rights and that it's better to restrict the right of ownership as you mentioned that in Great Britain I don't know any property to use for 999 years? I mean, what do we get with that? Or if we give the right to build on someone's property we're still in possession of. I think the most important thing is to determine whether this public interest is strong enough to limit at all the right of ownership or to acquire ownership by the public body. So here's what I'm curious about is your further suggestion on whether you think and how that would work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40955	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40956	Dear colleagues, therefore, acquiring property rights is only one way to regulate property-legal relations that enable someone to have real estate. One way is to institute the right to build. It is an institution that Croatia has taken over from Austrian law, and Austrian law has designed it to be built primarily for public purposes. As regards what I mentioned to the UK, it was only to show that not all legal systems within the EU are the same, and that EU law, or law regarding EU funds, is not treated, or cannot impose an exclusive requirement, as is claimed in Croatia, which is that ownership is a prerequisite for withdrawing funds from the EU funds. I just gave you an example of the sewer. Channeling systems that are one of the bigger systems that we need EU funds have and cannot have a prerequisite for acquiring ownership rights. Why? Because the sewer systems are placed in the hull of the road. Now, however, let's get back to what you were saying about the temporary decision to grant. I'm afraid you are, or I'm afraid you don't fully understand what is and what is the constitutional and legal importance of ownership. Property is really the right that gives the holder almost absolute opportunity to make things available. We can only limit it in cases prescribed by the Constitution and by law. We cannot limit it on the basis of a temporary solution that a person will not have the right to appeal. That's not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40957	Thank you. Next replica representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40958	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm afraid I have to say that the leaders of the local self-government unit and the lawyers don't agree. We're on different sides every time, but this time I have to agree with you that the Institute of Temporary Solution is not the solution. Not for the owner of the country, not for the leaders of the local self-government units I'm talking about. You talked about how EU funds, EU funds can't be used clearly if we don't have building permits. Building permits cannot be obtained unless we have resolved property relations, and property relations can be clearly solved by the right of service. But I have one other question, and here I'm going to use, here's the secretary of state listening to me, he's the same lawyer, and you're a colleague and you're the same lawyer, and I think he's going to use many of the leaders of the local self-government units, that's when we're doing infrastructure in a particular area, or on roads that have been in use for, say, 40, 50 years. Clearly, after that, in the new Roads Act, we go to legalization and extradition. In that case, does the owner have the right to compensation? We're talking about the road of use for 40 or 50 years. Does he have the right to compensation or does the local self-government unit have the right to expropriate without compensation? Here I think that would be one question, here is for the secretary of state, but also for you fellow attorney, let's see and help many members of the local self-government unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40959	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40960	Dear colleague, first this part of which you have spoken, that, exactly what you have said, incompletely expropriation is the same way that the issue of using the property is solved, the same way that allows you to use the funds from European funds, so the the thesis that the ownership must not be held by water, which automatically raises the question that it is necessary to adopt, or introduce a temporary solution to the expropriation, in order to be able to withdraw funds from European funds. However, this second part you mentioned is an extremely complex issue, which unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, is extremely common. The problem is whether or not the person who took away the property at the time of the deposit that took place in the 60's, the 70's, the 80's, the person from which the property was taken away from was paid a fee. If the fee is not paid, then the local self-government unit must pay the fee, however, if the local self-government unit proves that the 50's 60's, etc., and they would be surprised how many of these units of local self-government keep such certificates and how they go out when necessary, if they prove that they have then paid the fee to the person, of course that the compensation should not be paid again, but you must understand that this is a situation where we have to protect the right of the individual because today we are having a debate on how the law will be arranged and the deposit did not go so democratically. And if this law is adopted in this form as proposed, it will again be implemented as it was carried out in the 60's and 70's 'cause it's actually back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40961	Thank you. Next replica, representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40962	Thank you very much. My fellow coat of arms, if I understand your debate correctly, we have so far had the authority, and almost all of them, when we look at the width of your debate, were almost in some way either nationalisation or expropriation, and we've simply done something that actually coincided with the provisions of the Constitution, so it took either 10 years, or 3 years or 2 years, and now it should be a little faster, and since there's no possibility of appeal, then we're just breaking it by the end. The fact is that we have one way or an attempt to speed up certain procedures here, but it can't be compared to what we had at that time, I guess, because we want to provide a fair market fee. I think it's clear to everyone and the law makes it clear. And a fair fee must ensure that you protected your fundamental rights as an individual, your rights, meaning what you had on that property, we evened it out to you with compensation, and on the other hand to allow society to develop in one just, quality way. It is clearly written in this law and in its explanation. Because it is clearly written that the Institute of Temporary Solution is, in fact, an authoritative act founded in law for the exercise of public interest. And that interest must be unequivocally established. So I can't remember as the head of the community that my political rival has some real estate, so I'm going to get back at him and that in some way it's based on my own wishes. No, I don't. If I want to build a road, I've established the public interest, I've made the necessary decisions, I have a location permit, it proves that that interest is there, that there's will, that there's means and we're going into proceedings. If we're gonna make a nice deal, we don't need the law. We can make a nice deal and move on. If we can't do this procedure, I think it's useful, and the question of what's right and whether until now it's been fair, every exercise procedure, whether they've all got what they're supposed to get, it's going to be an eternal doubt, but I think this is very close to what we should do as a society if we want to develop and, of course, private property to protect ourselves properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40963	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40964	Dear colleague, imagine yourself as the owner of the property and imagine on the other hand the body of the public authority before which it comes, e.g. hoteler found to be of public and strategic interest to build a new hotel. And this hoteler takes three witches, goes to the office of state administration in the Primorje-Gorski County, you disagree with those three witches, you suggest three other witches. However, the Office of State Administration says these three experts proposed by the hoteler seem more serious to me, selecting one of them, and then one of them says that the value of your property on Rab Island is located near the sea on which the construction of the hotel is projected to be 30 euros per metre square metre. For example, I am telling you a respected colleague that you listened to my debate I told you about such a situation that took place in Pula, I was talking about such a situation that happened on the land in Pula where there was an artisan that the land by the sea was worth 30 euros, 220 kuna per metre square. And now with that kind of skill, an evaluation lab is being created, and on this basis, on the basis of Article 36a of this law, I get a provisional decision on the expropriation, I sign up as the owner of your land, I'm building a hotel, and you'll have a respected colleague, Boric one there in the Administrative Court in Rijeka, go sue yourself. There it is, that's it. And be careful not to press charges with me as a hotel manager but to sue with the Office of State Administration in the Primorje-Gorski County, and then by tomorrow morning, the mortgages entered and everything else. Is that just, is that a democratic state? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40965	Thank you. Next replica representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40966	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. Here's a colleague of the Grbin exactly your debate on this law confirms the replica that I had of my colleague Lucic about this law which is essentially a bargaining capital at the expense of a small man where some price will be determined, here as you have now told in this example and where this poor little man will be able to sue, prosecute and not come up with any solution for ten years. In my personal experience, I have a case that an authorised judicial assessor has been corrected twice in his assessment, and after that, the investor is still 50% adjusted to all of that. So I'm asking you what it can do and how it can judge a court judge authorized. I ask you and what does it mean to Slavonia when you take his field because he's just not materially bound to it and emotionally because he feeds his family and produces it, he creates a new value, and since Slavonia is so empty that now we can take that land and give it to large capital, the difference between that country that took it in a similar way and this which then became this people's property, and in this case it will become the property of a German, English, Chinese or not know what, so he will come very easily with his investment to the quality land and some investment. Since the laws you're producing all these months that go hand in hand with large capital, not to mention the last one, it's lex Agrokor, and this law kind of smells like it's trying to please people who have money at the expense of a small man who's slowly leaving this country and now he needs to take what's last, and that's his private property. It means in a way that is in conflict with the Constitution, i.e. in Article 50, the following paragraph is added: The Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40967	Replication response. No, thank you very much. Next replica representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40968	I am truly amazed at the individual acts of populism towards the little man here, by the injustice that is about to happen to him. So why did you enforce the laws of the past and especially those who lean towards that left option, so you took away before the land the peasants and the grains in the attics, so don't transfer it to us today. We just want to help a man with a law like this get a real price. According to Mr. Peja Grbin's presentation, no capital investment is realised in the Republic of Croatia, this is what you were talking about earlier, and that is why I reflect on what you were saying because what you were saying, no investment is possible in the Republic of Croatia based on your exposure here in front of the SDP. And so I'm surprised that you're using populism, demagogy, and all our mouths are full of Croatia, capital investments, foreign investors, and in this way we simply force them not to let them do anything in the Republic of Croatia. So for you foreign investments are kindergartens, schools, hospitals, what your children need in your midst. You are proud of your school in Pula, and I am happy and proud, and what are you against is that it is not possible to exercise authority and that you cannot build such a hospital or school. Therefore, you are threatening constitutional lawsuits, so in the past four years, you have passed so many laws by force that the Constitutional Court has brought everything down for you. And HDZ and the government of the Republic of Croatia did not force any laws, and the Constitutional Court did nothing to end us. So let's not discuss constitutional lawsuits, you have great experience and that negative experience with the constitutional court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40969	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40970	Dear fellow Lucic, that I do not now transfer who has lost how many times in the Constitutional Court and what is the damage that has caused, I will only look at my colleague, Silvana Hrelja, and ask him if he remembers that decision of the Constitutional Court on pensions and damages paid after years on the burden of the RS budget because the HDZ government did not know that some things must be passed by law rather than regulation. But my colleague Lucic will return just for a moment and I will agree with you with one part of your presentation. I really am a populist, I often walk around Pula, it's my hometown, and that's why I can really be said to be a populist. But when we talk about exorcism, I didn't. When we talk about extradition, then I'm a lawyer, that's my profession, that's what I made for bread, that's something I'm going to do today when I stop doing this call again, and I know there's a difference between a few approaches to power. You don't understand it, you don't understand it, and you can't understand it. I don't think you have the capacity I was wrong, I accept the warning I'm about to get for this, you just don't have the capacity to understand it. But while I was talking about it, my dear colleague Lucic, I did not say that extradition was illegal. I was only talking about the fact that in the legal order of the democratic and orderly state, it is not allowed to confiscate property on the basis of a temporary solution which you do not have the right to appeal. That's all. And as for investments that were not possible during the time, or pardon, based on past laws and on the expropriation as it was today, I'm just going to ask you if maybe when you drove the highway to Dalmatia? Well, it was created on the basis of the powers implemented by the laws that were so far. Well... It is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How was there no investment from fellow Lucic? I'm a colleague of Lucic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40971	I'm asking you nicely don't, don't communicate from the bench, so you've all got room for replicas, once again, at the presentation of Mr. Peđa Grbina's 10 replicas, I'm asking you nicely please don't bicker at the benches. The next replica representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40972	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Comrade Grbin, I am experiencing the work of this Parliament to pass quality laws in order to solve the problems that occur at local level as quickly as possible, more effectively. I must say that units of local self-government have been long for years precisely because of the inability to implement certain projects, capitalized on the importance of public welfare, could not be realised precisely because of the bad law on expropriation. So this law, I'll agree with you maybe it's not ideal but surely a step away is exactly helping to make some projects work faster. I'm surprised by your statement because you said that you were both a lawyer and a lawyer, that you were in executive power, I'm also telling you as former head of a local self-government unit that before you go into a certain, I'm going to say empowerment or bring... certain particles or parcels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you mentioned, the pipeline had to come out of the sea on the Istrian coast, that the spatial plan of Istria County and that municipality, i.e. The city accurately defined the location. And you know that the Fažana municipality because it didn't want to build a reception station in their area, that it had to change the plan to build it later in Vodnjan where it only collected the project implementation. So I'm saying that I'm going to agree with you that maybe the Institute of Temporary Solution isn't the best solution but as a law-writer, because we executives are asking you for lawyers, here's a colleague from the SDP who said that usually leaders and lawyers usually don't go together because when you ask three lawyers, you get three different opinions. But your job is to correct the amendment with your proposal and make that law even better and even better, so that I would not give in to that left- and right-hand shooting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40973	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40974	So, your colleague Demetlika knocks on the open door. If you have looked at the last 20 minutes on the table, you have seen that three amendments have come that I have submitted which regulate exactly this part that I consider anti-constitutional, which is Article 10th, i.e. a temporary decision on the authorisation and Article 26 and 27, which regulates the way in which the compensation is determined. Therefore, the fact that some extradition procedures were not carried out is certainly on the burden of the bodies that carried them out. But the fact is also, and I am very well aware that many units of local self-government have used the exception that the problem of expropriation is so that they don't start building infrastructure facilities at all. Why? Because they were simply not willing to single out money or thought that some other projects were more politically luxuriant and would bring them political points in a much shorter period of time. So we can't blame ourselves, we can't just blame the law for the fact that the local self-government units haven't implemented anything. And I can say with considerable certainty that with not the past, not the past, but the previous law, those who did not have this way regulated temporary entry into property as had the 2014 Law could have realised projects when desired. You know about a big project in Istria, Kastyun. You know that this project was implemented under the old laws, you know it was realized because on the side of those who ran it there was will and desire and work. So when you want to, you can. But I'm glad we agree on the part where we both feel that the temporary solution to the expropriation in this way is not suggested well and imputable to the rights of ownership of individuals in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40975	Thank you. Next replica, Agent Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40976	Dear colleagues, you mentioned that the tax administration is quite unfair. And I agree when the system is such that you have to pay the tax administration's obligation then your property is overrated. Then the IRS says it's worth more than you could objectively get for it. And when you seek compensation from the state, then the tax administration reduces the value of your assets. With that, what is the key detail, that you can appeal to the tax administration's decision to whom? And that same tax administration that doesn't lead anywhere. But I'd like to tell my colleagues from HDZ, he said, from the Pleternica, he said the communists were taking and I don't know the grain from the attic, etc. I'll dare say one thing, the communists took away my family a lot of land, one house they even temporarily told us, they took away our property, but the communists took away those who had 4 houses, which had a lot of countries, which means, and they gave people who had little or nothing, while unlike the communists, HDZ is doing a reverse, reverse redistribution where it takes away like that Superhik in Alan Ford to the poor, and it gives the fat geese like Hanžekovic and Todorovic and the like, that's the difference in taking away sometimes and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40977	Thank you. We're going to the next line, representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40978	Dear Representative Grbin, while I listen to your presentations, and these exhibitions that were in the previous days, I get the impression that all laws are actually about one and the same principle, that it is about one and the same manuscript, which is the principle that profit is governed by the interests of Croatian citizens. We had a similar case yesterday at the vote, or a delay in voting on the concession law, at which point the citizens organised and rebelled, this time they haven't arrived yet, which doesn't mean they won't. So you yourself mentioned that basically even here the Constitution is being violated and the question is, how is it possible that every law goes to the harm of the citizens? And in favour of therefore of an invisible hand that seems to be above this high House itself, above the Parliament, which is therefore banks in foreign interest, banks in foreign ownership that seem to have such power, that they can, through one political structure, send to the Parliament laws that are primarily prone to one side. We also have the same case with the Executive Law, with citizens' actions, so in any case citizens today have to live in one great uncertainty, in one great uncertainty, they lose their wealth, and worst of all, these treasures don't even go into the hands of the state itself as much as they go into the hands of large capital. In view of this trend, it is no wonder that Croatia and the official country are according to the EU standard of living, and according to official reports published today, and the EU's most corrupt country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40979	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40980	Dear colleague, do you know when he'll rebel? When the first citizens begin to get solutions on the basis of which they take away their right of ownership either over their grandfatherhood or over what severe torment, savings, in some other way, they gain. After that, when they realize what this law means to them, then they will very much rebel, and to prevent that from happening, I urge you and other colleagues from your club to join me when we apply to the Constitutional Court, when you co-sign with us to press the Constitutional Court to solve this case as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40981	Thank you. The next replica of Mile Horvat's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40982	Thank you. Dear counterpart Grbin, I was also in my first reading and now said that there was a legitimate need to pass a new modern law on expropriation, much in favour of this thesis was said not to repeat, however, and then I said that this proposal had two black holes which we did not even now in this second reading, corrected. The first thing, whether anyone liked it or not, but the temporary solution cannot permanently take ownership. These are basic principles, ownership-legal relations. And that thing was supposed to be corrected after the first reading and call it a temporary solution different. Temporarily, private property cannot be taken away, private property. We're getting into the most sacred thing called private property. Besides, I'm a procedure that precedes this is quite stretching, and is questioning the possibility of manipulation. Why? The initiative is on the side of investors, it needs an elaborate, an opinion by the ministry that will appoint 3 witches and an 8-day deadline to declare whether the opposite party accepts those names as experts assessing the value of its assets. What if the man is back and isn't here? How can he be manifested within eight days about the witches who evaluate his life's assets? So it gives room for manipulation. And secondly, the investor is then registered as the full owner of the man's property, and he has no right to complain. There is no right to appeal to the introduction of investors into his possession either. It's real-legal relations and postulates they don't know. Not in theory or practice. That's why I warned you then and now I support you in this whole discussion of yours, and the two things we should have formally and formally and technically and essentially done differently, and this law would have been totally acceptable. This leaves doubt and open question and open space that in certain situations it can be manipulated at a certain stage of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40983	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40984	Dear fellow Horvat, when it was the first reading of the law, I spoke on the Internet behind you, you spoke on behalf of your party's club and now I will say what I said and then that I greatly agreed with your discussion because you pointed to a whole series of problems that this law brings. These problems that existed in the first reading of the law are to a certain extent and there should be honest, corrected. For example, Article 27 was far worse in the first reading than it was now because there was not even this possibility that the owner would make a proposal for his assessors and witches, but if he opposed it, the public authority chose the appraiser only between the three proposed by the authorisation user. This has been corrected in this case, but the problems arising from the law, these fundamental problems, are not removed and I fear that the consequences of this law will be a drastic increase in the procedures pending before administrative courts, and a drastic increase in the proceedings before the administrative courts will mean aggravating the situation in which people get justice for their dispute. It's totally unacceptable to me. The social cost of this is far greater than that of going with some minor corrections in the existing law and in those parts where it has been shown that something does not work. What did we do here? We are introducing several newspapers that, in my opinion, absolutely do not keep water from the constitutional and legal position, and in practice, will lead to huge problems in application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40985	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the replicas and reported for discussion. I'm closing the debate on this point. Proposer says there's no final presentation. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40986	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation, second reading, P.Z. No. 101. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was filed by a representative of Peja Grbin. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, with us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Josip Salapic. Please, Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40987	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Amendment one to Article 5 is not accepted, with the following explanation. The amended provisions simplify the process of ensuring evidence of the state and value of the property. The exorcism user is already in the proposal with... the location permit shall be proposed by three permanent court experts, for the assessment of real estate or three permanent judicial assessors of the relevant profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The appraisals proposed by the exporting user shall be confirmed or proposed by the previous owner within a short period of time by up to three new evaluators of the relevant real estate profession for which the assessment is carried out. After that, the public body conducting the procedure between the proposed assessors and each professional area shall select those appraisers to carry out the assessment, given the characteristics of the property subject to the authorisation. Following the above, this choice of evaluators achieves transparency in the selection of evaluators.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40988	I'm asking a colleague of the coat of arms to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40989	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow, what you said is not exactly in the law because the law states that the proposer of the authority proposes three evaluators if the user opposes it, he must propose the other three evaluators and then the public body chooses between the proposed evaluators to carry out the procedure. And then what happens? If the public legal authority chooses the appraiser proposed by the authorising officer, the subject of the expropriation will object to that assessment and we will have to work, the property owner will object to that assessment and we will need a new assessment. If an expert proposed by the owner of the property is selected, the user of the expropriation will again oppose it, we will be doing a new assessment. What's the result? The result is that in the event of a dispute we will work in each case at least two estimates. What is proposed by this amendment and, of course, the next amendment that is directly related to this is to return to a system where there is no agreement on the choice of the person who will carry out the assessment. The public-legal body is autonomously in the selection of witches who will conduct the art. Therefore, we do not impose on the public-legal body that it must choose between those experts proposed by the parties, because when it moves in that circle it is inevitable that the other side, which will not be satisfied with these skills, will not accept it. I'm telling you this based on the experience I've had and as a member of the headship, so those who have asked for privileges and as a lawyer who has represented the owners in many extradition procedures believe me this is going to work hard in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40990	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Yeah, yeah. We will vote, therefore, on an amendment which the applicant does not accept. Please vote. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Now we move on to Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40991	Amendment No 2 to Article 6 shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40992	Please, fellow coat of arms again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40993	Thank you, Mr. President. Since this related amendment is the same, of course, and since the previous amendment has not been accepted, all so that this too would not make any sense, which is why I'm not asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40994	Thank you. Now we move on to the vote on the amendment and supplemental bill... They didn't give it to me professionally. [[You can't hear it.]] There he is. Okay, nothing. Then approach your colleague Salapic, please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40995	Amendment number three to Article 10 shall not be accepted with the following reasons. The delegation procedure shall be carried out by the competent authorities for the implementation of the extradition procedure under the rules of the General Administrative Procedure Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The General Administrative Procedure Act stipulates that a party has the right to appeal to a second-degree body if the appeal is not ruled out by law. The provisional decision on the exemption shall be introduced in order to speed up the efficiency of the expropriation procedure under strictly prescribed conditions and shall ensure maximum protection of the legality of the proceedings carried out, the regulation of the possibility of the initiation of the administrative dispute and thus ensure the legal protection of the owner, in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act and Article 18(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40996	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40997	Thank you, Mr. President. The previous two amendments I submitted were amendments of a technical nature which focused on what I saw as such difficult circumstances for the implementation of the extradition procedure. This amendment, however, is essential. I won't be long. I'll make it as simple as possible what's proposed and what I'm against absolutely. So this amendment proposes to introduce one of the new ones into the Croatian legal system, which is that someone's property is taken away on the basis of a temporary solution which is not allowed to appeal. So you're going to take away someone in the land books from the property on the basis of a temporary solution that didn't become legal. Well, if it's not the twilight of the rule of law, then I really don't know what we're talking about here. Of course I insist on voting on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40998	Thank you. We are voting on an amendment which the applicant does not accept. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not received the required majority. We are now going to vote on the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on the granting and fixing of fees. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 77 for, 2 abstentions and 37 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the granting and fixing of compensation together with the amendments adopted if they were not available.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u40999	And we're going to go to four next points. I suggest we unite if you agree to discuss all four points. It is about - The proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland as part of the activities of the enhanced NATO front presence in the Republic of Poland, - a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Lithuania in Operation EUNAFOR MED SOPHIA, - a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Lithuania in Operation of the Coalition Force INHERENT RESOLVA and four points of a united debate. We're on our way to the proposer's exhibit. I'd like to ask you, Minister? ... What? ... [[You can't hear it.]] Yeah, you want to put it to a vote, then shall we have a united one? ... [[You can't hear it.]] What? ... [[You can't hear it.]] Okay. [[You can't hear it.]] What do we do? Let's put a statement on behalf of the clubs on this one for being here? Okay? For a united debate, that's right. Let me hear if there's any other club against a united debate on four points? ... We can't vote because we're not enough colleagues, Pernar. [[You can't hear it.]] We can make this decision. So, if the club representatives say they agree with this. ... Well, you're not the only one. [[Pernar, you don't understand.]] Okay. Well, you're a minority here. You're a club. As far as I can see here is the HDZ Club, the MOST Club, the HNS Club, the SDP Club, and I'm asking that more clubs, the HSS Club, the Independent Club. Just say, does anyone else object to us having a united discussion of these four points? If he doesn't, then you're the only one on behalf of his club, which means most people accept a united debate and I'll continue it as such. So I ask Minister Damir Krstičević to take his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41000	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, gentlemen of MPs and MPs at the Croatian Parliament. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia have a long tradition of participating in international operations and missions since 1999 when the first members of our Armed Forces were sent to the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Sierra Leone. Today, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are participating in two NATO Missions of Resolution Support in Afghanistan of 95 members, and KFOR in Kosovo, 33 members. Next, atalanta, one member of the European Union, and in three UN operations of 17 members in India and Pakistan, 9 members in the Western Sahara and 1 member in Lebanon. You are facing proposals today for decisions on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the next activities and operations. The participation of up to 90 members in NATO's pre-enhanced presence in the Republic of Poland, the participation of up to 200 members in NATO's activities in the ahead presence in the Republic of Lithuania, the participation of up to three members in EU Sophia's operation in the southern Central Mediterranean, and the participation of up to three members in the Inherent Resolva operation. Armed Republic of Croatia participates in operations and activities abroad for several interrelated reasons. It is of high value to participate with members of our allies and partners. With this participation, we promote interoperability, participation in training and exercises that will be difficult activities strengthened in front presence will allow for raising the level of interoperability with other allies. Then increasing the ability to interact with other allies, new technologies, methods, procedures will be available to our members, and exchanges of experiences, knowledge, skills in such an environment will allow the abilities we have undertaken to develop more significantly, faster than to work in isolation on them. Then solidarity, commitment and credibility as one of the fundamental values on the basis of which a decision was taken on a strengthened front presence was solidarity. Solidarity can have an unexpected positive effect, such as that of our candidians in Israel, which opened the door to multiple useful cooperation with the state of Israel, and certainly had a positive effect on the views of our largest strategic partner in the United States. By participating in a strengthened front presence, we also prove that we are a credible member of the alliance, as the Republic of Croatia has also supported the decision. A commitment to the common objectives of the alliance can play an important role in the event of a direct threat to our country. Loyalty to partners and allies plays an important role in bilateral or multilateral defence cooperation. Our strategic partner, the United States, greatly appreciates every contribution we make. Without this contribution, it would be difficult or impossible to implement projects such as Kaiov, helicopters or MRAPs. Any additional contribution may significantly reduce the cost of obtaining a new multi-purpose combat aircraft or provide other projects that will significantly increase the defence capabilities of our forces. This means greater security for our citizens but also a more favourable economic situation. Then the availability and sharing of intelligence, given the nature of today's security threats, primarily when it comes to terrorism, intelligence in prevention and action against networks play a crucial role. Practice shows that intelligence is shared primarily, and sometimes exclusively with reliable and credible partners. We must not forget that our country is in direct contact with the operation of all 3 Rs and radical forces and refugees, and that as a tourist destination we can be the primary goal or collateral sacrifice, if the primary goal is a group of tourists coming from a particular country with undetectable consequences on the security of our citizens and the economy. Access to intelligence can play a key role, detecting threats and prevention or limiting damage to potentially occurring events. We also build on this participation of Croatia's status and gain the influence we have the ability to formulate the policies of these organisations, both on matters of operations and on other issues of Croatian national interest. The Republic of Croatia is considering its participation in activities to strengthen its forward presence in Poland, Lithuania, primarily through the perception of the threat of our allies on the eastern wing of NATO. We want to show our allies our commitment to common defence and security, just as we expect our allies to react to our assessment when the need arises. The deployment of forces, limited sizes such as combat groups in 3 Baltic countries and in Poland cannot pose a threat to anyone. The same is an expression of solidarity and a strong message of NATO's unity and unity. Participation as part of a strengthened front presence, complemented by Croatia's ambition to build and maintain its own international credibility and responsibility, and contributes significantly to further building the political and military credibility of the Republic of Croatia within NATO. We stress that this is a mining activity where our forces will train with other partner and Allied forces, strengthening their interoperability and the ability of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to respond to security threats. Croatian decision on the participation of the operation... brings as one of 68 members of the global coalition against ISIL, which joined the coalition in September 2014. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As part of the international community, EU members, NATO cannot ignore terrorist attacks on our friends and allies with whom we share values and democratic principles. Croatia takes part in the operation... With allies in Europe, partners in the Middle East who face direct terrorist attacks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By participating in SOPHIA operations, the Republic of Croatia is involved in the EU's efforts to combat illegal migration in the Mediterranean area. The main objective of the operation is to fight the high seas smugglers. It was complemented by a broader approach to the problem of illegal migration, and additional objectives of the operation have become training of the Libyan Coast Guard and contribute to the implementation of the arms embargo along the coast of Libya. By participating in SOPHIA operations, Croatia contributes to further development and common security and defence policy of the EU, as well as to the development and ability of the EU to manage crises. The financial resources for the implementation of the proposed decisions are secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, in the division of the Ministry of the Coast. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, taking into account all of the above reasons for participating in these operations and activities, I suggest you support the decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41001	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. You will decide whether to answer each replica for yourself or to respond to all five replicas together. The first replica is representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41002	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, here are the statistical reports that Croatia has very poor exporting economic activities of its products, but that is why we have increased exports of Croatian soldiers. By this we seem to have surpassed all EU members, because as you yourself have written a small country, we have armies to send as many as 4 countries, so here goes the Croatian army to Lithuania, goes to Poland, goes to Iraq, Libya, I would like to ask you, based on which indicators you consider Russia a national danger to Croatia, given that Russia is not building military bases anywhere, especially not near Croatia, and that Russia has reduced the allocation for the military budget this year. So it reduces the money for weapons, and we don't know by which times in Croatian history we send Croatian soldiers in danger to Russia, as if we haven't learned through history that such a policy for Croatia has in no way brought benefits. We believe in the Living Wall that, in general, Croatian soldiers have nothing to do outside Croatia, and in such an action that has no justification for all statistical indicators, namely America is expanding military bases, it is America that increases the allocation for the budget and supports terrorist groups that we believe that the Croatian soldier should be on Croatian soil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41003	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41004	My dear colleague, Mr. Bunjac. I would like to say once again that the Croatian soldier brand is recognized by both his people and by his allies as professional and all this whole engagement, our normal primary, key task is security, stability in Croatia. And you can see that the Croatian Army has continued since the Homeland War and through activities it is always ready to carry out all its tasks. You've seen now and about helping civilian institutions that we're always ready here, so here's the last one and all these fires, to do your best. And that's our focus, and that's where we're fully engaged. We also have the responsibility of NATO, we are a member of the EU, we want to contribute to peace, security and stability, we want to solidarity. And in this case it is our one responsibility, one aid in this case one rotation in Lithuania, only one rotation, also one call from Poland to also want to see Croatian soldiers in Poland and we also want to respond to Poland. These two missions are one officer each, so they're not some big engagement. Once again, it is not directed against anyone, nor against Russia. Russia is our friendly country and I don't see any reason not to stay that way in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41005	Thank you. Next replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41006	Honorable representative of the Department of Defense. You said that Croatia or Western countries show this action their credibility. Well, here I'd like to ask you where this credibility is when you know that America just brought the Taliban to power in Afghanistan, so it supported terrorist groups. And what happened? After they removed secular power in Afghanistan, they said we wouldn't stop there, we'd move on, we'd go to Iraq. And then in Iraq, what did they do? The same thing, they removed secular power in 2003, and what happened? The earth fell into chaos and there was the creation of ISIL. So before the U.S. invasion of Iraq, there wasn't any gentlemen from the Moreh. And then what does America do? Again the same thing, Moammar Gaddafi Libya, the secular government, which NATO says, let's bomb Libya, let's take down secular power again and again who appears, and again terrorists like others. And those terrorists in Bengazi are decapitating US Ambassador Christopher Stevens, imagine that. And so country after country, terrorists come to power, with whose help, with whose support, who assists them, who finances them, who arms them? Well, the U.S. officials said we armed ourselves, we funded ISIL. U.S. officials recognize that as they used to be Taliban. And you know why? Because they use terrorists as useful idiots to overthrow regimes that don't suit them. So America is not against terrorism but supports it when it fits their geopolitical interests. And we, our country instead of saying, we don't want to be involved in these dirty games, we send our own army there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41007	Thank you. The next replica is representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41008	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So, a few things, I think first of all we didn't secure the funds in the budget even though you claim because it's not visible anywhere, that's first. Secondly, I am interested in somewhere in July last year, you were a representative in this House, and the Croatian Army can leave the Croatian borders only by the decision of this House and by the decision of the Croatian Parliament, and that is why we are discussing it here today and you have started your debate, here is the proposal here today. How did you feel last year as a representative in the Croatian Parliament when you read in the paper that Croatia will participate in these missions, as a nearly made decision announced by NATO Secretary-General or First Minister Kovac at the time, as a final matter where we are essentially not asked anything here. Secondly, I think that up to 200 soldiers to participate in Lithuania is a little too large for Croatia and that we should certainly participate with our partners and precisely at a solidarity and symbolic level like you said, and that certainly is not 200 soldiers because even much stronger, military stronger countries than Croatia do not participate in such numbers. And that's why I'd ask you to tell me here right now, because it says up to 200 soldiers how accurate is that number? Is that 200 soldiers, is that 199, is that 50, is that 40, or could we have participated in this mission at a symbolic level with 3, 4 soldiers as well as in these other missions? Is this mission in Lithuania really necessary and necessary for the Croatian state, or is it simply fulfilling some of the wishes of our leaders who obviously want to enlist some of the stronger NATO member states? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41009	Thank you. Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41010	Dear Representative Djujic. In relation to your question about when I was, I was a parliamentary representative and here I am today in the position of minister serving my Croatia as best I can. And as for the whole procedure in 2016, such a procedure is within NATO, we were at that meeting, I wasn't, people were from our country as well as the president, the prime minister, who was already at those meetings, we then declared that we wanted to participate. It means our willingness to be as one NATO member that we want to work with forces. In that case, so one reinforced pedestrian company has been declared. So before I do. So until I was gone. And now it's going, so the procedure, the democratic procedure that happens through the government, the government has now made a proposal and now it means you, all together, parliamentary representatives and MPs, have a responsibility in the debate, whether that decision is taken or not to make that decision, as far as our engagement in Lithuania is concerned. So there's now a system and it's that procedure, it's the Parliament that makes that decision, or all of it together. We believe that this activity is important for us, for the Croatian Army. Why? That is why, apart from focusing on Croatia, security and peace, these activities help us in the variants of interoperability, joint exercises to see processes, organizations, we are here with all other armies, too, so that we can develop Croatia's army even better and better. We've put up to 200, how dependent it will be in Lithuania on the nation's leading nation. So in this case it's Germany, if it's going to be 200, it's going to be 150, it's going to be 130, it will be, we'll see, we'll make sure it's as little as possible again and we'll do all the homework and the financial resources are secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41011	Thank you very much. Next replica, representative of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41012	Dear Minister, I'll just read you a statement and before that, a colonel. But I would like to say that out of a total of 4 multinational combat groups, the deployment of NATO's frontal presence in the United States, under the U.S., means in Poland that there will be 900 US, 150 Great Britain and 120 Romanian troops, all within the 15th Mechanized Brigade, as you know the armed forces of the Republic of Poland. One of the commanders, and you said it was a peace-loving activity, I'm looking for your comment, Colonel Steven Gwenter said, our task is to engage as a combat-ready battle, it's not a cycle of training, the goal is to prevent aggression in the Baltic and Poland, and we're fully prepared to be lethal. Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41013	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41014	Well, I mean every, distinguished representative, Mrs. Linic, every military activity is a risk, so any activity the military does, whether home or outside, mission is a risk. Here's to Afghanistan when they made their decision for 13 years, thank God, it's a risk. It's not so far, that. And we pray to the dear God, doing our best not to let that happen. As for Poland, Poland, too, this mission is in the form of peace, our contribution, solidarity with the Polish people, and we're in this mission, or we've shown readiness, and I think that this mission is Poland, there's the United States, there's Britain, and there's the possibility of up to 90, so soldiers, could be 70, could be 60, could be 50, now we're in talks with the leading nation, in this case it's the United States, Poland, to see how best. I say once again, it is not directed against anyone, we are here, we are working together within the alliance, Croatia has decided that it wants to be a member of the alliance, NATO alliance, and in that variant we must assume certain responsibilities. Here is one Slovenia, Slovenia has already left before us. They're before us, we're just leaving at the end of the year. If the Slovenians who are the same members of NATO and if others do so, I see no reason to say so, we are also not working from the position of responsibility and the security of peace building in these areas. We see that peace is not only within the limits but we must in some way be solid with other peoples. If we need it tomorrow, I believe that others would also show solidarity to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41015	Thank you very much. And another replica by Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41016	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, thank you for introducing us here after and the board here on the tide of the issue of the departure of the Armed Forces abroad. As on the board, I will repeat one thing here, from your defence minister's portfolio you've very plastically explained to us the benefits of going to the Armed Forces for the missions you're looking for and the operations you're looking for. Whether it is further military, military and defence cooperation with our allies, primarily the United States, Germany, Poland, Lithuania, whether it is interoperability between the Armed Forces. So all those things that look good from your perspective and I have to admit from mine. But this issue of sending the Armed Forces across the borders of the Republic of Croatia is a couple of excellent foreign policy issues. And in fact, foreign policy relations and how, the consequences and how they affect relations with other countries are crucial in making a decision whether or not we will let our Armed Forces cross the border. So I ask you to tell the Prime Minister that parliamentary deputies are asking the next time there is a topic of the agenda of sending our soldiers to the peace operations to come and the foreign minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, to discuss that dimension. Because we are aware that this departure of the Croatian Armed Forces will improve relations with our allies in NATO. But I would like to discuss with the foreign minister how he will influence relations with Russia, with a great global player, with a country that de facto holds if not the key and then a considerable impact on the resolution of major crises in Croatia such as the Agrokor crisis and the Sberbank which is the state bank of Russia. We also know that some neighbouring countries are buying highly sophisticated weapons systems from Russia and that Russia has also expressed interest in the Southeast Europe area. How will this situation of sending our Armed Forces affect relations with Russia? One question I'd like to discuss, I don't expect an answer from you, but please pass it on to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41017	Thank you very much. Here is the answer from Minister Krstičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41018	Well, here I am thanking the question and for commenting on the distinguished fellow parliamentary representative Klisovic. I have already said that the procedure is going, so under this procedure we used all the democratic procedures we have in Croatia, so when we announced our readiness at NATO summit, we had a meeting and the Defence Council. You know the members of the Defence Council are the President of the Republic, the prime minister, the foreign minister, the defence minister, the president of the Assembly's Defence Committee, meaning from the opposition party Mr. Igor Dragovan, together we have considered everything else that this means for the Armed Forces on the other hand and this part of the foreign-political activities and after all these discussions, unanimously at the Defence Council, they considered it unanimous, including everything that this is good for the Armed Forces, for the development of the Armed Forces and that we can also make a proposal and then, beyond that, through the Government, here you have now come from the MPs. Surely we must make sure that we are credible within NATO, and surely we must also take care of the relationship with Russia, and I think that through this part that one and the other can be done, you can also see that this cooperation with Russia and through the visit of the foreign minister, and now through the President, and also the Ambassador came to me, and I don't think that this should be questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41019	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. We move to the first debate on behalf of the Club of the Independent Lists, representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41020	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, allow me, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, to present our position regarding these decisions concerning the sending of Croatian Armed Forces to military missions outside the Republic of Croatia, some related to NATO Alliance decisions and some related to EU operations. The Republic of Croatia is a NATO member, and in this capacity it assumes obligations agreed by Member States to strengthen border protection and collective security and defence. At the NATO summit in Warsaw, in July 2016, it was concluded that the new threats and challenges of the Member States would further strengthen their presence in the Eastern Member States of the alliances, the Baltic States, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia and Poland. A concrete implementation of NATO's decisions from that summit in Warsaw is the creation of 4 combat groups composed of multinational forces, led by 4 countries in those 4 NATO members. At this summit and Croatia supported these decisions and consequently today, we are also discussing decisions on the participation of our Armed Forces in Lithuania and Poland with nearly 300 soldiers, so up to 200 in Lithuania and 90 in Poland. You can find a document on the web... of May 2017, since 9 May, so 40 days from today, which gives a transparent participation of NATO member states in these operations in the Baltic States and Poland in 4 combat groups. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It says which countries are involved, with which the strength of their military units and the type of military troops. The review document has not yet mentioned Croatia since there is no formal decision of this Croatian Parliament yet, but as we know, and as some other documents say, Croatia has already formally committed itself last year and at a defence ministers' meeting that it will participate in these military missions. But here's to getting you to know the figures actually in these military missions and this House to gain one perspective on how, in what extent and in which extent the Republic of Croatia participates in these military missions with its Armed Forces. First of all, they do not participate in them according to the data available to us by all Member States here. The following Member States do not participate among others as far as can be seen for the time being, in these military missions. Not participating: Portugal, Iceland, Denmark, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey. 9 NATO members will not participate in these NATO military missions in the Baltic and Poland according to available documents at this time. It is interesting that the countries of the Visegrad Group, therefore Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, which are together with Poland, do not participate, and therefore would even logically expect them to participate in Poland, but not according to all available documents. The participating countries are participating with different military units and the number of Armed Forces. According to data available with 300 soldiers, France and Spain, Germany and Canada with 450, Italy with 160, Romania with 120, Belgium with 100, Slovenia with 50. According to these data, it could be concluded that Croatia is a military force, according to its participation of nearly 300 soldiers. What we want to point out as a club is that we see a great disproportionateity between the size of the Croatian armed forces of our population, our area compared to other Member States far more strongly, with a far stronger military force that does not participate in these military operations. It is very unusual for me that one France and Spain give the same number of soldiers as Croatia, a country with a far greater military force. One, the United Kingdom participates in one mission in Estonia with 800 soldiers, and the other in Poland with 150. The United States with a total of 1,000 other countries with a far smaller number. Slovenia has one smaller unit of 50 soldiers and it is one unit of protection against chemical biological and radiological weapons. Therefore, according to the information available to us, which is freshly updated, Croatia will participate in these military missions with an extremely large number of soldiers. And we find it unacceptable that in this ratio as a small country we participate, that it is the fact that a number of other countries do not participate. In fact, we do not know how the decisions were made that the Republic of Croatia, which is a member of the NATO alliance, participates in our opinion disproportionately with its strength, financial capacity and number of soldiers in its armed forces. The Croatian Parliament is the most representative body to decide on war and peace, which is adopted by the National Security Strategy and the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Croatia. But in our opinion, it is placed in the position that, as a voting machine, it actually only ratifies and blesses the decisions already made earlier in the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the President of the Republic, who knows where, as part of the commitments made only by a few people. We didn't really discuss this. We should actually just formally ratify these decisions. These decisions, in our opinion, do not show why their adoption would strengthen the national security of the Republic of Croatia, why it is important that the armed forces participate in the Baltic states and Poland so explicitly. In what way will such participation of our Armed Forces be perceived negatively by Russia with which we have a slight saying of very complex relations. It seems to us that the Republic of Croatia, with three hundred soldiers, contributes disproportionately to its size and strength of the Armed Forces, in view of our participation in many other missions, as the defence minister pointed out earlier. We believe that these decisions should be more qualitatively justified and reasoned from the point of view of the national security of the Republic of Croatia, the proportionality of our participation in relation to other Member States and the impact on our overall foreign and economic relations with Russia, which these military missions consider a certain threat to their national security. Finally, the Parliament must not be a mere voting machine in making the most important decisions on national security issues. Therefore, as the Club of Representatives of the Most, we will be abstentions in the vote on those decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41021	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit. And he is the first representative of Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41022	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Podolnjak said some of the NATO and EU member states at the eastern borders of NATO and the EU do not participate in these operations. But these are foreign-political issues you will agree on why it does not participate and which message they send. The same number of soldiers you're sending to some peace operation is also an external-political issue because you're sending a message to those you're going with and those you're going for. So, does the MOST agree that today here with us should be the foreign minister so that this relevant debate that you have also encouraged can be opened here. My second comment on your presentation is that I agree with you Parliament cannot be just a voting machine that will confirm the decisions made elsewhere and once upon a time. So this decision has been cooked long in NATO and foreign policy co-creators have been involved. None of them have found it appropriate to inform at least the committees in this House about what is going on. That since we are formally making a decision here, that we know how the decision-making process is going, which is what we contribute to and how security or relations with our allies. Therefore, for me as well as for you, it is unacceptable to ignore the Parliament like this. And I don't think that's supposed to happen, because the Parliament is really just going to come down to hand-lifting. And on the other hand, what position are we currently in? How can the Parliament vote against the involvement of our soldiers in these operations when our executive power has promised everything. This would further compromise the entire state in front of the International Community and our allies. So the possibilities of the Parliament to decide are de facto minimal or non-existent which is not good and is not constitutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41023	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41024	I thank you for your replica. We agree on a lot of things. The fact is that we are caught by decisions made significantly earlier last year where you have on the NATO Alliance website that Croatia has formally committed to sending its armed forces to those military missions. So it says explicitly that the military, formally committed itself at a defence ministers' meeting in October 2016. We think it would be very important, that earlier, before these decisions, that discussions were held on committees, relevant committees of the Croatian Parliament, in particular on the Defence Committee, on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where individual representatives and the Clubs of Representatives could be introduced in time and actually give prior consent to such decisions made by representatives of the executive government, rather than being found now by the situation, that, as you pointed out, we are now voting against or abstention, and that the senior officials of the Republic have in some way committed themselves to the bodies of the NATO Alliance. In fact, this should not have happened and the fact is that when we look at all the figures and all of us consider that these decisions about us are not well explained and that in any case, it is not qualitatively presented how the decision-making of these decisions will reflect on the overall foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia and our national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41025	Thank you. Next replica, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41026	Thank you very much. The largest or one of the major troops on the border with Russia goes Croatian soldier... We're acting like a force, of course. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our policies have always been added throughout history and we have always been cannon meat, in history, only in the Homeland War at a community where it fought for an independent Republic of Croatia, and it is a huge merit of this generation. However, to be courted without the highest body of anyone and for any reason, to engage in conflicts with Russia or Belarus, anyone, for any reason, I will not be abstention of professors, but against. The Croatian soldier can't be just cannon meat, the Croatian soldier is dressed, the minister pointed out, the Croatian soldier is appreciated in the world, but he can't because of one's services and counterservices, anyone's exclusively cannon meat. This Parliament, committees, bodies and this people must know why the largest number of Croatian soldiers is going proportionally to the number of inhabitants, to the economic picture, to NATO obligations, we see that the President of the United States is new, quite different from they have been sent so far. What will be all the influence, where will be the role of Croatian and Croatian soldiers? Will thousands of boys be at risk or will we know how to protect Croatian soldiers and our economic potentials? At this point, we're not aware that in this ratio we're giving the number of soldiers in proportion to other forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41027	I thank you for your replica. We agree on a lot of things. The fact is that we are caught by decisions made significantly earlier last year where you have on the NATO Alliance website that Croatia has formally committed to sending its armed forces to those military missions. So it says explicitly that the military, formally committed itself at a defence ministers' meeting in October 2016. We think it would be very important, that earlier, before these decisions, that discussions were held on committees, relevant committees of the Croatian Parliament, in particular on the Defence Committee, on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where individual representatives and the Clubs of Representatives could be introduced in time and actually give prior consent to such decisions made by representatives of the executive government, rather than being found now by the situation, that, as you pointed out, we are now voting against or abstention, and that the senior officials of the Republic have in some way committed themselves to the bodies of the NATO Alliance. In fact, this should not have happened and the fact is that when we look at all the figures and all of us consider that these decisions about us are not well explained and that in any case, it is not qualitatively presented how the decision-making of these decisions will reflect on the overall foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia and our national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41028	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41029	Col. Bulj, exactly what concerns us, is this disproportionate between the number of soldiers proposed to refer to those military missions and the total of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, compared to other NATO members. I'm afraid we're going to send one wrong and wrong message, that we care very much, with as many of our soldiers participating in these military missions as possible. Because when you give the same number of soldiers as one France and Spain, what is actually the political message of such a decision? That one Croatia that has more than 10 times less inhabitants than France and that we do not compare our armed forces gives equal numbers of soldiers. I think it's the wrong political decision. If we are obliged as a Member State to participate in military missions, of course we have certain obligations that we must respect. But for example, our neighbours of the Slovenians refer 50 soldiers to one unit in charge of anti-biological chemical activity. So, one humble military unit of 50 soldiers. On the contrary, we're sending very strong military units, and it even seems to me that we're sending a multi-occupied rocket launcher unit into the operation in Poland. It seems to me that it is a very powerful military message and a political message when you send such a strong military unit to Poland. I think we should have come a long way earlier, soberer and more rationally to make these decisions, not to be put before the final act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41030	Thank you. And another replica, representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41031	Dear colleague Podolnjak, you have asked three extremely important questions, but your comment is yes, or your answers to these three important questions seem entirely wrong. So first question why does Croatia participate and other members do not? And that five or nine, how many of them did you list, which is, why is such a large number of soldiers and what is the role of the Croatian Parliament? Today to ask this Minister Krstic, it seems completely in vain, foolish, he was not a minister when he was meeting in Warsaw when Croatia accepted the obligation. But the Bridge was in government when Buljevic was a minister, so why didn't you rebel? But today you're saying you're going to vote neutral. Then where were you? You know, it's late today, we've accepted our commitment, and we have to execute it, if we're going to be a credible country. As for the number of soldiers here, he would agree with you that he should be symbolic, symbolic. Yes, we have an obligation, we are a NATO member and the SDP club will refer the amendment in this regard and we now announce to the ministers that it is a symbolic number of soldiers. Let our flag be there, that's enough. The role of Parliament, this is a late debate. We should have discussed this before Minister Buljevic went to Warsaw for a summit and given him instructions as a Parliament because we make a decision as a Parliament. But Mr. Podoljnjak, why didn't you insist in the government that that's how it is then so that we can discuss it before Minister Buljevic takes the responsibility. But it seems to me that both the number of soldiers and... and such a large number of soldiers, an unwarranted number of soldiers stems from a single wish by the President of the Republic as the Supreme Commander who certainly gave instructions to the then Minister of Defence, the Prime Minister of the then and present to be important. Unnecessary And that it's enough to take responsibility without having to act important. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41032	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41033	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. When you mentioned a formal commitment that Croatia would participate in these military missions, you listed Warsaw. So then a decision was made at a summit in Warsaw, but it was a principled decision that NATO would have those military missions in certain countries. But formally, the defence ministers of the Member States confirmed the participation of their countries' military units at a meeting that was held on 26 October 2016 and according to an article I found on the web, then the defence ministers confirmed the participation of their countries' units in the battle groups of the 4 fighting forces. The participation of Albania, Italy, Poland, Slovenia, Belgium, Croatia, France, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Denmark and France are also confirmed here, but Denmark is not yet formal. Therefore, if the decision was made since 26 October 2016, then I suppose the decision was made there by the current minister Krsticevic. This can eventually be confirmed by him, but I can tell you that we at the Representatives' Club were not familiar with that decision, we had no officials at the Ministry of Defense or such a decision was communicated to the parliamentary bodies or in any other way. So we had no knowledge of such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41034	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club, representative Ivan Pernar. I'm sorry it's wrong here, I've been watching this, not up here. Excuse me, colleague Pernar. Representative Josip Djakic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41035	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Defence. So the HDZ Club supports all of these four proposals on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Lithuania as part of NATO's enhanced ahead presence in the Republic of Lithuania, in the Republic of Poland and in the SOPHIA operation, as well as in the operation and participation of members of the Armed Forces in INHEREND RESOLVE operation. All this suggests that the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Germany as part of a battle group led by the Federal Republic of Germany with up to 200 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Lithuania will be proposed. As the most concrete form of strengthening collective deterrence and defence of the alliance, the decision to establish NATO's front presence in allies on the eastern wing of the alliance is a strong message of community, unity of the Member States and the improvement of transatlantic ties. This should take into account the fact that strengthening the eastern presence of only one segment of overall strengthening, deterrence and defence is in line with Allied policies on preparedness to respond to all threats. A concrete implementation of the strengthening of the forward presence is carried out through the deployment of a total of four battle groups of Allied forces on a rotating basis in countries in the eastern part of the alliance, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Poland. The four battle groups will be composed of multinational Allied forces led by four leading states, which are Canada, the Republic of Latvia, the Federal Republic of Germany in the Republic of Lithuania, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the Republic of Estonia and the United States in the Republic of Poland. The Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Poland supported the decisions to strengthen the presence of alliances in the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Poland and, accordingly, at the NATO summit in Warsaw, announced the intention of contributing to a mechanised walking hour in this context, as well as coordination with the Federal Republic of Germany, the intention of moving on foot-and-mouthed satins, including fighting armored vehicles within the German combat group in the Republic of Lithuania. In addition to the armed forces of the Federal Republic of Germany, we will be part of the armed forces of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, the Kingdom of Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the French Republic and the Republic of Lithuania. Participation in the enhanced front presence is complementary with the ambitions of the Republic of Croatia in building and maintaining its own international credibility and responsibility and contributes significantly to further building the role of the Republic of Croatia within NATO as well as increasing the interoperability of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the armed forces of other NATO members. In this second operation in the Republic of Poland involving up to 90 participants, members of the Armed Forces, it is clear to say that Croatia also supported this at the Warsaw summit, it supported the decision to strengthen the presence of alliances in the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia and other countries. The host of the Republic of Poland and the United States as a leading nation in the leading group requested the participation of a unit of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Battles of single multi-state rocket launchers, which would be part of a multinational battle group led by the United States in the Republic of Poland. In addition to the US Armed Forces, the task force will also be part of the United Kingdom's armed forces and Northern Ireland, Romania, and the Republic of Poland as host countries. Participation as part of the increased forward presence is complementary and ambition, is complementary with the ambition of the Republic of Croatia to build and maintain its own international credibility and agreement and contributes significantly to further building the role of the Republic of Croatia within NATO alliances, as well as to increasing the interoperability of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the armed forces of other NATO members. This is where these 90 members of the Armed Forces are proposed, and I think it is also a good activity carried out by the Republic of Croatia and shows that there are both good and strong and modern armies, as well as members who have brought out the Homeland War and who are the follow-up of the winning army, and that they can contribute to further establishing peace but to eliminating all threats that lie ahead of the Armed Forces or multinational forces deployed in that area. The participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is also useful from the point of view of the acquisition of practical knowledge and experience and represents a concrete contribution to one of the long-term objectives of the EU's common foreign and security policy, which is to support peace and security. It is proposed that the Republic of Croatia participates in Operation Sofia of the EU with three members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in 2017, in accordance with the possibilities and interests of the Republic of Croatia. The objective of Operation Sofia is to make systematic efforts to identify and disable vessels as well as other funds suspected of being used by migrant smugglers. In addition to curbing illegal migration, Operation Sofia is an important contribution from the EU to combating instability in the southern Mediterranean and in June 2016, the mandate of Operation Sofia was extended with two new UN Security Council support tasks. It is the tasks of training the Libyan Coast Guard and the Navy and contributes to the implementation of the UN arms embargo on the high seas along the coast of Libya. Twenty-five EU member states are currently involved in the implementation of Operation Sofia. And this last one, supported by the Republic of Croatia, has so far joined the coalition with more than 60 state and organisation partners and has contributed to efforts to combat ISIL, including participation in air strikes, weapons donations, training and humanitarian assistance, and similar to those of the US coalition in the EU, as well as all the EU and all other Member States, except Malta, as well as all the countries of Croatia's environments, Albania, Montenegro, Kosovo, Macedonia, Serbia, except BiH. In order to defeat the Islamic State and military in Iraq and Syria, combined joint forces called Command joint task force have been organised. The coalition forces carry out their task of destroying the Islamic state thoroughly in co-operation with regional partners, maintain the unwavering determination and deep commitment of the United States and partner states to eliminate the threat posed by the Islamic State terrorist group to Iraq, the Middle East and the International Community as a whole. More than 30 countries formally participate in Operation Inherent Resolve and each contributes in its own way to the fight against the Islamic State. Some members contribute to weapons, ammunition, equipment, training or sending military advisors on the ground. The contribution other than military includes other areas such as preventing the financing of the Islamic State, revealing its true nature, providing humanitarian assistance to the population affected by conflicts, etc. An operation involving our three members includes a campaign in Iraq and Syria, the purpose of the operation is to eliminate ISIL terrorist groups and the threats that ISIL poses not only in Iraq and the region, but also in Europe as a wider international community. The operation is under the command of an American general with three stars, and the main command is in Kuwait. The HDZ Club supports all these proposed activities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, believing that our soldiers are extremely and courageous and well-trained and we believe that all alive and healthy from these operations will return as well as those who will replace them at certain times, we believe that such a strong and most complete form of strengthening collective deterrence and defence is certainly welcome at times when there are certain doubts about the possibility of intervention of certain forces on allied and friendly countries. Of course, we must all think together that both the EU and all NATO members are obliged and mandatory common defences throughout the territory of all allies. Once again, the HDZ Club supports sending our forces to all these missions as it has done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41036	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit, the first representative is Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41037	Thank you, dear colleague Djakic, for your presentation which was very exhaustive and which pointed to procedures that must be monitored and applied to allow Croatia to have its Armed Forces outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So, once again, under the material, the government or the minister can demonstrate the intention of sending the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia abroad. He's showing intent. And there is a previous agreement between the President of the Republic and this House as it stands in the Croatian Constitution, deciding whether the Croatian Army will be deployed outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So let's stop this manipulation, with some false arguments to say some Americans with "fake news". Secondly, let us not be afraid to consume obligations and rights that stem from Croatia's membership in international organisations, as well as from the NATO alliance. That's what other countries do. Here, we heard both Germany and France. Is Croatia in the "nord Straam"? Could Croatia be in the north flow? No, the North Stream, Russia, Germany, France, the Netherlands. Croatia is not in it, and Germany is. And Germany sends it to the border, specifically in Poland. Is that a problem? It's not a problem. We want good relations with Russia, developed relationships, but we're a member of the so-called The Western world, members of the NATO Alliance, the EU and other organisations and we are actively using our membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41038	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41039	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Kovac, you've made it very clear that every fear has been removed. I've made it clear here what kind of troops they're dealing with, as a whole, are the best and act in the composition of international forces. This walking, pedestrianly mechanized company certainly works best in its full composition with all its armored vehicles and combatants as well as the people. The scattered would certainly not mean any power nor would be operational and usable properly. So is the battle of multi-tube rocket launchers. It is a unit of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which is a support to the infantry, which is really for destroying the living enemy forces. If it is to be used, it is a great power of combat and I believe that only as such and not as individual rocket self-drivers means nothing, but the battle is still a force that can be participated and that can be seen by the overall forces of the NATO alliance, which have been deployed, contributes to the fact that those who have some potential evil intentions are warned that they will not so easily achieve their imagined goals. Likewise in the Croatian Army's liberation operations, it was also when we showed strength, exercise, and determination, then there was victory. This time you're asking for a distraction from what's on the pier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41040	Thank you. And another replica by Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41041	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Djakic, you have given us some basic facts about all the operations proposed to send the Croatian army. But you haven't given us a position, your party's position on the numbers being sent. So, given that these are numbers greater than we currently have our troops out of the country in peacekeeping operations and missions and given that this is important disproportionate to other NATO or EU members of our size or the size of our Armed Forces. Do you think this is a good number or that Croatia should participate on one symbolic level in showing commitment to the alliance and not go with such a large number as is a great cost. I would not want the financing of our army's international activities to reflect the modernisation of the military, reflecting the living conditions of troops in the Republic of Croatia because these were the main arguments we used. I used them to increase the defence ministry's budget. We want the Croatian army well equipped, well trained and soldiers to live under human conditions. If we have money, of course, we will participate in operations that we want to participate in. But the question is what number should be involved in order not to overburden the budget and reduce these other important activities of the Croatian Army within our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41042	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41043	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Klisovic, I've already answered this question of yours and colleagues to Kovac, it was almost the same, but I'll repeat it. So this number, the predicted number of soldiers, corresponds to the composition of the company or the battle, and as a whole, they can best act at given times and needs. So you don't need to be afraid about what happens with financial resources, but you better think about this way how the whole of certain multinational forces works best. Dispersion or symbolism in a tenth or a half would certainly mean nothing on the international agenda. Strengthening the international plan of the Republic of Croatia and through these activities, but also training Croatian soldiers with international forces is certainly welcome and certainly has a well-designed vision of why so. Believe me, I believe that only these forces in this part of the eastern wings in which the Republic of Croatia participate will contribute to further strengthening our position both in the NATO alliance and in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41044	Thank you. Here we are now moving on to the House of Representatives of the Living Wall representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41045	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I've been thinking long enough to tell you. I've come to the conclusion that nothing I tell you will change your attitude. Your views have already been adopted in advance, i.e. Your decisions and your opinions are not the result of you being witnessed in something. So, you've seen some facts or a series of indications and then you've reached a conclusion, rather than your conclusion and the Priory soldiers will be sent, America is asking for it, we're in it. And then a second logical question arises, and that's why this assembly debate if the advance decision was made that the soldiers would be sent? We must warn that America, or NATO members, are not credible in the fight against terrorism. I'm just going to give you some examples that I've mentioned before. In Afghanistan, the Americans support the Taliban, bearded mujahedine, comes the one who recently passed away fast there and tells them that God is on their page and similar flossules to electrify them in the fight against the Soviets. And then these Taliban come to power, they start doing crimes. The same thing in Iraq, so America's coming down there, tearing down one power, and then these famous mujahedins show up in Iraq where they weren't there, and they're in ISIL shape. There was no ISIL before the Americans appeared in Iraq. There comes Albak Dadi and the campaign of terror, a terror campaign, one of the first victims of which will be Americans, American citizens who are decapitated. Yes, and in the end, this same ISIL will deprive Tomislav Salopek of our citizen's head in Sinai. ISIL that didn't exist until the Americans arrived in Iraq. And then what happens? Then this same America supports terrorist groups in Libya, and in fact it ruins Gaddafi with power, arguing that, falsely of course, that the new government that is installed by the West, that power similar to the Taliban will be better than that of the previous one. And what's going on? What Gaddafi warned about is happening. And what did Gaddafi say? If you bring Libya down, there will be an attack by refugees in Europe, that's what Gaddafi was saying. We Libyans, Libya are defending mass immigration in Europe. But what does NATO say? NATO says you let Gaddafi know what you're talking about, we'll get you out of here. And I say terrorists are being brought to power, there's been a refugee crisis. So what does America say? Now, so first we took down the Taliban, i.e. Bringing them to power, now they've been torn down for 15 years without any results, then in Iraq the same thing. They're destroying one regime, bringing Islamists to power, and that's explained by Syrian President Assad how hypocritical America is. So the moment we cross the Iraqi-Syrian border, those same ISILs are no longer American enemies. Why? Because when ISIL destroys the Syrian power of President al-Assad, then ISIL and America have the same goal – moving Assad. It reminded me of the moment when the SDP and HDZ together brought down Boza Petrova as Parliament president. There was no Božo Petrov in connection with either the HDZ or the SDP, or the common enemy to both HDZ and the SDP, and there were two major parties agreeing that Bozo Petrova would move away, only because he is their common enemy. So the same way in geopoliticalism is working America. Then what's going on? These Syrian “rebels ” who are essentially the same extremists are also supported by Israel. Why would Israel support radical jihadists in Syria? Well, because the aim is to tear up the Syrian state. Weakening the enemy is a benefit to Israel. And then you see that the same coalition is part of Saudi Arabia, which represents one radical, let's say Wabian, Tekphirian, let's call it, I won't say Islamic, because it's a full-scale extreme version of Islam, so Saudi Arabia is part of the coalition, Israel, which is a Jewish state by definition that has been pushing the Arabs since 1948, and they've been pressured before by the Americas that are sodoms and gomorrahs. So it's connected the Jewish state, the radical Wahhabi, who believe women can't drive a car, and the American government. They were linked by the unholy interest of geopolitical and that is the rule of world resources. So the goal was to capture resources, oil under the control of America and its allies, and at the same time everyone who opposes such a vision, let's call it the new world order, just get them out of the race. That's why Gaddafi was removed, because he wasn't part of that plan. The Iraqi regime was also removed with that goal, but the Syrian government tried to remove the same. And now what's going on? America has committed one terrible war crime in Kuwait, and I don't know if you know that when peace was signed, or examples of the Iraqi government and the UN, the Iraqi army began its retreat from Kuwait. And instead of having that retreat happen in peace, America has decided the army to withdraw, which is a violation of international law of war, bombing out, and it's called... The highway of death, there were hundreds of Iraqis killed and everyone else leaving Kuwait at the time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what's interesting is that America used poor uranium. I don't know if you're aware of how toxic this is and how many malformed children are born in Iraq today, how many leukemias, etc., etc., precisely because of the poored uranium. Because the U.S. government uses poor uranium. And now what's going on? In this one mission of madness in Kuwait, we send our soldiers, To God's sakes to fight terrorists. And I ask you ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, were there any terrorists in Iraq before the appearance before the American invasion? It's not. There was no ISIL, so America created ISIL. I was shocked when I saw American officials, when they say one after another, that America created ISIL, the American allies, that ISIL is an instrument for destroying other countries that are insubordination, etc. The question is, if it's clear that America's policy in the Middle East isn't fair, it's not good for people, because it's also for American cohesionism that remains? They remain a broken state, number one, and people are destroyed, and there is no peace and you have a flood of terrorism, which is the legacy of the U.S. government in all the countries of the Middle East where it took part. Look wherever they pushed their dirty fingers, people got hurt and of course we're like the Living Wall, we're against sending our soldiers to Kuwait, we're opposed to sending our troops to Libya, and here's why. Each NATO member has the opportunity to veto a NATO decision. So if Croatia wanted to, it could veto Libya's decision to bomb itself. And today in Libya would there be terrorists, would there be a need to fight terrorism in Libya? No, you wouldn't. Would there be a refugee crisis? No, you wouldn't. But it's that trick. Although they say we're working together, we don't really decide anything. Anyway, we're just meeting the wishes and needs of foreign bosses. Boss like Donald Trump. It's him now. And we put our foreign policy into the hands of people as unbalanced as Trump. So if Trump says tomorrow I don't know, take off your pants, you're gonna take off your pants and you're not gonna ask why your pants are off or maybe it's not good. No, you'll do it. Why? Because it's our responsibility. Why is that our obligation? Because we're part of that NATO pact. And now what's going on? The same NATO Pact, which runs the economic enslavement policy of the entire Balkan peninsula, sees that all countries have failed more or less, which have accepted their form of monetary regime, which is essentially in the Bulgarian Currency Committee, in the BiH, Serbia, and that poverty is living in Croatia and there is no indication that this poverty will ever be released. And then America pushes Ukraine into conflict with Russia. The only thing Russia asked Ukraine to do was not join NATO. They said don't go into NATO and we don't have a problem with you. But America has found its allies in Ukraine who have decided to drag Ukraine into NATO at a price, because look at the Ukrainian Russians, they know that NATO is not a friend of Russia. They said, you Ukrainians go to NATO, you go without us. And it means instead of living together in one country, which can at least be neutral, the Ukrainian government has decided to commit to NATO, resulting in the collapse of the country. You know the same recipe before Ukraine led in a similar way? The Georgians, too, the Russians told them don't be crazy, it's a dead end to you, don't go to NATO, it won't be good for Georgia, but the Georgian government, or that American educated... if I'm not mistaken, I'm named, he said no, we're going to NATO. And then, of course, the Russians slip his chair, the situation goes out of control, and part of Georgia splits from Georgia. And what's the trick? The trick is that a country could enter NATO is important that I say so without territorial disputes, there must not be a country in war or conflict entering NATO. And the Russians knew that if only one part of Georgia was removed or only one part of Ukraine the whole country would be prevented, it would not be able to go to NATO. And that's what happened. And now what's going on? Instead of trying to act on the Ukrainian government to give up that path, NATO's route to the American road that brought them into conflict with Russia and to smooth out relations with Russia, simply the West tightens its rhetoric and says we will now send soldiers to the Russian border. Of course, that mission has no end because that Russian threat they're talking about, and I was saying that our citizens are more afraid of Hanžekovic than the Russians, they'll never stop, paranoia will always spread. And basically what's going on? It happens, ladies and gentlemen, that we send hundreds of our soldiers beyond the borders of our country, that they can't be with their families, with their wives and children, and that is even worse than anything we are involved in geopoliticals that have no use for themselves. So what does Croatia have to do with selling oil for dollars? Nothing. The goal of the US government, the goal of those who rule federal reserves that are a private bank and not a central bank, is to sell oil for dollars, that's the Rothschild family's goal. Why would Croatia fight for the Rothschild family goals, what good do we have from them? See, that's the trick I'm talking about. So even though you will all say here in the House that you are sworn in honor and whatever, that you will serve the Croatian people and the Croatian state, in the end you are all putting yourself or turning yourself into an extended hand of the Rothschild family that produces wars, crises around the world just to sell oil for dollars, because since the gold cover of the dollar has been lifted, there is no more cover in anything but oil. So the gold cover has been replaced in a way that oil is sold for dollars and then everyone who needs oil needs dollars. And then the whole world depends on American dollars. That's to talk. And unfortunately, I know that you know yourself that the goal of America in the Middle East is not peace and the fight against terrorism because political politics has led to everything but peace and the disappearance of terrorists. It led to the creation of terrorists and unrest. But you will anyway if they tell you tomorrow we're going to bomb Iran, you know what you're going to say to the gentlemen of HDZ and the SDP and the Most you'll say, so that's our obligation we're part of NATO. You won't ask yourself if it's right, and that's unfortunate because you gave up your own consciences and your own judgments, and the benefit of society from your decision is nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41046	Thank you. We have one replica of representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41047	Thank you, Madam Vice President. He's a colleague of Pernar's. I've already told my replica minister that which is my problem with this. My problem is that I feel very stupid today as an agent who is discussing a decision that has already been made and which has already been announced as ready and that I know that Parliament will not change anything today and that this is just a formal decision-making process. And secondly, I believe that perhaps 200 soldiers, not perhaps but certainly, are too much of a figure in relation to the Croatian position in NATO that we are sending up, only for the reason that our leaders, or the president and prime minister, would be courting the Americans or Trump, and all that in vain. Because Trump himself has announced that he is not sure how much more America will participate in NATO because America no longer wants to be NATO's chief financier. And at the last meeting he has just sent a message that Croatia is under-separating funds for NATO's weapons and defence, and even now we are likely to start spending more money on defence in the spirit of policy so far. And now, let's just say you have a situation today that we don't have money for medicine for children, but we're going to have money for new weapons and new weapons for someone else's interests. But basically what prompted me to the replica is exactly what you ended up with your present-day exposure, which is when you said that SDP and HDZ together brought down Boza Petrova and that it was one unprincipled coalition, and when you said now the same thing that SDP and HDZ co-operate together, or you want to suggest that we are all the same, and that the only living wall is the clean and the right side. And today, in the city of Rijeka, the Living Wall entered the coalition with HDZ and began the destruction of Private Obersnel because Vojko Obersnel was your common enemy. The day before yesterday, you brought down the Primorje-Gorski County Assembly, today you brought down the HDZ City Council of Rijeka together with the Most City Council by slowly entering this society. I wouldn't be surprised if you voted on Friday to send our soldiers on all these missions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41048	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41049	Mr. Djujic, we could discuss the situation at the City Council in Rijeka but it's not a topic. But I will return to the situation concerning this war initiative. I asked you from the SDP why you support sending soldiers. I didn't get a reasonable answer, all your SDP colleagues are saying we're a NATO member, says America and that's it. These are your reasons. So you don't explain with arguments, it's the right move, it's a wise act, humanity will benefit from that. No, simply because that's what NATO says, that's what America says, because it's clear that when we say NATO speaks, it's actually Donald Trump, says America, so don't speak Montenegrin that prime minister, the president when Trump pushed him and said what you're going to be pushing there. So it does not decide Montenegro or Colinda which I think Croatia, those are her words, I was shocked when she said that Croatia, to push as close to Trump as possible, so that Croatia will not be marginalized. So she is fighting for respect for our country by pushing in common photos, and in this way as Croatia is not on the margins. That one policy of sly is one moral septic pit, that's one bottom. And what's important to say, what's important to say is that unfortunately both the MOST and you from the SDP and colleagues from the HDZ will all vote for sending soldiers, excuse me, the MOST said they'll be restrained even though this is what I think they're for. And I told you from the SDP to be against and let your SDSS colleagues vote to send soldiers to Russia, let them be that language on the scale that they would vote for, but unfortunately you didn't want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41050	Thank you very much. On behalf of SDP representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41051	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to begin the presentation on behalf of the SDP club by finding that Croatia still does not have one strategy to send armed forces but also civil forces as police. in retirement operations and missions. I have already asked several times for a meeting to be held in the Committee on Foreign Policy, together with the Defence Committee on the subject in order to really define the objectives of participation in international operations and international missions. The situation as we have at present is the complete dispersion of individual soldiers in various missions of one, two, three, where they say Mr. Djakic does not make any special difference. And Croatia does not make any special foreign policy or other points there. Thus, this deheaded sending soldiers into various international operations really doesn't make sense. We have an option and, of course, we would have to have the option of sovereignly deciding where to send our army. But then here we can go further as we have gone into various operations by one soldier, let the Croatian flag grow without actually making a more significant contribution. Or we can choose a strategic partner, such as Germany, America or someone with whom we want to continue to develop military and defence ties a little more closely, negotiate the training of our soldiers, negotiate the modernisation of our armed forces by sophisticated technique under favourable conditions. So all of this can be part of a common concept of peace operations and peacekeeping missions. But we don't have it yet, and I think it's one task standing before the government, and I'd like the Parliament to include it, especially these two committees that I've designated as relevant, without that going on like this. And that is, the reactive policy of the Croatian government will continue. So when someone is looking for something, then the Croatian government is just beginning to think whether they will send or not. I'd love to, and it's 25 years, so, if we understand each other, it didn't start with this government now, I'd like it to be a sovereign Croatian policy, that we know why we're sending our army somewhere and what our goals are. Every proposal that comes to the Parliament, and so do those about sending the Armed Forces across the border, has its structure. In that structure, one part of number 3 is the reasons and objectives of making this decision. In this case these reasons and objectives are lagging behind, they are not clearly indicated, as is one external-political analysis that is actually happening and that Croatia should achieve in these 4 places where we intend to send our army. Therefore, for me, an unforgivable part of the decision proposed to send the Armed Forces across the border clearly indicates the foreign policy objectives that the Republic of Croatia achieves by sending the Armed Forces. So I'm not talking about military or defence policy objectives, that's something else. I also have to speak out loud and clear on behalf of the SDP club here and show our club's dissatisfaction with the fact that the Parliament has been brought really into the position of the voting machine, that it has not participated in such decisions or been informed in good time. Former counterpart Kovac said the foreign minister is expressing his intention and not binding the country but obliging the parliament to make a formal decision. But that is true, but the foreign minister as well as the Prime Minister and the state at the summits participates in making NATO's formal decisions without the parliament's prior approval. Once a formal decision is made in NATO and Croatia is part of the decision and the top executive officials plus the president who is not the country's executive authority to make the decision that the Parliament does afterwards? It is simple that the prime minister must gather the majority so as not to compromise the country abroad, the majority that will vote on the government's proposed decision. We have had the same problem with European affairs, but we know that the Parliament has passed a Law on the Co-operation of the Government and the Parliament on European Affairs and that before the Minister goes to the Council of Ministers in the EU on various topics, we are given information on the views of the Government who want to be presented at a meeting of ministers in Brussels and then the representatives have the opportunity to say what they think about it. With NATO, we do not have such a situation, and therefore it is no wonder that today's MPs feel bad when they have to approve a decision they have not been formally informed of but were only informed through the media. And NATO members are and NATO decisions aren't decisions of someone out there in Brussels, they're decisions of the Republic of Croatia. We wanted to sit at that table just to make decisions and co-determine on it. Now we're sitting down and when we decide then we have a duty to respect those decisions. And when we say what there is for Croatia to join NATO, whether it is a slogan towards America, everyone has any direction or good faith in this country, they will say of course not. We have the same right to say not if something doesn't like us, like America does. On the other hand, if we want to be a credible ally, then we can't just call an alliance to help when we need it. When hammered with weapons at Croatian borders, when we feel insecurity or that certain acts of war, aggression or something else might occur. Croatia must, like all other members of the alliance, meet all its obligations crediblely and thus invest in its security. Yes, and we must absolutely understand once and for all, that Croatian soldiers who go across the borders of this country are actually going to invest in Croatian security. That they don't go like cannon meat. We see how many dead soldiers return to other NATO members, but their public doesn't ask these questions because they know their lives aren't lost. Life lost beyond our country's borders and for our country's safety, is certainly an investment in our security. Because the sources of instability need to be beaten and dealt with where they arise or may arise. Whether it's Syria, whether it's Afghanistan or a possible border with Russia. Therefore, this dilemma should not be. NATO is not a gardening club to come and pick the rose you like. In order to expect others to help you, you simply have to help them when we make a decision together. As for the financing of operations like this, we have said that we predict the departure of more people than we currently have anywhere in the world. It's really one financial cost, I am for soldiers going out of the country, for these reasons that I mentioned, and additionally for those reasons that the minister said, interoperability of sympathies with other armies, additional experiences, it's all very, very useful. But the worst thing that can happen to us, we go into one operation and then we start retreating because there's not enough money to continue to be present in such peace operations. Now that wouldn't want to happen, just as much as you wouldn't want to happen if all our plans, modernising the Armed Forces, buying new equipment, and we talked about recent planes, which are very expensive, as well as training the complete personele that goes along with the planes, came to the question why they're going to spend money on other activities like these. The priority must certainly be Armed Forces, soldier status, equipment, modernisation, military training which can respond in the best possible way at all times, in any threat to our country's national security, and then if we have financial forces, we should certainly send them to peace operations where we contribute to international peace and further strengthen the security of the Republic of Croatia. But it certainly must be taken into account in the planning of finances, we know that the defence ministry's budget is too small, that the military needs are significantly greater, that it is certainly not welcome to shut down certain military tribes, and all of this must be put into such a context. In this context we also put the question of the number of troops leaving, you told us that it would be one company in Lithuania, well, one company means some 90 soldiers, what is important to notice, they go on a rotation of 7 months and then return to Croatia. So, what's the cost of sending people to northern Europe for 7 months and then just stabilising, bringing them back? I still do not understand the logic of such an army sending without rotation while the rotation is foreseen in Poland. Because it's actually an expensive way to go to some military operation to be seven months, figure out, just connect with everyone, establish some normal relationships, and you'll come back after that. It doesn't seem to me to end up politically mature, and I'd like to hear the reasons for just one rotation of those people. Operations in the Mediterranean, the European SOPHIA Operation is very important given the risks of security that come from illegal migration and we are not just talking about people who come because they emigrate from Africa instability and certain war or other or other events, here we are talking about people who are running from climate change primarily, which is very neglected, because it is simply not as attractive as you are talking about major conflicts. Many intelligence services, including Austria's ability to read in our media, talk about that 15 million people are preparing for Europe, most of them actually because they can't continue living in their dwellings because climate change has threatened to the extent that, for example, more agriculture can't function, the industry can't function, in some countries for two, three years, rain hasn't fallen, and people are about to emigrate, they're economic immigrants, but through illegal networks or terrorist networks that go well through Libya. Any contribution to security and combating such a situation, the work of illegal networks pushing migrants towards Europe, is welcome and Croatia must certainly fit in and make its contribution. As for the fight against terrorism, today we settled in a global coalition against terrorism, already at the time there was criticism at the expense of the government of Milanovic who did so, thus putting Croatia at greater risk, that a terrorist act would be launched in the country, or put us on the list of targets of terrorist organisations. Fortunately, such a terrorist act has not happened in Croatia yet, I hope it will not happen, and Croatia must be a participant in the anti-terrorism coalition because it is one real threat that affects us individually as well as our nation and country as a whole. But we've never sent our members of the Armed Forces to any type of combat operation before, I've seen that up to 3 people sent here to Kuwait, that it's not going to be in the fighting work, but at headquarters, but I still want to warn you that we're doing one step that we haven't done before. So far, we have been primarily in political and financial terms supporting the anti-terrorism coalition and stabilising the situation in the area itself, the state area of the Republic of Croatia. We didn't participate in military operations in Syria or anywhere else with this Agenda. I'm not saying it's not necessary, but I'm just warning that it's a newspaper in Croatian foreign policy. Here's the minister so much for now. I'd just like you to tell me there's going to be a rotation in Poland, whether the same number of soldiers is always foreseen to rotate or there's going to be an oscillation of more or less people. And in that sense, we will, of course, support these decisions because we think it's part of our commitment. But I warn once again that obligations should not be made in this way, that parliamentary committees should be informed in time of what is planned before ministers go and commit Croatia in the same way as we do in European affairs where ministers come into committees and you come and tell us what you will say and what positions you stand for in the Council of Ministers of the EU. Let's take that model to NATO as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41052	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41053	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Klisovic, you were talking about how nice it would be to have Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia at least with someone under the command of certain strong states. Well, I was talking about it, and I said this is our unit, that is. The battle of single multi-state rocket launchers consisting of American forces and under their command. I mean, does that mean anything? You think it's representative that you can be part of their forces and that they're asking it to be one unit all over their system. It's so presented in this one. And I think you could hear that when I was talking about it, and here I am going to repeat the United States as a leading nation in the battle group they have requested the participation of a unit of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia... of the self-contained multi-state rocket launchers. The second motorised company is also under the command of the forces of the Federal Republic of Germany. I think it's also a representative state within NATO forces and that we have a bit of pride that our soldiers are in that composition so that they can demonstrate the achievements of training, equipment and strength that they represent in response to what the military-political alliance has designed, i.e. NATO how to deter those intentions that are a threat to NATO states.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41054	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41055	Thank you very much, Vice President. Yes, Mr. Djakic, I agree with you. Partners like the United States or Germany are really respectable partners. In working with them, our army can truly gain additional experience, additional knowledge that would certainly be useful to them. We know that these are the two countries with which we achieve exceptional military cooperation and in the field of education. Our officers, officers, soldiers go to... Well, our minister was at the end of the West Point, so the top military schools and universities in the U.S., and with Germany, we have that kind of cooperation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I would like is that the initiative does not always come only from the partner's side, whether it's the Germans or the Americans. Sometimes we should have a certain initiative to say: “Look at us for these reasons that it is good for Croatia to participate in this operation and we would like to make these capacities available, so that we can still see an active Croatian policy, although I think it is more active foreign policy than an active defence policy. And in that sense, our minister Krsticevic is not the right person to criticise. That's what foreign policy people should do. But the experiences we'll gain as well as we did in Afghanistan. Let's not forget that the good part of the equipment we used in Afghanistan is the equipment we got as a donation from the Americans, but our people worked on that equipment, they got knowledge, so they're working on that equipment. Today, we may also be able to obtain such equipment under more favorable conditions. So, cooperation certainly is, but cooperation with some purpose, cooperation with some sense is what is missing in today's debate and why is the government and foreign minister competent to explain to us the goals that we want to achieve in these four operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41056	Thank you. Next replica representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41057	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. I can see from my colleague Klisovic that you are primarily offended by the fact that the Croatian Parliament is the last to know of such a decision, although you know that the government of the Republic of Croatia is stemming from this House, it is assumed that it has a majority, and thus the minister must have the authority to negotiate such an action plan in Wales at the NATO summit. You also said that you were opposed to these decisions and that it was actually one practice in the last 25 years. I don't think it's in the last 25 years counting the Homeland War so all the way there until a peaceful reintegration that was out there until 1998. That wasn't even possible. Afterwards, you said that you would be sorry or that you doubted that Croatian soldiers could then serve as cannon meat even though the minister said in his opening statement that through all these actions of sending Croatian soldiers out of the Republic of Croatia, thanks to God, no soldier was killed as well as I understood. And I also remember very well when you came here alone from 2012 to 2015 in front of this Croatian House or together with Minister Vesna Pusic and when you spoke completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41058	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41059	Thank you very much. If I'd said it differently, I just didn't believe it, you'd have to say what I was saying. About cannon meat, just the opposite of what you said. I said that argument should not be used because it is incorrect. Croatia should send an army to stabilise all parts of the world from which the threat to our security comes. So it's the opposite of what you said. As for ministers and procedures, I am very aware of the procedure. I have not said in any word that either the minister or the prime minister or the president came out of their constitutional powers. They are co-creators of foreign policy, they have those powers. I just said that it is not good, that the decision-making body, which is the Croatian Parliament, will be informed of when it is all over and when it is formally decided to raise your hand in this assembly. Now, I think it's bad, and here I've been called to practice in European affairs, where we've seen that it's pointless and passed a law that we've said that ministers before they express their intention to commit Croatia somewhere, to first come to the relevant parliamentary committee, to report, to get so-called. An input, something from a parliamentary representative, one opinion, that it would be a guide in their work. Of course, the opinion of the Assembly Committee does not oblige foreign policy co-creators at that previous stage, because that is simply the law. But politically, however, I think they are acting, that no minister will go deaf about it, and in this context if we want the Parliament to really be a strong political institution, then we simply have to give it to the importance in all these situations and we need to organise meetings on relevant committees so that MPs can express their views on these important issues, because this touches all of us and all of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41060	Thank you. Another replica of Agent Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41061	Dear counterpart Klisovic said we must, that Croatia must be part of the anti-terrorism coalition. I agree with you, however, the question is raised. Was the coalition led by America in Nicaragua, fighting terrorism, or was it actually supporting terrorism? Was the coalition led by America in Libya fighting terrorism or brought terrorists to power? Did the US-led coalition bring down terrorists from power in Afghanistan or lead them to power? Did the US-led coalition bring down terrorism in Iraq, or bring terrorists to Iraq from all over the world? After all, you have to ask yourself, honestly, does America have any fingers in what's going on in Syria? Does America support the methods of terrorism in Syria? And if you're looking from state to state, we can go to Latin America, we can go to the Middle East, we can go to the South Mediterranean, you'll see that America's terrorism supported. Even in Iran, where the goal was to bring down a government that wasn't prone to America and that's where America supported terrorists. She even supported Saddam when he killed the Kurds with chemical weapons and that. And now the question I want to ask you is, do you believe that America, that the goal of America, is really to fight terrorism, or is the goal of America exclusively to fulfill its geopolitical interests, sometimes classic bombings, and sometimes with the help of terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41062	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41063	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, first of all, we don't have a debate today about American foreign policy or security policy. America, like every country in the world, has its own interests, has its priorities and wants to achieve them. In order to make them benefit from their capacity as national, in the case of America they are global capacities, but they benefit from the common capacity and therefore they join with other states in alliances. These alliances are, for example, a NATO alliance, but so is the UN organisation which, through its Security Council, acts to calm down different... a point on the globe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For Croatia, it is always better to have America in an alliance, where we will make decisions together. This also reduces the space of unilateral action of any country including America. If you don't have an alliance that day or at least in real time has on your... certain crisis situations and making quick decisions, joint decisions, then you leave all that space to whom? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those who have one-sided power to act in global international relations. It's America, it's Russia, it's China, etc. For the country of the type of Croatia, therefore, it is extremely important to try to strengthen the alliances in which we are, try to make our voice heard in making decisions and act in a way that everything we don't like, to say this we don't like if we have a veto, we veto, if we have no veto, we go against. You remember the intervention in Iraq, when it started, not all NATO states were in favour, because NATO did not make a joint decision. That's when it started with a voluntary coalition. Therefore, various possibilities have been met with their own interests, what Croatia needs to see is its own interest and how this interest should be incorporated into the common interest in this case of NATO's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41064	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41065	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It's a long history of sending Croatian soldiers to the east. The first time Croatian soldiers were headed east by Napoleon in 1812, they died massively there, as well as the mains of the French army. In particular, our soldiers stood out at the Battle of Berezina and had they not guarded the French, of course they were in the worst position possible, the Napoleonic wars would have ended that year. Thanks to the courage of the Croatian soldiers Napoleon got away with his main headquarters, so the war continued for another 3 years, and in return, we received a compliment, that only the best soldiers in the world as Napoleon said, give me 100,000 Croats and I will conquer the whole world. We also received this compliment that the names of the Croatian troops were carved into the triumphal gate in Paris, but that would be less than all the benefits we received. Other times Croatian soldiers were sent east to war against Russia in World War I, 100,000 Croats left Croatia, so at least 50,000 left bones there, hundreds of thousands were wounded, hundreds of thousands were captured, some were never returned from captivity. My great-grandfather died in the 4th Bosnian regiment in 1915 somewhere in June, now there will be an anniversary. Ask around and your great-grandfathers have also fought Russia. What did Croatia get with it? Nothing, the state we lived in fell apart to enter Yugoslavia afterwards under Russia's auspices. In World War II, Croats again send against Russia 369th legionary regiments, 4 thousand volunteers, send them to the most difficult battlefield in..., Stalingrad on February 2, 1943, when the regiment was destroyed on German official radio played "Beautiful Ours", of 4 thousand members of the Croatian Army returned to their homes. The Međimurjes that were part of Hungary had to go to the Second Hungarian Army, fight on the Don River, disaster happened again, few who came home alive. And now again, so the fourth time from the beginning, we're sending an army to the Russian border. So I am a historian and says one proverb that "the history of life is a teacher", but in this case it seems that this proverb really is not worth it because if we Croats had learned something from that history, they would know that war in Russia has never done us any good, we've just died for foreign interests, served foreign masters, and in fact, they've done themselves harm. Russia has not declared war on Croatia in all history, even this unfortunate Pavelic sent an army to the Soviet Union without the declaration of war. And if there's a country we shouldn't be afraid of, then it's Russia. Russia is a close country to Croatia because it belongs to the same Slavic environment. I know someone might want us from HDZ to be Iranians or maybe not to be Hotentoti, but our language shows that we belong to the Slavic Corps and that we actually have a lot of things close to the peoples of Eastern Europe. Russia is Croatia's third external trade partner, we benefit greatly from economic co-operation with the country from cultural, scientific cooperation and every other kind. Indeed, it is not Croatia's interest to send its soldiers to the same service for a fourth time in less than 200 years because we are not fit by foreign forces. In Russia, it can be an emperor, it can be a communist dictator, it can be a democratically elected president, but the Russians are never good. And why aren't they good? Because they have natural resources, because they have wealth, and they just have to be taken away. Another example of the wrong Croatian military and foreign policy is that Croatia is sending an army to the Middle East as well. We have listened to the last days that Croatia sold Saudi Arabia weapons for 600 million kuna, that's the official figure, we see that with these Croatian state-of-the-art weapons, the assault rifles of the Iraqi Armed Forces, the Kurds, the Syrians are practically unable to take a photograph of their soldier without being armed with Croatian weapons. And I really want to ask you, is arming the warring parties in the Middle East protecting Croatian national security or jeopardizing it? I believe you've heard of another proverb that says, "What are you soaking for?" Don't think that one day it won't come back to us all together, that involvement in conflicts that are completely unnecessary. I believe most MPs have no idea because they don't even care what happens, for example. It's happening in Yemen that attacked a coalition led by Saudi Arabia that we sell weapons to for 600 million kuna. In Yemen 7600 people were killed, 42,000 were wounded, 500 thousand children were starved, 3 million people were displaced, 10 million people in Yemen needed humanitarian aid, 1200 children were killed, 300 hospitals destroyed because of Saudi Arabia and we give weapons for such actions. Is there no one who has a conscience? Do you really want that blood to fall on our hands? Does it matter which party I am, does it matter that I don't know by gender or by any other criterion if I'm involved in such a crime? Do we always have to be party soldiers, whether we always have to be politicians or sometimes we can be people for ourselves to fight for the salvation of our soul so we can say so there's no point. It's not in Croatia's interest to arm armies in Yemen, so it's from a distance of 4,5 thousand kilometers, people don't know where Yemen is on the map of the world, and we're getting involved in it. I think it would be wise for Croatia to cancel these four missions, to say that Croatian soldiers will be the best soldiers in the world but in our own country, to declare a state of permanent neutrality because we are too small to participate in these geopolitical conflicts at all, we can only get hurt, we can lose and we can get almost nothing. For this reason I repeat once again and speak for the party who only opposes these four missions and in the long run it will prove that we were right, that the Living Wall will not support these four actions. And we invite all parliamentary representatives and even more to the Croatian public to resist this effort and to say it once is enough because if we continue this way, in subjective and without thinking, sending our armies to all over the world, the question is where is the end. That's what we're going to be representing the UN in the end, so we're going to... in all 192 countries of the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do we, for example, have the right to demand that someone stay out of our internal affairs if we interfere with others all the time? Do we have the right to tell someone tomorrow not to attack Croatia and we are involved in aggressive operations? I understand that our politicians are afraid of the United States, I understand that they are under pressure but should speak for the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41066	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first replica is representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41067	Comrade Bunjac, I listened to your presentations and although I knew about events in the days of Napoleon and the First and Second World War, I was not actually aware of the extent and extent of the damage we suffered, leading wars that were not ours. And when I look, otherwise to tell you my colleague Branimira, my grandfather was invited to go to the fight against the Russians and he told me Ivane I was deserted, I just ran away from, he was a graduate and he went into the green frame, he said he would rather say with the partisans than against the Russians, because he knew that the Russians couldn't win and that the decision to go against the Russians was actually suicidal. And that's how he saved his head. However, there are people who are still after all these historical lessons that you listed for sending an army to Russia. And you know why? Because they won't go, and their children won't go. Not one of them who raises a hand for it will go there alone. She says people's wisdom is that the easiest thing to do with someone else's is not to say as soon as you've got cactuses or what you've already beaten. And that's the lesson. I'd like to say another interesting thought. I spoke to Milo Horvat, and I told him, so will you who represent the Serbian people in Croatia vote to send the Croatian army to Russia? And he smiles at me, of course we will. And I ask him, so you know how it can end. And you know what Mile Horvat told me to vote for it, he said let him learn another lesson. That's what he told me. So they're laughing at us, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41068	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41069	Yes, it says in one great cemetery of soldiers if you knew how hard it was to die you would immediately stop all wars in this world. But the dead no one hears and the dying no one listens, wounded. And I know that MPs don't care about that, but Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, are full of Croatian cemetery, Google a little, see where the bones of Croats are scattered outside the country. What did we get from fighting in all these regiments that no one knows or names, what were our great-grandfathers led by camps, by Siberia to Vladivostok, to Mongolia, and I don't know where they stayed? Perhaps being returned to us by Joseph Broz Tito, was it perhaps some gain from that war? I don't know, I think we should just take a little interest in the past and learn something from it. Russia I repeat is not a threat to Croatia, at this point I do not see any Russian base near Croatia, I do not see that Russia is called leading an enemy policy towards Croatia and I simply believe that in terms of developing good relations, partnership relations that it is best that we do not participate in these actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41070	Thank you. Next replica representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41071	Thank you very much. In your presentation, you reminded us of some historical facts, of the sending of Croatian soldiers into different forms of troops, into different wars. If you have carefully read the proposal for this decision here the Croatian Army is not sent to war, here the Croatian Army is sent to partner countries, such as Lithuania and Poland, if we talk about Russia, on the territory, so NATO allies, and at the invitation of the two states, with the consent of their governments, not at the address or at the command of NATO. There is no mention of war operations against Russia or the approval of the Croatian military to leave NATO space, so to get out of Poland and Lithuania and go into aggression against Russia. This is not mentioned anywhere, and this is an important difference compared to those cases that you have quoted to us where Croatian soldiers were then sent to war operations including against the Russians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41072	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41073	Thank you very much, Mr. Klisovic. I've already learned that when it comes to defending HDZ and their efforts around NATO that you are my best lawyer. You obviously support all these efforts and if you were now Minister Krstičević, you would probably say everything he said. And I wish you, I sincerely wish your words to be true and that no Croatian soldier will participate in the war, that no Croatian soldier will die, that they all come home alive and healthy. I also hope that there will be no consequences for Croatia other than passing these few hundred thousand refugees who have passed. I hope this ends well, but I'm warning you, unless it ends well, that's when you're responsible. And don't say in two, three, five or 10 years, though I haven't told you today that the danger is great, that the risks are high and that Croatia is not the place in these military operations. I repeat again. Everyone saves their own soul, everyone works on their own responsibility. At the end of the day in politics, everyone works in the interest of the voters who chose him. I made my point, you said yours. The future will show who was right. And if we're learning from the past it seems to be me after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41074	Thank you. Next representative of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41075	I thank the esteemed vice president. A few more words to go back a little bit after this historic examination of colleagues on today's subject. So, Mr. Minister spoke of our participation in international security in line with our obligations as members of NATO and the EU as members of the international coalition. The president gave the previous consent and he says it strengthens our position as a partner in the North Atlantic Alliance as an appropriate member in the fight against terrorism. This is about two NATO missions. One is in Poland, one is in Lithuania, one is in the EU and one is in coalition forces. What we didn't hear today. For example, counterpart Podolnjak spoke about the numbers where other forces, other countries, will be hired. So, we didn't really get the information here today that you were supposed to argue with these decisions that you're asking us to make. So Poland was never talked about again until two months ago. It is said that the call came from Poland itself, but it is a series of decisions to strengthen NATO's defence capabilities in Eastern Europe at a summit in Warsaw last July. A battle of self-run multi-state rocket launchers known to WBRs has been requested and the report says nicely, so a unit that has strong firepower will be sent and only Great Britain, Poland and Romania will participate next to us. Which is why we didn't offer a sanity, which is why we didn't offer engineering, but we offered one of these strong firepower units that sends a different message. By leaving and participating in Operation SOPHIA, we return to the Mediterranean. That was already announced by former Minister Buljevic and she is somewhat and justified in view of the assistance we must give to combat illegal migration. The most intriguing is actually and perhaps today listening to you and thinking from what we can learn from open sources, participating in Operation INHERENT RESOLVE in Iraq where we are actually coming into a situation where we can also collect our intelligence and be included among the 60 countries that will be present in Kuwait. Could we have done it in some other way? I think so. These three of our members won't make a big move. To come back, actually. It's just a review. What's most important. The MORH said the Defence Council was held and supported by a proposal for the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland as part of a concept of a strengthened NATO presence in the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Poland. They say the necessary consultations were held afterwards with all relevant structures, and so, at the invitation of the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Croatia agreed to participate in the battle group led by the US in Poland, and the final decision will be taken by the Croatian Parliament. So even before the final decision, Croatia had already declared its readiness and will to participate, and it even came out with numbers all before the regular cabinet session was held, before you at least met the committees in charge and before it came to this plenary session. This started a demeaning of the Croatian Parliament when it comes to such decisions. The Croatian Parliament has thus proved to be irrelevant, one irrelevant link in the chain despite the clear constitution. In its Article 7(5), the Constitution states that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia may cross its borders or act beyond its borders on the basis of a decision of the Croatian Parliament proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the previous consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the majority of the votes of all MPs. So in the Croatian Parliament. Likewise, and then all the numerical meanings, everything depends on the Parliament and the result of the agreement cannot actually be agreed on by the leading nations, and so does the Law on Defence in its 49th Article 1 where not even mentioned by the Defence Council as someone who makes the decision. It has only a formal role and is only mentioned as a form of co-ordination of the state authorities' bodies to coordinate views and reach conclusions and recommendations in the area of defence. The Defence Council here was actually the one who made the decision on behalf of the Croatian Parliament. You're only asking us to raise our hands. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia is a NATO member and in this capacity assumes agreed obligations for collective security and defence to strengthen borders, and to protect borders. So, I believe that the involvement of 300 of our Croatian soldiers far exceeds the size of power, the size of Croatia as one of NATO members or not the proportion of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The parliament was to be equal in all the advances that preceded this decision and as the most legislative body was put before the final act at the moment, and the Croatian Parliament must not in any way be a voting machine. And that's why, as we said, I'm also repeating MOST of independent lists, because I don't think you've answered all the questions that we've asked today, all of what we're supposed to hear here today, and that's what the far-reaching consequences of all of this or what's actually a question of all the questions is whether this might be a way for us to compensate for not being able to isolate 2% of our budget that NATO is actually asking us to do, but by engaging our soldiers, we're going to compensate for not being able to carry out in the percentage of the money we have to allocate for the defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41076	I'm sorry. Thank you very much. [[I'll say, Ante Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41077	Thank you, Vice President. Let me just rephrase it to my colleague. I understand what part of this is being played here or bypassing the Parliament. So the Moreh has expressed its readiness and has come here the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister here in front of us and will explain to us all the questions. And I don't know why we're even running this debate in the sense of America, Russia, everything. The Croatian Army cannot be the strongest today in the 21st century if it remains alone in the country. Why? And if he's not involved in these missions. Simply what the Deputy Prime Minister will soon explain to us and the National Security and Homeland Security Strategy is simply new threats, new threats. Without these missions, without following trends, without our soldiers seeing what's going on and in the military industry to visit all these missions, to see what's new. I just can't be on my level. But mostly this replica doesn't understand how the Parliament is played if the Deputy Prime Minister is here with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41078	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41079	I am sorry that you do not understand and understand that the Croatian Parliament is the most body and it is not good that in these afternoon hours of this point we listen so quickly to the agenda and try to explain to ourselves what is already known for months. We just need to be acquainted, and in fact what is not clear to you disproportionately, which is not clear to you in fact that only Croatia, France and the UK only have these three countries in two of the four groups mentioned. Which is why we have to send so many of our soldiers to prove ourselves a good NATO member. What do we show, and who is the muscle plant?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41080	Thank you. Next individual debate representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41081	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the chairman. I'm listening to the debate and I wonder why people don't see the truth, why people can't see it, or understand that America in the Middle East doesn't spread peace, and it doesn't fight terrorism, it does the opposite. The reason why they can't see it is the personal interests of each of those who are so important in this debate on the other hand. Although they're often contradictory. For example, counterpart Klisovic says the mission is not a military mission, and a HDZ gentleman says that if we don't go on military missions we won't have the best army trained with knowledge, etc. In history, however, there were people who made decisions contrary to their conscience. So their conscience was telling them, it was obviously one thing. Well, they were doing something else. And what's going on? It happens that a people who do not listen to their conscience, who, when offered a poor choice between the two policies, choose one that is for America, for NATO, for soldiers, etc. to be sent into conflict. Now that people will be dragged into a dirty game. And now every time they sent Croatian soldiers to the Russian front and in the days of Napoleon and at the time of the First and Second World War they always told them, they didn't, they didn't tell them, you went there for the sake of other people's interest, I don't know Germany, America, France or whatever, but they told them no, you go there for your own interest. It is in Croatia's interest for you to go to Russia, that's what they told them. You, if you go to Russia, do your patriotic duty. And unfortunately, there were people who fell for that patriotic rhetoric as they now fall for the elections for a party they consider patriotic. On the other hand, they vote for a party they consider social-democratic. They say HDZ is a democratic party. I will not question the notion of democracy from the HDZ, but I will touch on the issues of Christianity. Ask Jesus Christ that by any chance he is here now among us, would he say send soldiers, would you say send military weapons to Saudi Arabia to Wahhabi, sell them what you have or say avoid war and conflict and conflict. It's not my way. A colleague from HDZ is disgusted. He says you dare to mention Jesus. Of course, how dare you remember Christianity? With what right did you HDZ gentlemen label yourself as a Christian party, among other things? Christian for what? What are the values But I think my time is going [[/Intruder Opačić: colleague Pernar, please return to the topic. So, HDZ at this point is not the topic of our debate. A little while ago, you told your colleagues Klisovic the same thing...]] And there's a problem, because my time is still going, and you want to talk for me? Listen to me a little bit. [[No problem, I'll give you your two minutes back.]] A short time ago, you told your colleague Klisovic that it was not a topic of debate. I'm telling you now, this isn't the topic of the debate either. It's not HDZ, it's sending our soldiers on a mission, so I'm asking you to get back on topic. You got it. Well, the thing is that sending soldiers to the eastern front is sending soldiers to Kuwait, Libya, Afghanistan, and where nothing but a crazy decision that is not based on our country's interests, because if our country's interest were first, then it would be more important to send soldiers to Lithuania, and it would not be questionable to treat the sick children in Klaic, but unfortunately in our country for the HDZ government it is more important to send soldiers to Lithuania than to get the cure. And why is that? And because the order of priorities is such as the Bunjac fellow said that those who die, who are in trouble, who are difficult, are not asked about them. Their opinion doesn't matter. And the dead like he said, I can't speak. And that which, you said, as you can mention to Jesus, okay, you would mention to this occasion someone else, all of the Croatian soldiers who went to the Russian border in the past, that by any chance they could rise and appear today among these benches, ask yourself what would those who were with Napoleon, Hitler or Bismarck or who had already gone to the Russian front say. They'd all tell you, people it's tough work. We will not decide this war, but you convince the Croatian public here that it is Croatia who decides something, that Croatia is the one who means something, and in fact it means nothing and we are not asked anything, and you are actually one country that has all the predisposition to be modern, turned into a customerelist country of the West. It's clienttelistic in every way. A suicidal economic policy, money as a debt, has been implemented since 1913 when in America, a private group of people led by Rohit took control of federal reserves and took over the government of moneymaking, this same group of people through the US government actually manages our monetary policy, which is against Croatia, which leads the people into debt slavery, which leads the people into poverty, which leads the Croatian people into disappearance. Here they announced yesterday that since Croatia was independent, there has never been a small number of children born. And it would be logical for us in the Parliament to discuss measures to reverse trends, how to raise the number of children born, but of course there is no debate in the Croatian Parliament on how to help the Milanovic family from Motovun, which is 23 on Friday, awaiting a dissuasion under the orders of the illegal RBA cooperative. This is not of interest to the HDZ gentlemen, nor to the SDP, but they are interested that Croatian soldiers must send them to the eastern front, to the Russian border. Why is it not their priority to the Milanovic family or the Zorica family from Črnomerec, where you were doing the work the other day, but, or Antolic, no, it is a priority to you something completely different, from which the Croatian people have no use, on the contrary, it will have to pay everything. So someone should tell the Croatian people soldiers are being sent to the burden of the state budget. It is the Republic of Croatia who must pay for this exhibitionism of America. You won't tell the Croatian voters that. And then people wonder why we have the phenomenon of extreme poverty? Well, it's obvious why we do. Because this government and government have other priorities, and these priorities, like Tupac Shakur said, are not war against poverty. Someone is a war "against terrorism", which is essentially all but war against terrorism, which is a war for domination, a work to control world resources. And in this kind of war, you push Croatia out of conflict. With what right? Do you know what right it is? With the right of your citizens to choose what they said in the elections, it is better that the money goes to a military mission in Lithuania than goes to sick children in Klaic. It was the decision of the Croatian people. It is better for soldiers to go to Kuwait in Libya than for them to be at home with their families and with their children that was the decision of the Croatian people. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, what happens to soldiers who refuse, they refuse such missions? Have you ever wondered that? I'll tell you, if you're a soldier, yeah, you're not going to go to Lithuania, well, then you'll get a transfer, away from your house, you're working for a miserly salary, etc., and they're actually blackmailing, or forcing soldiers to accept participation in these "peace missions". And the thesis, I think, is peace missions, so look at the missions America's been doing around the world. Are those your peace missions? In Afghanistan every once in a while, some Afghan soldier kills American soldiers. Are you following the news? Every once in a while. The other day, yesterday, I think, a man killed four American soldiers. And she's the one the secretary said, I think, or someone in the Parliament said, I say fortunately none of ours has died yet. Yeah, so it's shooting, so there's a conflict, there's a war, but fortunately no one died, so somebody has to go back to the coffin, somebody has to die, a mother has to cry, like the Tomislav Salopek family cried, so you can wonder what our policy is and what its consequences are. As long as Croatian soldiers return alive, this topic will not be discussed. But only when they start dying will the question be asked, so yeah, what use did we have? Unfortunately, it is all in the hands of voters who have no consciousness, who simply do not realize that by voting for HDZ and SDP, they do not do, in a picturesque way, to not defend the interests of Croatia, their people or themselves personally, their families, their children, but the interests of these foreign centres of power, the oligarchy of the monopoly as they have already called them who essentially want to rule the whole world, just a little more subtle methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41082	Thank you. We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first one came from a representative, Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41083	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, my colleague Pernar has injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure. First of all, he didn't stick to the topic of the debate, and the second is really inadmissible to keep hitting on HDZ deputies even though he had nothing to do with it, and I consider you a colleague, I respect you as a parliamentary representative... So I expect you to respect me. [[You can't hear a break-in on the side.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41084	Enough fellow Pernar, please sit down... Please sit down... [[You can't hear a break-in on the side.]] Please sit down. [[You can't hear a break-in on the side.]] Please sit down, while I chair you won't be doing a circus in the hall, you keep trying to make it I won't give you that opportunity. Representative Jelkovac had her right to give counseling warning even if he felt that the Rules of Procedure had been injured. Now I'm going to give the same right to Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41085	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I also believe that Article 238, paragraph 1, was injured for the reason that a colleague did not talk all the time about the subject of today’s debate, and I also believe that Article 7, which says that by his conduct the person who speaks, is deviating from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. Besides, this rhetoric of my colleagues insults me personally as an advocate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41086	Yeah, I warned him to get his colleague Pernar back on the subject. Now, fellow Pernar, you have five minutes on behalf of the Living Wall Club, I hope you stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41087	Today in the Croatian Parliament we testify that there are actually two parties to HDZ and SDP in Croatia, but there is only one interestingly tied team serving foreign centres of power. As America says, they agree. If America said tomorrow send soldiers to the Philippines they'd say we're sending soldiers to the Philippines, it's our duty. If they said send soldiers to Papua New Guinea or South Sudan, you'd say they'd go to South Sudan and Papua New Guinea. What is problematic is not only that soldiers are sent as they say to God behind their feet, but it is problematic that you do not wonder what is the purpose of their departure or whether they are in this conflict, whatever war they are already going for because they protect the interest of peace, the Croatian state, the Croatian people or what they are going to do there exclusively and just to serve the geopolitical interests of America. That's what you should be asking yourself. Does the Croatian people benefit from the Americas taking down Muammar Gaddafi, whether it has or not? No, there's no damage, I'll explain later. Does the Croatian people benefit from bringing down Saddam Hussein from power? There isn't. You know what the man who knocked down Saddam Hussein's statue with a hammer said, do you know that story, Mr. Bull? He gave an interview for Al Jazeera that was the man who was at all the satellite houses together with American soldiers tore down the statue. He says he'd give anything to get Saddam back. So it's worse in Iraq now than it was before, in Libya it's worse than before and in Syria than it was before America brought democracy, peace, human rights, and I don't know what passwords all have in spreading that global terror. As Parliamentarians, you too have a historic opportunity and an opportunity to resist it and to say if America systematically causes wars, if it finances and trains terrorists, if we have a refugee crisis, if for this reason we have to take refugees into our country, if that is why we have incidents that one refugee insults and attacks our member of the European Parliament there in New Zagreb, Porin, where it is a refugee shelter you would have to ask yourself is that in Croatia's interest. And what's worst of all, I'm telling you again, you say NATO commits, America commits, what if NATO says tomorrow we're going to attack Iran? He wants to tell you we won't, what's our use, or you'll say Mr. Donald Trump says so we'll all nod our heads. That's the question you have to ask yourself. And the tragic answer is that all of you HDZ and SDP gentlemen will nod your head and say we go wherever we need to go. That's a sad answer. And then when I say that you consider yourself a democratic party, and if Jesus saw what you're doing, he'd be amazed, you Pernar's turning off the subject. Okay. I'm turning off the subject, and what are you doing? You are involved in the crime, by supporting the bombing of Libya against international law, which the country is isolated from destruction, the people of suffering being returned in a technological sense to a stone age, if you consider me to have nothing to do with it, and Croatia could have stopped it in NATO, she could have told me that we disagreed, but she did not. Because unfortunately, you HDZ and SDP gentlemen are nothing but American dolls at the end of the day, and then you'll be aware of that, and by your decisions you'll testify from day to day. You can't replicate because you know you're wrong and you want to be buried with arguments. And then there's the HDZ lady who's picking up the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and she's replicating because she knows that the Rules of Procedure won't allow me to retaliate. If you HDZ think that I'm wrong, that this policy is correct, you're free to replicate, I'm ready to face arguments. And the easiest thing to do is lift up a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure and tell me this insults me, it offends me. And I know that it offends you and I would be offended if someone told me, Ivan, you support evil, and that's where you play some Christian. Thank you. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41088	Thank you. Mr. Minister, do you need a final address? You don't. After some discussions, indeed, everyone smart is left speechless. I'm closing this debate today. Tomorrow at half past ten we continue with the Final Proposal of the House Loan Subsidisation Act, second reading. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 18.25 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-20-0.u41089	Proposal for a decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of activities strengthened by NATO's prior presence in the Republic of Poland. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I stress Article 7(6). The constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that a majority of all MPs' votes are required to make a decision, i.e. 76 votes. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland as part of an action-enhancing NATO presence in the Republic of Poland. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 96 for, 21 abstentions and 3 against a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland as part of the activities of the strengthened NATO's front presence.
