ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24862	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. The SDP club is seeking a break of ten minutes to talk or inform the public about the submission of the proposal for a law to ratify the Istanbul Convention against Violence against Women, and congratulates International Women's Day on all women in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24863	Agent Tomo Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24864	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, I request a ten-minute break to discuss the company Gai and the workers of them about 700 who have not received their claims of nearly 70 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24865	Representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24866	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the Live Wall and the SNAGA Club, I want to talk about the case law in Germany regarding credit processing fees, which could be very easy to apply to us. We'd have to abolish those fees by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24867	Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24868	Mr. President. I am looking for the same break on behalf of the Club of Representatives Let's change Croatia to warn the Croatian public and protest the inexplicable delay in the conduct of the DORH in the case of such actions as the Dnevnica case and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24869	Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24870	Thank you, Mr. President. And the HDZ Club is looking for a break about the Dnevnica affair.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24871	If there are no other interested parties, I'm setting a ten-minute break. Thank you. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The SDP advocates' club first reported for a break. Stanko will explain their representative, Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24873	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today is International Women's Day, and on behalf of the SDP Club, I want to congratulate all my fellow MPs, all the women in the Republic of Croatia as well as around the world on their day. The United Nations declared 1975 a year, an international year for women. And since that year, this day has been celebrated as an international women's day. On this day we remember all the efforts, all the hard work, all the struggles that women have made to exercise their rights. We remember these rights that have been recognised even after a gruesome struggle. We also remember the injured 140 workers at the New York factory in 1911 who fought for their rights. The SDP advocates' club wants to make a contribution to rights and the fight against violence against women. And that is why we are going to refer today to the parliamentary procedure of the proposal for a law on ratification of the Istanbul Convention. So the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence. And this is not a gift to women, for you cannot give them what is inherent to them as human beings, by God's justice and by the justice of man. This is only our contribution to make Croatian society and Croatia a better country. The law is simple, it has several articles and a great explanation. After the adoption of the law, all regulations in the Republic of Croatia will need to be aligned with the provisions of the Convention. It will also need to provide funding in the state budget so that a comprehensive mechanism of protection of women's rights and protection against violence against women and domestic violence can be implemented. And we here in the Parliament have already had a debate on the situation in the area of violence against women and Parliamentarians have given their full support to fight and prevent such violence. Dear fellow MPs, I invite you all together to accept and vote for this Law on ratification of the Istanbul Convention. It's time to move from word to deed in this case. Likewise, the Prime Minister of our government, Mr Plenkovic, gave full support to the ratification of this Convention on 25.11.2016. The minister in charge of this matter, Mrs Nada Murganic, did the same yesterday. Therefore, I would also ask the President of the Parliament to put this agenda on the Parliament's agenda as soon as possible. And the official data is alarming and requesting immediate action. The number of victims, women victims from 2013 to 2015, increased by 184% as a result of the crimes committed by the close ones. Unfortunately, the number of women killed is also not reduced as a result of acts of violence by close individuals. So I ask you all here together to stand up and, for a minute of silence, honor all women who are victims of violence, women who have been beaten as a result of the crime of violence to those close to them. A moment of silence, their glory. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today is International Women's Day, and on behalf of the SDP Club, I want to congratulate all my fellow MPs, all the women in the Republic of Croatia as well as around the world on their day. The United Nations declared 1975 a year, an international year for women. And since that year, this day has been celebrated as an international women's day. On this day we remember all the efforts, all the hard work, all the struggles that women have made to exercise their rights. We remember these rights that have been recognised even after a gruesome struggle. We also remember the injured 140 workers at the New York factory in 1911 who fought for their rights. The SDP advocates' club wants to make a contribution to rights and the fight against violence against women. And that is why we are going to refer today to the parliamentary procedure of the proposal for a law on ratification of the Istanbul Convention. So the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence. And this is not a gift to women, for you cannot give them what is inherent to them as human beings, by God's justice and by the justice of man. This is only our contribution to make Croatian society and Croatia a better country. The law is simple, it has several articles and a great explanation. After the adoption of the law, all regulations in the Republic of Croatia will need to be aligned with the provisions of the Convention. It will also need to provide funding in the state budget so that a comprehensive mechanism of protection of women's rights and protection against violence against women and domestic violence can be implemented. And we here in the Parliament have already had a debate on the situation in the area of violence against women and Parliamentarians have given their full support to fight and prevent such violence. Dear fellow MPs, I invite you all together to accept and vote for this Law on ratification of the Istanbul Convention. It's time to move from word to deed in this case. Likewise, the Prime Minister of our government, Mr Plenkovic, gave full support to the ratification of this Convention on 25.11.2016. The minister in charge of this matter, Mrs Nada Murganic, did the same yesterday. Therefore, I would also ask the President of the Parliament to put this agenda on the Parliament's agenda as soon as possible. And the official data is alarming and requesting immediate action. The number of victims, women victims from 2013 to 2015, increased by 184% as a result of the crimes committed by the close ones. Unfortunately, the number of women killed is also not reduced as a result of acts of violence by close individuals. So I ask you all here together to stand up and, for a minute of silence, honor all women who are victims of violence, women who have been beaten as a result of the crime of violence to those close to them. A moment of silence, their glory.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24875	The MOST advocates' club also called for a break. In their name will speak MP Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24876	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's because I speak on behalf of the Most Club, then allow me to wish both on my personal behalf and on behalf of the MOST Club to all women in the Republic of Croatia a happy Women's Day. And first of all, according to the subject I'm going to talk about, all those dissidents, those women who have lost their jobs and who find it hard to reach these jobs. The topic I chose today concerns one company, former GIGANT in the woodworking industry Slatina, GAJ Slatina, which is a symbol of a privatisation robbery in the Republic of Croatia. I say this not because the GAJ failed but the same reason that 700 employees still demand their claims of nearly 70 million kuna. Today, in a lot of society, it is often mentioned, the current topic of dealing with the past, but it seems to me that we are actually, to say it this way, that the past is facing us. So privatisation, you might say, was an organized form of robbery on the sidelines of criminal law. That's how I see it. Privatization is one fictional term, because what does privatizing mean? Privatizing means taking the money out of your pocket and buying something and then it's yours. However, anything that has happened, especially in this case, around the GJ companies, is not like that. So it wasn't a matter of privatisation. Now someone might say here, Grandma's gone with the cookies. I'm not talking about cookies here today, cakes are eaten. Even that last cake that Grandma wanted someone jumped in and bit her finger. I'm not even talking about Grandma anymore. Grandmothers turned off the power, took her vanilla sugar and baking powder and tepsi. Grandma doesn't bake cookies anymore. Today we are talking about grandchildren and sons even these grandmothers and their families who are packing bags today and leaving this country. They're leaving this country for existence. But you know what's worse than that? They leave because they have lost faith and hope, they have lost faith and hope for just these reasons. You see, within 20 years, the Gai company lost 1,500 jobs, so not workers, but jobs. And about 200 million kunas have been lost by the state through the rehabilitation and other aid it has given to the company. Over 600 workers have lost 70 million of their claims. And now a few important things that I want to point out. When we talk about workers who have their claims about 70 million kunas, the key question is whether all legal actions have been taken to fight for their rights, whether they have been deceived and manipulated in the process. And eventually, if it is, and most likely, it's a done deal, someone needs to give them a public message and call out any answers. An example that shows that those representing them did not take all the action is the fact that they could not press charges before the International Court in Strasbourg because they were told that not all domestic remedies were exhausted. Second point. The finding of the State Review of the privatisation process of Guy found that the procedures for obtaining shares of individual natural persons who thus acquired more than half the ownership of the company were not accompanied by the necessary legal documentation between these natural persons and banks. So there are a number of things where the State's Attorney's Office and all the competent institutions have had to react all these years. I will also mention after the first bankruptcy loan approved by Croatia's insurance company. The state also guaranteed one company by its ownership of Agroduhan for the 25 million kuna loan. According to the worker's claims, it's not clear where that money ended. There's a series of irregularities but there's little time. And third thing, I will read to you what Mr. Shime Oreshkovic, a unional, regional union commissioner, said. He says: “The failed Gaia FM was cooked by local politicians, former high - policy owners who came to the state’s money and bought them a company, so buying them out of their own pocket didn’t cost them a dime. The union and the workers showed understanding in front of all those who wanted to start production in Gaja and we learned to launch bankruptcy when we were sure there would be nothing. We have filed criminal charges against those responsible who have ruined the company and 270 jobs, but we still don't know if that's what happened."The words are from a regional union commissioner. Later, Mr. Oreshkovic announced, told the public that the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Virovitica refused to initiate a criminal procedure for strange reasons. All of this points to the fact that this country has not done everything to protect workers and their rights. When the celebration of the day of the town of Slatina which became the poorest city in one of the poorest counties, then we pride ourselves on the facade brick that was built in the 1970s, 1980s in which a kindergarten or school was built. On the other hand, we cut out the machines, the cranes, everything that was worth to Gaia, and we threw it into the old iron. Even savages wouldn't have done any different.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24877	Thank you. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" representatives club also called for a break. In their name will be the representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24878	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say something today about credit processing fees but before that, all women here in the assembly, but also in the entire Republic of Croatia, I want a happy Women's Day and I want them to have a good time today and be nice to them, at least today if they can't do it every day. Therefore, credit processing fees, in the opinion of the lawyers I am talking to, in the opinion of the "Franak" Association, have no basis for any compensation. What's this about? The bank at the start of some contractual relationship on the loan contract that you will pay her for that loan that she pays you one, two, three percent of the amount of that loan. And then that amount of one, two, three percent gets out of that loan and the rest of 97% pays you for the purpose for which the loan is paid. And then on that three percent fee, you also got a loan and you pay further interest. Why do we feel that this fee is not legal? Because it is not specified at all and because there is no basis for where this cost comes from. Banks have their own employees who have been paid and no special cost happens because someone has raised a loan. It is a false fee and that fee must not be charged. What I've been investigating lately is court practice in Germany. For several years there have been legal disputes against banks in Germany. There are several thousand court disputes where debtors sued banks for believing that banks were not allowed to charge credit processing fees. We have a whole series of first-degree rulings, we have several second-degree rulings which are clearly and unequivocally decided that banks should not have charged credit processing fees and that banks should pay those fees back to their debtors. The Supreme Court is currently deciding on this matter, so it is likely to make some decision that will apply to the entire state. What else is very important about these fees? The important thing is that the courts have taken a stand and these higher courts, there is no statute of limitations on those fees. So, if someone took out a loan in 2003, fourth, fifth by some principle of old age, the common aged one could only ask for what someone owed him in the last five years. However, since there was no knowledge of debtors having the right to repay that baseless amount of money, the debtor could not even ask for it to be returned to him. Only when the court has established that there is a basis for the return of such unfounded funds can it begin to run out of time. Therefore, very important details for our judiciary are that the German judiciary has found firstly that credit processing fees are illegal, secondly, that there is no statute to repay those fees. I would like to and expect it from all of us to determine in some future period which bank fees should no longer be charged, and those fees that I think and the opinion of the Frank Association should never be charged again. First of all, credit processing fees are clear, and second fees for early repayment of loans because the Mandatory Relations Act is fully clear, the bank has the right to pay it back before time under the Law on Mandatory Relations to the rest of the principal and to the interest that is due to the day of repayment of the credit, and to the damages if damage occurs. There's no damage. Someone paid back the money that was due and paid the interest, so there's no damage. Therefore, I advocate that the law prescribes that clearly prohibited credit processing fees and early repayment fees, and what was before, is something that probably debtors have to consider whether they're going to press charges against banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24879	Representatives' Club Change Croatia, also reported for a break. Agent Ivan Lovrinović will speak for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24880	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Dear citizens who follow us. Let me first give all women in the Republic of Croatia congratulations on their holiday. On behalf of the Representatives' Club, I would like to change Croatia to point out not only the irregularities related to this case of payouts, as quite already said, but I would like to point out the inadmissible manner of conduct of the State Attorney's Office which, according to my calculations on 19 October 2016, the audit data carried out by the State Audit Office were found on the DORH pages. It took 110 days, because on February 10th, our colleague here, Agent Tomislav Saucha, was arrested, 110 days were to be launched. The question is raised in this country, if in one government that is the top of the state management system, if such things happen, and which State Audit Office submitted the report and warned, it gave indications where it clearly states, it says exactly that some people who went on official trips abroad did not provide explanations, valid documents or explanations for what they were doing, where they were, wasn't it enough to indicate that the DORH did so by way of order? Should every occasion the prime minister of this country bring these governments in to paint my hand, the state's attorney, and tell him what to do? Gentlemen, if this is done in the government of the Republic of Croatia, and we there, the State Review sanctions and anyone else at any other public firm, and it's quite effective, and we don't know what's going on here yet, be careful, we still don't know what it's about, then we have a top-level security problem, endangering security at the highest level. But the public already knows a lot about this. I'd like to point out the next thing in the same State Audit report on public procurement, you see. So, our club invites the DORH, so if it is necessary for the prime minister to bring the state's attorney back, to investigate these public procurements right in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2015 office refers to the 2015 report. It is generally known to you and these public procurements were about 18 million kuna for that year in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So-called Bagatel public procurements, which are in the amount of EUR 200 000, are normally prescribed when they are implemented to collect at least three offers. But here's how in February 2014 the General Jobs Office made a guideline to some of their models on how it should be done. So he says here I'm reading right through the computer, so from the State Audit report, he says, "It says that the purchase of goods, services and works estimated up to 50 thousand kuna is carried out by issuing an order to one economic operator," you see, the orders only, "in the direction of the bagattel procurement process estimated from 50 to 100 thousand kuna is carried out on the basis of the tenders requested by at least two bidders", you see two, "and from 100 to 200 three". But there is one more thing, "and it is extremely possible to ask for an offer from only one bidder without explaining the reason for such treatment." Well, you see what's down there the last one, it's extremely possible to ask for the State Review to warn you that it wasn't exceptional, it was very common. I'll stop here, not to read further the State Audit report, but just to warn that it's not just diaries, to warn that the same things are not subject to the same criteria for all public entities overseeing the state audit to warn that the DORH is simply or late. If the log was passive, the total cumulative amount is low What we have in the drawers that's still there. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] So we have big problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24881	Thank you. The HDZ advocates' club also called for a break. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic will speak for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24882	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, allow me, as well as all the predecessors, that on behalf of the HDZ Club, I congratulate all women's Day with wishes in fact that all together with women we work in their better position in society, that we bring good acts in this House in order for their position to be as good as possible, the more jobs, the better economic, their position, the less violence, and certainly not enough rhetoric on this, because here we see and our colleague Klisovic was actually saying that we need to adopt the Law on the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which we signed as a Republic of 2013 somewhere in the 2nd month, and only the Government of Andrej Plenkovic has now established a group that will suggest that we ratify this Convention in this term. It's not right that so much time goes by from signing a convention to ratification, so here we are, and that should be our contribution to actually a better position for women in society. But what we've thoroughly come to realize is that we're actually taking part in this debate, to talk to the public, it's this shameful event that's taking up quite a public space today, and it's an affair about the diaries. It is indisputable, it has been found that at the very top of the state government, therefore in the Prime Minister's office, not all of this government, and these governments that were before it, that actually unfair actions have taken place in connection with the counterfeiting of travel orders on which people actually took the money and there were really these painful things that cast shame and shadow upon us both as politicians and on us as the Croatian Parliament, so to the highest state summit. And so here we are from this stage, so from this constituency, we would like to call on the state's attorney's office to resolutely take advantage of all the legal opportunities it has, to shed light on this event, that those who have done this, to prosecute them and then in a fair court procedure, if the court is to be determined in fact and all the facts necessary to impose the appropriate penalties in order to get its judgmental epilogue. What we also call on all of us here in the Croatian Parliament to give support to the state's attorney's office because somehow these days we watch that actually focus is no longer in who did it, as he did, let's process it but actually focus is now why it is Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic called a press conference, why there is a state lawyer, whether it affected the judiciary, whether he broke the constitution, I'll say, whether he is even qualified, whether this man is a tyrant, I will say really when we look at it all together is a little bit pointless. The interest of all of us is, precisely, the interest of all of us who are here to get some light as soon as possible, to get his judicial epilogue and to get justice done here. Andrej Plenkovic and the current government actually inherited all this. This obviously happened a longer number of years before them and they acted as a responsible government and as a responsible government they stood before the Croatian public and said it was happening, not only for a period which was primarily stated as a period where it was but also wider. And therefore, here we welcome this attitude and this is the government's quest. And once again, we call on the state's attorney's office to use all its legal powers and possibilities to get this to a judicial epilogue and to put an end to such acts. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u24883	Since we've exhausted the breaks that have been reported, we'll continue our work. The first point is - - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Hunting Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 87; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the 1st reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Tugomir Majdak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32618	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, I congratulate the International Women's Day on this occasion and all the best for the same, respected parliamentary representatives. The adoption of Amendments and the addition of the Hunting Law is necessary in order to comply with EU law, i.e. Directive 2009/147 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conservation of wild birds. The current Hunting Act did not require the transposition of that Directive on the conservation of wild birds, so on 3 March 2015, the European Commission informed the Republic of Croatia through the EU pilot system that it had assessed the quality of the transposition of the Directive into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia in particular regarding the Nature Protection Act and the Hunting Act. Following the closure of the EU pilot of the case No. 7372/15NV1 on its own initiative, the European Commission opened infringement proceedings for EU law No. 2016/2017 In order to avoid further procedures for the implementation of EU law, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to comply as quickly as possible with the regulation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conservation of wild birds as we do with this law and in such a way as to prescribe a ban on hunting, feathered game during the raising of young children or different stages of reproduction and the prohibition of the hunting of migratory species during or during their return to the area where the young are raised. Furthermore, the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 3 June 2016, dated 15 December 2016, abolished paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 82 of the Hunting Law and showed the need to comply with the applicable law in the part where the damage prescribed by the gamer could cause to people or property on land on which the hunting ground is situated. This mainly refers to damages to agricultural crops paid for by land users, but also to traffic damages. Infringement provisions relating to the amendment and addition of this law are also harmonised, and the final adoption of this law is of the importance for the protection and conservation of birds of particularly migratory species, and no doubt prescribes a liability for game damage, whether it is a game that lives or occasionally resides in a hunting ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32619	Representative Branimir Bunjac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32620	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. How you comment on the report received during the public debate on this law that an independent study was made in 2010 as part of a project to protect the Adriatic country road of birds from Slovenia to Albania has made it clear that hunting practice in Croatia is at a shamefully low level with an average score of 2.18 out of 5 possible assessments. A negative assessment of Croatian hunting has been obtained due to the absence of a particular bird control system, the provision of hunting during the reproductive season, the negative impact on endangered species of birds, generally recognised and widespread poaching. The latest study in 2016 mentions that in Croatia, between 166 and 855 thousand species of wild birds of which the largest number is strictly protected species are killed annually. Among other things, it is said that poaching in Croatia today exceeds the traditional catches of birds for the purposes of feeding and breeding, and the Delta Neretva is the only Ramsar area in Croatia in which hunting for weeds is not prohibited today is an international synonym for poaching and poaching. For this catastrophic state of hunting in Croatia, direct responsibility is borne by the Department of Hunting of the Resord Ministry of Agriculture, Croatian Hunting Union, Croatian Forests, Hunting Society and Croatian Hunters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32621	Representative Vlaovic also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32622	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear State Secretary, here I welcome the natural adoption of the Hunting Law because all hunters in Croatia are interested in keeping this area quality order, to help hunters continue to cultivate and preserve nature and the cultivation of game, of course protecting birds of particularly protected species in the Republic of Croatia. But a fighter without a rifle is not a hunter. He's just a naturalist then, and I'm asking you a question if you can answer it. We have recently had a debate on the Law on Weapons, where most hunters from the field have expressed dissatisfaction when we are already harmonising laws with European directives and European practices whether there is a possibility that the validity of a health card, i.e. the belief that it is capable of carrying and holding weapons, is possible. He had the same treatment as in neighbouring countries, as in Europe because the fact is that it's been laid down in the law for five years. That's how we get our 70,000 hunters to go into health every five years. It costs from 500 to 1000 kuna and it is a blow to their home budget, and for example some European countries do not even ask for such a medical conviction. He's been in some states for 10 years. Our proposal went towards that in Croatia for 10 years. Have you had any contact with the Ministry of the Interior whose jurisdiction it is and in which direction a solution can be expected as hunters expect it from you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32623	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Representative Davor Romic, chairman of the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32624	... Parliamentarians, parliamentary representatives. [[Specially enabled.]] I also use the opportunity to wish all women, all MPs, all women in the Republic of Croatia, all women around the world a happy International Women's Day. I also want to say that this house today at 13:30 will have a debate about women in rural space on this very day, right now. At its 9th session, held on 16 February 2017, the Agricultural Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hunting Act submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government in an act of 9 February 2017. The Agriculture Committee shall be in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held a debate on the proposed law as a home working body. The opening argument was expressed as today by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, stressing that the proposal for a law of Directive 92/43/EEC and 2009/147 EC are being transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and, in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission, extends the period of prohibition of hunting for feathered game in all stages of breeding, rearing of cubs or during the different stages of reproduction or during their return to the areas where the young are raised. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Hunting law. The proposed law also amends the infringement provisions in accordance with the proposed extension of the hunting ban period. In the debate, the Committee members warned that the Hunting Regulation clearly prescribed hunting periods proposed by the amendment and supplementation of the Hunting Act, and the proposing representative explained that the European Commission had warned of the need for direct transposition of the Directive 2009. 147. The EC of the European Parliament and of the Council in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, which requires the proposed amendments and additions to the Hunting Act. The debate highlights the need for comprehensive amendments to the Hunting Law that would regulate damage compensation problems, strengthen the work of hunting associations, regulate possible abuses in the use of concessions on hunting grounds and simplify the process of dealing with predators in populated areas. Representative of the Proposer announced a reference in the procedure for the adoption of comprehensive amendments to the Hunting Act in the second quarter of 2017, for which all appropriate measures were taken, in which all these proposals we discussed would be included in the new Hunting Act that should come into this Assembly. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Hunting Act is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32625	I'm opening a debate. The representative Branimir Bunjac will speak on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's team who have applied for participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32626	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I believe that you, like me in recent days, have been overwhelmed by citizens' questions, why don't we discuss issues such as DORH, executive law, the state of justice, FINA, HRT, HNB, INA, HEP, pension system, minimum wage, VAT, state of the MUP, local elections, fighting drugs. These are all topics on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, some since the constitutional session of 14 October, but they cannot begin the debate, although these are topics which are crucial for the survival of our society in the deep economic and moral crisis. We do not discuss these topics for a reason because every Friday before the vote, the President of the Parliament or his vice-president complement the agenda with European directives and regulations that have priority over all these topics that I have now listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32627	Mr. Bunjac, I'd like you to stick to the subject. Today is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Hunting Act and I would ask Mr. Bunjac if you have any problems with this, you have the possibility of a break and some other kind of address. Do not use the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Hunting Act for some of your topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32628	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. These aren't my themes, I believe 90% of my speech listeners know they're their subjects. And I want to say that today we have been imposed on us on the European directive and this subject of the Hunting Law and I want to tell Croatian citizens what we are going to discuss today. So this was just a 90-second introduction to the law that I now have in my hands. I'll read that we know what we're discussing. "It is forbidden to hunt and harass a female hairy game when she is taller or as she leads small cubs, and a feathered game sitting on her eggs and while feeding her cubs during her hibernation, destruction and adoption of the cubs, and the destruction and damage of the litter, nests and eggs of the game." So it's forbidden to destroy eggs in the nest, but in paragraph 2 of the same law, it's allowed to destroy eggs in the nest under the following exceptions. "The exception of paragraph 1 of this Article may allow a hunting authorisation for the purposes of science, teaching, hunting training of birds of predators, zoos, museums, and socio-cultural and kinological events, with prior permission of the ministry within the limits of those needs of game hunting and their youngsters at a time when hunting is prohibited from damage to the litter and nests and the collection of eggs." Here, zoos are allowed to cross the eggs, is it allowed to do so, but with prior confirmation of the ministry, so that the Ministry of Agriculture instead of solving the issue of empty villages, or let's say that it solves the issue of the economic belt or that it may protect domestic production from imports, it will write certificates to zoos to freely steal five quail eggs or for a kinological exhibition. Here's grand. This law today, as you can see, will change Croatian history. And say what? Is this an urgent topic, is this a priority in Croatian legislation in Croatian political life, or should we have put another topic for the first point of today's agenda? This law represents a classic example of what we call eu bureaucracy. We are discussing topics that will not affect Croatia's fate on the direction of the same person who served us a story a few days ago about accepting arbitration. And now that I'm looking further at this egg-stealing law or whether zoos can get permission from the Ministry of Agriculture, here I can ask a question, we saw a few days ago that in a county in Croatia, pensioners live in the woods, under the clear sky, they don't even have a tent to hide in. And what if this pensioner steals three eggs this law doesn't solve it? If anything, the DORH will come out and punish him as in some other cases, say, as the homeless are punished by the punishments of two thousand kunas or by the beggars by the punishments of three thousand kunas. Let's say the ministry puts in an amendment for pensioners living in the woods to pay a fine of 5,000 kuna for stealing eggs. Maybe it should be built into this law. Among other things, the EU sent us to this Assembly last week laws on how much gas should be in the air conditioning, on which some data will be published on the websites several times. A few years ago, we had laws on the width of the chicken cage, so the chickens were declared illegal, and yet their eggs were illegal. We hear there's a directive coming that's gonna ban the dropping of stale manure in the fields. And how far do we get with that? Should we be surprised that this House was demoted? Should we be surprised that no one here wants to participate in the debate, that 20, 30 people are back in the hall and that all of you after you leave this hall are saying this debate is extremely boring? So, according to this debate that you might actually have nothing more to say than what we said in these two, three replicas. I don't underestimate the importance, it should come to the agenda but when it's the right time and when some other things are solved. I therefore call on the Parliament to turn a little bit of priority and, given that we represent the highest legislative authority in this country, we begin to address issues that are crucial to our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32629	Thank you, counsel Bunjc. I'd like to warn you of a few of the things that have been brought out before I leave with the replicas. Representative Bunjac, I am pleased that you finally said that you do not underestimate it because it is a bit in contradiction with the one at the beginning of the exhibition, you do not underestimate the subject, I agree that there are important topics but as a parliamentary representative you should know the procedure and why and in what way they refer to such draft laws in the procedure. As for this convocation of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament has done 100% more than all the meetings of the Croatian Parliaments since 2007, so it has been debated. And I hope there's more to be done with your engagement. As far as I'm concerned, the Living Wall can submit an amendment that pensioners do not have the right or have the right to steal eggs, that's your freedom, if that's how you wanted to degrade the work of the Croatian Parliament, go ahead. The Parliament had its committees, the committees discussed topics, the moment the committees prepared an opinion at that time coming to the agenda here. And I think it would be quality to meet all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in which the Parliament works and not just collect points. Representative Josip Djekic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32630	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleagues of Bunjac, your criticisms you have referred to are actually the cause of your ignorance of hunting and ignorance of the rules that speak of how hunting is handled. So what's being put into the law today is defined by the Law of Loasting. And it's clearly saying that poaching implies all these definitions that are now listed in the law. So it's only from the hunting rule that now defines the legal obligation. I would be more interested if you looked back at the damage to game, game migration, wildlife habitats and what is most difficult for hunting associations and these are the damages that savages cause on cars, which should be distinguished along with Croatian roads, with the Croatian State. And if the state is the owner of animals that it gives to the management or hunting grounds that it gives to the management of how it can only be a hunter who is responsible for the damage. These are bigger topics than what you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32631	Mr. Bunjac, I'd like to pray at the moment when you want, at the moment I'm going to give a reply to the replica, I'm sorry, I haven't seen, but I'd like to ask all the MPs to lift the bat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32632	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP, I do not dispute that this subject is important to you as a hunter, but you will admit that there are still more important topics such as youth eviction, underprivileged salaries and pensions, too high taxes, questions of ineffectiveness of the judiciary, questions of hungry children in schools. With all due respect to your opinion, I have not been called by a single voter for six months in the Assembly to ask me anything about this issue. But every day, literally every day, people call me because of the big problems so in the functioning of the state administration, because of the big problems in the judiciary. Here today I received a dramatic letter, linked to the Adriatic Bank where people warn of hundreds of millions of kunas. [[The Incursion President: Representative Bunjac, I apologize, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32633	You drew up the situation. And I would hate to see this debate with the Amendment Law and the addition of the Hunting Law in the debate on what the bill is and what reports should be read in the House. Thank you. If it's gonna be in the spirit of what we need to discuss today, it can. [[/Intruder Bunjac: Can I finish?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32634	So, Mr. Representative said it doesn't matter to me. I just wanted to answer him that it was important to me, but that some other things are more important to me in accordance with the opinion of Croatian voters. And I believe that Croatian voters know what I'm talking about and what we're discussing here today. Please, I answer nicely, I don't speak for myself. I'm the medium of people who chose me here, I didn't fall here from Mars, I didn't go down with a parachute, but I have behind me, so the back, the legitimacy gained in the election. Thank you, too. [[/Intruder President: Representative Bunjac. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32635	It is MPs who represent all those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who chose them. The Croatian Parliament also has rules to discuss in the Croatian Parliament and there is no one's right including you to break those rules. You have the opportunity to propose the law, you have the possibility of pauses, you have all the other species by which you can represent all the citizens. And I agree with you. There are more important topics, but since this came to the agenda today, since there's probably a reason you haven't bothered to even check what it's for today, we're discussing it today. Today we are not discussing at this moment which topics are important in the Republic of Croatia, the procedure of the Croatian Assembly and the work in the Assembly is to discuss the Law which is currently in place, and this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Completion of the Hunting Law and I would ask all esteemed MPs and MPs to follow the rules. The SDP representative club also reported for participation in the debate. Representative Nenad Stazic will speak on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32636	Your Honor, this is important, and I would dare say one reform law. What's changing now? So far, Article 52 has protected, for example, feathered game when it sits on its eggs and feeds its young. Now that changes, so that feathered game is protected during the rise of cubs or different stages of reproduction. We don't protect a feathered game anymore when he sits on his balls. It is a major reform procedure that the SDP supports and will vote for. It is precisely in the spirit of all HDZ and MOST promises of major reforms. That's the kind of law that came here. But I would warn the Proposer that he lacks a whole chapter in law. You have failed to miss the hunt for a political game, because for a political game of poachers there is none. Whenever a state attorney wants to shoot someone politically, he does it without even having a hunting season. So Ms. Mayor Merzel, Lovric Merzel shot politically, held six months in custody, and yet there is no indictment. Then it's ours, no, not so I'm talking about hunting politicians, MPs. [[Intruder President: Representative Stazic, please.]] Well, it's in the spirit of the Hunting Law. Missing Well, yeah, the Hunting Act. [[Mr. Stazic, I'm really asking you not to make me make warnings. You understand very well what law is being discussed.]] So I'm trying to warn you that this law protects, for example, a feathered savage. [[Adversity President: And if you have no further constructively added please finish the presentation.]] But he's not protecting Pernar. Pernar gets shot whenever he needs to, his immunity for writing graphite. There's a big game out there. Well, that's good to protect. But then why is it allowed to close our Sauch for seven days? And why not the others? Why not the others? So, I'm warning on behalf of the SDP club that the law is missing, that you're missing a whole chapter, and we're going to do it with some amendment or until the second reading to correct it, to protect ourselves from scrapping. 'Cause we can see there's no lotustoy for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32637	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32638	Dear Croats and Croats, first of all, I congratulate our women on Women's Day. Secondly, our representative Stazic missed the topic, he should have talked about the protection of game, not about the protection of Pernar because our colleague Pernar was not threatened by anything or anyone else. And as for the closure of Sauche, I am for the closure of all those similar to him who can't count to 500 and not a mosque of 500 thousand rabbits. Now I'm gonna get this over with, so I'm gonna go back on the subject so we don't waste any time on these blasts, to this kind of interruption of a fine debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32639	Thank you. Reply to Replicate Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32640	Well, I also tried to talk about your protection. that neither of you should have been removed because you were hammering bilingual plates that were set up under the law. That's one barbaric act. It's an act of savagery...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32641	Representative Stazic, here I will indeed share after this and the warnings and go further punishment if necessary because I would really ask you to stick to today's topic. You produced yourself at the beginning until I gave the opportunity to warn you, you gave Mr. Cule the opportunity to express to you a replica of what you allowed yourself to continue to answer in the spirit of what you want, not in the spirit of today's debate. And so I would ask you and all the other MPs not to make me sharper.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32642	I didn't allow myself to be President. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament allowed me to respond to the replica. If my colleague Culey calls me missing the subject, I have the right to explain to him that I didn't miss the subject and let me explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32643	All right, you explain you have two minutes to explain... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32644	But I'm not in favour of removing immunity from a counsel because of vandalism, I'm not. Let the State's Attorney's office wait for his term to expire, and then let him be persecuted for vandalism. Are you careful breaking bilingual inscriptions it's the same as breaking Jewish windows on crystal night, it's exactly the same. But let it be judged when Culeu's term expires.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32645	Thank you. Representative Josip Djakic would like to refer the replica. I'd like it to be in the spirit of what's on the subject today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32646	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, the theme is the hunting ground on the feathered animals and their eggs and so on, but here's the thing, unfortunately, my fellow Stazic, that he's moved on to politicians and...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32647	If you're going to direct. Thank you very much. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... Representative Djakic does not have the right to reply in that part. We're moving on. The HDZ representative's club reported for participation in the debate on their behalf will be represented by MP Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32648	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. As a representative of the club, but indeed as one who has been dealing with this issue for 36 years now, and I am well aware of it, I have been surprised by the level of this debate and the first, and here is another club that has not touched this law at all and which in some ways offended over 70 thousand who are actively engaged in this profession. If they read at all what this is about, they could see in the very introduction of this law, which is the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, which hunting and hunting problems mean in economic terms, tourism, but also in everything else that is far more important than all of it, which refers to the preservation of the nature of biological and other diversity in our area and the law that regulates this and which deals with it. It's inappropriate what we heard earlier, I didn't want to react to the replicas because we're wasting time and too much attention would be given, but here I would really like to talk about what these amendments really bring to the law. They are truly benign even though Croatian legislation, not only in the last twenty years but over a hundred and more years, knows what the European directive prescribes, and it is prescribed in those provisions relating to hunting. We also have a solution to the Constitutional Court which has practically also led to a correction of this law, and it has been a matter of compensation for the damages of game within the hunting grounds, so hunting societies and those who have been given control of something that no one has said here, and which is good of the general interest of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore this law is very important, so someone who manages and receives a concession for the management of the lease of these hunting grounds, is obliged to do a hunting-economic basis, and is obliged to keep strict account of both the bonity and the structure of game, on the health condition. In the end, it is successfully implemented in the entire country that shows a number of wild game conditions that are in optimal condition throughout the whole area. We can boast of the diversity of this whole system of ours. Based on the Constitutional Court's decision, the Constitutional Court has ordered that this item relating to the damage done by savages who do not keep living in that hunting grounds and whom the hunting authority does not manage. So the legislator has applied what the Constitution has prescribed. However, I will take this opportunity to highlight a problem that will require a slightly greater amendment of the law in terms of what really applies to the damage and damages of savages. Croatia is one of the few, if it is not the only country, where it is a living being, according to courts and court decisions, classified into a dangerous matter. What's this about? It is the damages that hunting companies, hunting authorities in the whole country, pay for the damages of driving on a game. The courts have taken up practice, and according to the Law on Mandatory Relations, game is a dangerous thing. So it's not a dangerous car thing, it's not a dangerous road thing, it's not a dangerous thing or a driver if it's under the influence of alcohol or a speeding train, a dangerous thing is a savage. Regular court practice is such, and I can show you from my example of leading a hunting society in three terms countless judgments where a hunting society in all of these cases had to pay compensation for damages to vehicles that were incurred by a vehicle on a game. A change of law has been attempted to transfer it to a part of the agreement on the road, but it is always in the end repeating this dangerous thing and the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous thing. I think we should apply either German or some of the other European countries model and think, here's the secretary of state at the ministry, that one of the future changes to the law that will mean a lot, that in either the insurance of the vehicle or the technical examination part of the insurance cost is transferred and for the damage to the game. Because the fact is that even with the construction of the highway, the highways are as much but mostly fenced and the damage is much rarer and there are savages on the vehicle. But if you saw it and you were driving towards my Croatian Primor, through Gorski Kotar or through Lika, you saw those green bridges that our road construction boasts and the state is taking care of it, precisely those green bridges are located in the areas of the migration areas of game where game is not 5, 10 or 15, but has been crossing for hundreds of years, therefore changing from winter to summer habitats. And all that time, it was going through these roads that people built roads because of their needs, and they put the roads into operation, they're high-quality, they're fast, and the ride around them is very fast, and the savage doesn't think about it, or think it's something where she should be careful because that area where she was born, where she lived, is considered her own and simply those roads that were cut into the corridor of those roads and necessarily comes up with such vehicle crashes. This is an appeal and a really serious appeal. I am sure that in the ministry, not only in the current government's meeting but also in all previous ones, they have received a whole series of demands from the Croatian Hunting Union, by hunting societies, that this is regulated in a completely different way. Insurance houses when hunting companies go into insurance from damages, from vehicle crash. In the beginning, after the first year of insurance, when they saw what was going on live and what was the case, they immediately doubled not in the beginning but in the tenfold, not to mention tripled the insurance premiums for the compensation of such damages. Here we have a whole series of webs of circumstances that practically do not only harm hunting society but also harm hunting. Some hunting companies had to pay for the damages of over 200, 300, even 400 thousand kuna. So the damages that the court ordered continued to have an impact on the investments in the hunting grounds. Because hunting as many laymen and... Those before me who debated this banalized the demand for great investment, hard work, effort on the ground. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, there would be no game situation as it is, we wouldn't be able to boast about the spread of a black bear and we wouldn't be able to settle it somewhere in our area in the French Alps or in Spanish or in some other country where it's completely gone. So the investment in the hunting grounds is huge and it stems from the obligation to hunt down the economic grounds that hunting societies were obliged to make. It provides exactly what type of food in which it is displayed in the hunting grounds, which hunting facilities, technical, nutritious, automatic, how much the area of the hectare for a particular hunting structure must be processed, horticulturally, how much crops must be planted, how much food care must be taken during the winter months or in the time it is stated here, the time of hunting, the time of breeding of all these savages. So the appeal stands, I believe that the ministry will respect and I think that in cooperation with the Croatian Hunting Union, because we have had experience in the past and it has been laid to rest for years since the beginning of the last century when the entire studies were carried out, all this time and when it is truly studioically devoted to this whole problem. The fact is that there are also problems that will require in the subsequent amendments to the law, this is the problem of alochtone savages of the type of game on the island of Cres, Krka, I am talking about wild pigs but also the type of game that gradually settled and the problem of the coal that appears in the Croatian Primorje which until recently was virtually unknown. There's also a problem with the introduction of a lynx that's automatically and a lynx from our area was practically completely gone. During the introduction, there was no concern, so a much larger, much stronger, and much greater damage to the rest of the game was brought to our territory. So that's one problem that really needs to be taken care of. And not to be too long, I'm going to look back, I really need to look back at my predecessors' debates because they were really offensive in the way they talked about the banalization of this law and about some much more important laws. All laws are important and the most important thing is for them to be just and fair. And I think that in this sense the new Hunting Act that will definitely need will bring a lot of these things that I've been talking about and here I'm pointing out on purpose that part that applies to game fees because he's in the whole area of Dubrovnik, through Dalmatia, my Croatian Primor, my Gorski Kotar, like, Slavonia, Zagorje, so great that some hunting societies are even ahead of a financial collapse and we're not saying that most of them are funded by what he pays and the lease of that hunting ground, mostly from the membership of his membership, and how many of our citizens are concerned, so when we count the members of the shooting clubs, the other associations, the kinological alliances, all the others who came out of that kind of hunting wings, it's about over a hundred thousand of our citizens of the Republics, and they're important. And it's important that we discuss this law. Well, if we're gonna lose one in the morning, I don't think we've lost too much. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32649	Thank you to Agent Tomislav Klaric. The replica was reported by a representative of the Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32650	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague. I'd like to read you article 50. Road law, and Article 50. The Law on Roads, therefore not this law that we are now discussing, but the Law on Roads says: “The damage of savages is the damage. For the damage suffered by third parties on a public road due to an attack on the game, blame is based on guilt. The legal person who manages the public road, i.e. the concessionary, shall be responsible for the damage referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article on the public road if the public road, at the request of the person who manages the hunting grounds, is not marked by traffic signalling and equipment in accordance with specific regulations." But I can't agree with your exposure to the part where you start talking about just being treated like dangerous things by a savage. A dangerous thing also treats a motor vehicle. A motor vehicle is generally treated as a dangerous thing, for example in cases where we're talking about a motor vehicle running into pedestrians. However, you must always take into account the criteria of protected goods. Human life and human health as a protected well is a far greater criterion than the animal’s health and preservation. In this context, I do not keep a good part of your debate correctly, but what I fully agree with you is that we must start to consider alternative ways of solving this problem. You were talking about an example of where a clause would be installed through compulsory insurance, which would mean additional collection of mandatory car insurance for drivers, but since the liberalisation of the car insurance market resulted in a drastic reduction in prices I think at this point your proposal should absolutely be considered and accepted and headed in that direction. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32651	Representative Tomislav Klaric, reply to the replica,
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32652	A fellow coat of arms, when you mentioned the Law of the Roads, when you mentioned everything you were right. However, I said one word: “Court practice. ” So I can bring you a whole series of judgments that talk about exactly what I'm talking about right now. So the case law is such that it has taken such a stand. And at the trial hearing, and believe me, I've been watching a lot of them since every traffic sign has its own importance, I don't know 300 meters behind and outside. After that 300 meters, and rarely which road will have so many signs that it will be able to cover it all. Mostly it always comes down to everything that you said rightly that human life is important. Yes, human life is important, but the court always tends to make up for damages, and the damage of having to make up for someone who's probably some kind of association, an institution, or someone who's more. But you don't see the guilt of what happened because you and I, when I get in my car, are aware that we're sitting in a dangerous situation and we're aware that we need to follow up on something that's going on there. And this believe me, it would be minor if all vehicles in the Republic of Croatia were paid for that amount of 15, I don't know 20, I don't believe there would be more than 50 kuna on the insurance premium, to cover all the damages and relieve the Croatian Hunting Union and the hunting societies of a huge burden that disturbs them in their management. I'm referring to the management of the hunting grounds, something that is the wealth of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32653	Representative Ivan Kirin reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32654	Dear President of the Parliament, Honorable Representative Klaric. I think the debate on hunting is an important and important debate because hunting is one segment of the economy that is important and important. But I would ask you, Mr. Klaric, as a hunter, as head of local self-government one question or to answer your opinion of alochton game, about the damage it makes to tourism, local or island agriculture and livestock farming. And secondly, how do you solve this problem? Whether it can be solved simply by eradicating alochton savages and by returning to the islands regardless of hunting tourism that is a bit of developing state, let's say, at a time when it was in Roman times. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32655	Replica response, MP Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32656	My colleague Kirin, I was indeed because the Primorje-Gorski County was launched by savages, i.e. the elimination of savages on the island of Cres. I was the only time in that hunt, and I must admit that it may be ugly to say, that I felt very uncomfortable and bad about the fact that something was practically exterminated in that area, even at a time when this provision was mentioned here, which we bring up at a time when the shirts were led by young people. But the biggest problem is the first thing that ever happened during Yugoslavia, I suppose, for the purposes of our then president and his world. The problem is much bigger, because if you remember, and you're from my neighborhood what the island of Krk looked like when we were young, how many savages were there, how many processed surfaces, how many were there. So the savage landed on the sea itself. Here in our industrial zone in Bakru, inside the industrial zone we also have a wild pig and deer that are even in medals, and we have bears that swim on the island of Krk at Schmricka and Scott bays. So there's a lot of stuff and it's hard to find the right level there. If we see that agriculture and livestock are truly cared for before, and that many now have sheep on the island of Krk that walk every day. And we have that spray on the sheep, so the blue is mine, and your red is the green one, and the green one is our neighbor's. And then we have these skins a lot that smell, and then the bear there from the Vindol community swims on Shiloh and then feeds on it. So the problem needs to be seen much wider than just what we see from the media and what we see. The fact is that it's a huge problem, the fact is that they're doing too much damage to agriculture and there's too much damage to that. But such a problem without a state, the ministry will be difficult to solve on its own. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32657	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32658	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Klaric, it should be pointed out once again, you have said this here in relation to local self-government units, hunting associations are associations that are self-financed, it is very important. Most associations are funded from the budget, and hunting associations are those associations that are mostly themselves financed. They have, I agree with you, a great responsibility, and I find this proposal of yours related to insurance, it seems logical. I changed the windscreen three times on my car because the rock hit the ride and it broke. I think the rush of stone and the rush of savages is... it's the accidents that happen. Now, besides that, we should pay attention to one more thing, and that's when it comes to jurisdiction. In the area of a local self-government unit, it ran into a county road owned by a county, so there was a savage on a vehicle or a vehicle on a game, I don't know what it was now and now to cut the story short, instead of that savage who had been killed eating, even if the association had eaten, that savage had spent all day because she didn't really know who was going to take that game away. The Hunting Association, no game chip so that they know whose property it is, if this is done by the hygiene service in the unit area of local self-government, it has to be paid because that contract is not defined by the standard contract, so these are the problems that any future amendments to the law should think about and of course there are crop damages, which you also mentioned. And these aren't small insurances that hunting associations pay to insurance companies. These are quite large sums for hunting societies and, in that sense, should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32659	Replicate reply by Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32660	My colleague, the local self-government unit, as far as I know, at least that's how we have contracts with hygiene services for such services. The communal directors are on call and immediately reacts, and with us it works very well, I don't know what it's like with you or a veterinary facility or someone who does it. The competition is announced, the contract is concluded and they regularly serve it. So all the bodies found on the roads or in the area... they are purchased within the local self-government unit and are definitely cared for as a result of disinfection, disinfection and the rest. This is ultimately the legal obligation of the local self-government unit. I am glad that you and your colleague, Peja Grbin, and I believe the vast majority here in the Parliament agree with this proposal because I do not see any other solution to how to get to the problem of the damage caused by savages. And what you mentioned in the crops, here, if you have seen these changes to the law by the Constitutional Court, is said unless this one has taken measures to prevent these damages. So that's where I come in some kind of situation where it's agricultural and when we put in a financial problem because he won't get damages if he hasn't adequately fenced up his entire property that can be a very large and much bigger investment in protection in him than he'll be incomeing from the income from that part itself. So through insurance or through the insurance model from those fees because they're not daily. They are daily at the level of all Croatia but in the area of certain units of local self-government are not so common that they could not be serviced through this type of insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32661	Thank you. The SDSS representative's club has reported for participation in the debate and will be addressed by a representative of Mile Horvat on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32662	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the distinguished representatives of the ministry, the secretary of state with an associate. I will try to comment on these amendments to the Hunting Act even though those at first sight, as Honored counterpart Klaric said, agreeing fully with whose discussion. So it's about benign changes, but through two articles I think they've opened a very serious fundamental debate on an economic branch called hunting. In my view, hunting is a business branch, it is also an ecological component, hunting is sport, hunting is also a tourist branch because some data say that last year, based on hunting tourism in Croatia, more than seven thousand tourists or hunters have come to Croatia, and we know that hunters are very generous customers and very well paid and that hunting is a very expensive sport. But hunting is for me first of all science, and I'll try to explain it in a few sentences. And that's why it's not good to talk about this hunt as one serious activity at a time. Of course, there does not have to be an interest of colleagues, there must be no public interest either, it is an individual commitment, but the fact that hunting is more problematic and more debated at regional level, in the county parliaments than discussed in Parliament. I don't remember talking to you about hunting once. I don't think that's good, and I hope when he wakes up he's passed a new law on hunting, an integral law that will then be an opportunity to talk about everything. That's why I wanted to give some of my thinking, so if they help with the new law, help, if not, no. I'm saying because in my life I had one privilege that I started working on the first professional steps of a then very large hunting firm called the hunting-wood economy of Jelen, which had one part of the territory in Croatia, forest space and hunting space, areas, one part of Vojvodina and it was a brand of hunting, hunting brand, and I had the privilege of listening to science take care of hunting, how one respected doctor, one... The story of the deer, the development of deer savages, how he spent his whole life following a common deer, how he gained vast experience, that a Dr. Đuro Nikolandić doctor from Osijek dedicated his entire life to observing the development of the venison of game, as Mr. Todorovic made the concept of integrated hunting management that was the very top of hunting theory back in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm sorry that those experiences were so easily rejected by the intruding of everything that was in the past system is not good. We will start over with some new theories and it is not good because we have rejected the experiences of 30 and more years of hard work and research, monitoring and development of deer savages, because we eventually came to the very top of hunting tourism for some monetary effect and for the value of some hunting trophies. So that's the scientific component that we talked a little bit about and that today's hunting a little bit, thinking that hunting is just a kill, that hunting is that meat that you can see, that hunting is that tourism that's being charged. No, hunting is a very expensive and long-term activity. One deer to remind you that you have to invest in it for 11 to 12 years. And that's the thing we should talk about maybe some other time. So I decided to comment on these two articles, Article 2 of the amendment, which, in which the EU directive was incorporated, was incorporated in my view from an alarming situation because apparently someone saw that the ornithological component was very weak, that the feathered game in Europe was threatened and threatened with us and that there was something to be done, by a decadent ban as stated in Article 2. The confirmation of this is also a very good explanation for young colleague Mikushka, whom I greatly appreciate because I knew his father and I know that he speaks very well when he talks about the state of ornithology in Croatia in this part where you gave in an explanation of this law. And that should be done, this complaint of his should pay very great attention because man has very professionally dealt with the subject of ornithology. And warned about the state of the feathered game and the state is very alarming. However, Article 3, this is a benign article that said in Article 83 paragraph 1 in which this savage is constantly being wiped out. And the end, almost, we don't know what it's all about anymore. However, it is essential that, in my opinion, you have now taken advantage of this opportunity to implement the instructions of the Constitutional Court and deleted Articles 3 and 4 and ended up as counterpart Klaric said responsibility for the damages of all savages under one category. So don't make a difference anymore between constantly inhabited gamers in the hunting grounds and migrant savages. And now that we're dealing with the dominant hunting system where the owner of the game is a community, that is, society and it's transferring its right to use, that's what cut-offs and savages transfer to users by concession or lease contract, that is, that is, the model that we adopted in Europe, then you gave the opportunity to cut off game through a hunting lease, you gave this to the tenant under certain conditions. And now under these certain conditions, the basis for using is the hunting economic base. On that hunting economic basis, you have something, some kind of game fund or no game fund. And if you don't have a game fund that you owe through a hunting economic base, there's a game that migrates and does damage, then it's illogical that you're determined by this legal provision to be responsible for the damage that's only in transit and which you can't control, you can't even shoot to make up for the damage. You've made this thing pretty simple around here. I consider this only a transitional phase. Because if this is the definition of Article 3, it's not good for me. So in general you said, the general responsibility for the damage from the game is to hunt the tenant. There's no explanation. Although the Constitutional Court's decision says it is a new legislative solution, it must clearly prescribe assumptions of compensation for the migrant savage. Therefore, in the next phase, when you are prescribing, when you are passing a full hunting law, you must take care of this category of savages that makes damage evident and find a model, develop a model of how to make a distinction between damage on that basis and damage based on game that is in the hunting economic debt of every hunting society. I think that if, every other solution will be unfair to hunting societies because we can't generalise, make hunting societies absolutely fit for all the damages that are happening on their territory and we know that hunting societies like Col. Klaric said don't have basic incomes other than membership fees, all hunting societies are almost under some kind of blockade, can't be financed from these memberships and simply their functioning comes down to vegetation. And that's the quality of the hunt then. So we have to look at it in some broader context. When it comes to damages on motor vehicles that are the most sensitive thing, I'll say here that some data suggests that the damage per year to vehicle savages is exceeding nearly 20 million kunas per year. It's big money. How do you find a ratio between that and some kind of just damage? What's the model of fair damage? The Mandatory Relations Act said that in some way. He also defined practice in some way as it was said. However, practice says that this is not the best solution. Practice suggests that court proceedings in these cases are very long and expensive. Practice says it all depends on the assessment of the first cop coming out to see if you've exceeded speed or not. If you have exceeded speed according to his assessment, you have not adapted to driving conditions, you are to blame for the run-in of savages. If he said that he made a more favourable finding for you in that finding, then you adjusted your driving conditions, then for the damage of the savages, a hunting society is responsible that can't pay you at all. You can sue him. He doesn't have the money, so that's you and things are going round and round. Ensuring, the insurance company model worked for a while. When insurance companies began to be engulfed with such damage claims, they increased the premium multiple. Since there is no legal obligation of hunting societies to ensure this form of damage then they are not even provided. Therefore, we have found ourselves in this very delicate situation to compensate for the damage of savages in a vicious circle. We don't have any quality solution for that. I don't see him right now. So it would be good to open up some kind of debate, that experts and legal professionals, people with certain experience say something about it. Also, the responsibility for the damage to the game on crops is a very dangerous condition. Because it's not a problem, it's a problem for everyone. However, when a savage enters your board of 100 ha, and I have here a video of eight days ago in the Baranja area of Popovac municipality, where my colleague shoots and tracks a herd of deer over 150 pieces of game in a board of 100 ha of sown corn. So, where those 150 pieces of deer savages pass, there's no more harvesting. Who's going to be responsible for that? Is a hunting society domestically that has no chance of having no basis for hunting game management, which is probably a game that has migrated from neighbouring Hungary. Who's going to be responsible for that? Who's gonna pay that man for the damage? Insurance does it in a way that and when you've secured yourself from that risk the damage will be minimal damage because the insurance company is trying to minimize it. Therefore, I think that the general assessment of such situations must be responsible for these forms of damage. If game is generally good, if it's the natural wealth of all of us as it says in the law, then the responsibility of that general good, of that natural... must be on the burden of a state-wide wider community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that kind of model I think should be made in the future. And a third thing I'd draw attention to. We never talked about the fact of how and under what conditions concessions were shared, the hunting ground in concessions. We talked and we know that local, or regional self-government was giving hunting grounds to hunters. I have here the information of the last Assembly of Osijek-Baranja County, a report on what conditions hunting companies received annually at which prices of annual bounty were given hunting grounds for use. Do we know under what conditions public hunting concessions have been awarded for 30 years? We never officially got that information. I'm afraid here, so I have the right to speak in fact, but I'm afraid the same thing has been done for agricultural land, so for very cheap money, you've been given the opportunity to use social well-being for 30 years, and that the social community has nothing in return. So if under cheap money you get a concession on a national hunting ground, except that you run a team in your own interest, in the interest of your own hunting tourism state other than that fine concession you pay nothing and society does not benefit from it. And it would be good if one day we could get some information to see under what conditions these concessions on state hunting grounds were given 15 or 20 years ago. We will support these amendments to the law, but I think that a serious debate and profession and interested social entities should precede the integrated new text should give answers to these two, three key issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32663	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Milly Horvato, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32664	Dear fellow Horvat, first of all, thank you for joining me in giving seriousness to this topic that was commissioned at the beginning by representatives of the SDP and the Living Wall club, undermining this problem in their performance and politicizing this topic. What you've been up to in my debate, and it certainly needs to be pointed out is the economic importance of this branch. So, we're talking about something, I'm inviting everyone in Varazdin to the hunting and fishing fair, so you'll see that hunting isn't just that rifle and some kind of hunter in the woods that shoots at something, that it's one huge capital in that sense of running various economic branches from gun production, ammunition, down to fishing equipment, for hunting, clothing, clothes, I don't know everything that's not now in huge quantities. When you mentioned that 20 million damage on the vehicles, that's the problem. 20 million has to be paid. He pays the one who doesn't have money, or who has money to pay the State's lease on the hunting grounds, in order to fulfil the obligations of the hunting-economic base in the matter of breeding and the protection of game. And then we get into a situation where we can't take full advantage of all that power of that economic branch without talking about that amount of damage that's on the farm, which you touched when a herd of something comes into the board of farmed wheat or corn. So that's one problem that we have to fully look at, and in any case, the ministry on our part, we mandaters on our part, but this part that applies to the damage itself from savages definitely has to be regulated in a different way because this kind of thing is unnatural. We pay damages for something we don't master and the state gives us such a legal solution, and the fact is that the Constitutionals are in their solution didn't even say it was stated in this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32665	I thank my esteemed colleague, Klaric, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32666	I agree with you, colleague Klaric, so the Constitutional Court is well-read by the Constitutional Court verdict and has made it very clear how this dilemma should be resolved because I assume that the motioner will resolve it in that full text. This is a transitional solution and it could be accepted as such, but if it stays that way, then it's not good. Then again, we have created a legal vacuum of one legal inconsistencies that will in practice be a problem. The second thing, hunting and hunting is at EU level or in EU countries with great traditions such as Germany, Austria, such as Italy is a very large and profitable industry. And hunting and hunting isn't just a kill of savages. I insisted on the science component because we were in a situation in our space, that you have the fact that the deer and that tall gamer, the wild pig, don't have a natural predator. And if a man doesn't start and science controls the lives of that population, then it becomes a problem for the community and for the environment. So it becomes a physical problem through damage through some other things, and other than that, if that thing wants to rise to a higher level, a profitable level to achieve very high medals, you have to invest a lot in a single one. Whoever's doing this knows what we're talking about, whether through selection, through selection, through sanitary blades, through regular triggers, control of genetics, etc. I don't want to spread the subject. So this is a scientific component, I insist on the scientific component of hunting, not what is banalized through the media. The hunter puts the gun away to shoot to make sausages.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32667	I thank my esteemed colleague Horvato for his reply. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32668	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Horvat, I appreciate your knowledge and experience in hunting, and it is good to mention that hunting or hunting tourism can be one of the forms of tourism that would extend the season of tourism to the Republic of Croatia and give an opportunity for economic activities on this plan. And you have well suggested that the Ministry of Agriculture look at this possibility together with the Ministry of Tourism, the Croatian Hunting Union in which to facilitate the flow of hunters, weapons, dogs across borders and how to promote Croatia as a hunting destination because the fact that Baranja and Slavonska Posavina were once more visited by hunters and where we had significant incomes. This is now coming back to life, but there are plenty of administrative barriers that we can solve together. And I agree with you that it can't be a burden on hunting associations only to solve the problem of traffic damage but to find a model of how to get these hunting associations to know that most of our hunters are especially in Slavonia and Baranja with small incomes or unemployed and that they finance their own associations and that we even have some associations that are blocked and can't function because of these damages, there must be a way to find out whether it's through vehicle insurance, whether it's through the insurance of road owners for the damages of savages and try to find those models. But I wanted to point out another problem. We will protect certain species of birds through hunting, etc. by this law, but in Slavonska Pavina, we see a nail as a predator that we have not yet had in hunting-economic bases, which does great damage both to the feathered game and to the deer. And you must be seen together with the Croatian Hunting Union and the organizations that rule there in which way this predator puts into hunting-economic foundations especially that Europe wants to protect him as a species that is endangered, while we see that he has been overnumbered which has not been recorded so far, and scientifically find models why this is happening and how this problem is solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32669	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his replica. Answer, dear colleague Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32670	Dear fellow, I think there's a lot of education missing in public. We should begin to educate citizens on the social components of social life that remain like this on margins that are not of great interest. And hunting, therefore not hunting, through hunting societies, but hunting as an activity, as a branch, and I repeat as a science special, is very marginalized in society and then perception in the public is what the first information is. And I must say there was no time to say, there is a certain relationship between hunting and nature protection that is not too stimulating. So the guards think the thing needs to be preserved, and hunting has a theory that everything needs to be integrated in some way, and they need to be served to each other. So, I agree that ornithologists have the right to paint birds, but also ornithologists have to know that they can't do it in Kopački rit in the 4th or 5th month when the calf is being maimed or that they can't do it at the beginning of the 6th month at the end of the 5th, because it's a disturbance of natural peace and habitats for these processes. So this thing needs to be coordinated in some way, and I think it takes a lot of training for people to know what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32671	I thank my esteemed colleague Horvato for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32672	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, I wish to congratulate all my colleagues on their day, as well as all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. HNS advocates women's rights, and they can establish, and it's visible here and in the Assembly more than any other club, simply because in our club of 10 members we have six colleagues and only four men. So not only on the declarative level, but practically. But here, I'll be back on the subject. Amendments and additions to the Hunting Act, I will look back at the debate and the position that the HSN and HSU Club has on hunting itself, on the importance of hunting, and on the discussions of its predecessors. Hunting is a scientific discipline. Many, both colleges and many and doctors of science, academics, through dozens and even centuries have written about hunting, talked about hunting, many here colleagues have pointed out the importance. It is also acceptable to adopt these amendments and supplementes, i.e. the inclusion in our legislation of the European Union regulations. It is the migration species during the breeding period or their return to the areas and we can accept it as such. However, I would like to emphasise, and in the debate, I will highlight a series of dilemmas that may not be directly related to the changes themselves, but in some ways they are. Here, I'll go in Article 52 of the amendments are acceptable. However, what is disputed by us in the HNS is part of the one that remains in Article 52, that is paragraph 2. Well, I'll read it. So in the part where a poacher can allow for the purposes of science, teaching, hunting training, birds of predators, zoos, museums, etc., with the permission of the Ministry of Wildlife and their cubs at the time when hunting is forbidden to damage the litter and nests and to collect eggs. We can accept for the needs of science, we can accept for the purposes of continuing the hunting training of predator birds. It's simply unacceptable to us. It's unacceptable and we're going to make an amendment here. The needs of zoos. What zoos? Is it commercial? Whether to explore again, whether to renew species or something, it is questionable, and socio-collective and kinological events. First we define that we will not disturb, we fully agree but now we will make an exception. I wouldn't want to be misunderstood and doubted whether to use the whim if it were someone's whim or simply not knowing. Can't hunting bird training be done at a hunting season? Is it not possible to do sociological and kinological events at a time of poaching like this? I think I can. That's why I don't see why you left out any changes to this membership, I'd like to hear an explanation for that. Furthermore, in Article 3, an article of the existing Law 83 is deleted: “In which this savage lives all the time. ” Well, I can simply agree with that because no game has built-in GPS, a system that we can decadently claim that it lives 100 meters from the border of the hunting grounds or a kilometer or I don't know how many. I can agree with that. Further, however, it is harmful to read, and Article 83 says: “For the damage committed by a gamer in a hunting grounds is the catcher’s responsibility, ” and now this part is deleted:“ The part in which this gamer lives. ” But what's controversial here and I believe that there will be a topic that has been announced to change more fully the Hunting Law, which is with that part, which is with that savage who does the damage outside the hunting grounds, 200 meters of mountain-mounted, 300 meters of settlement borders in the lowland areas. It's the same game that's under Article 52. The constitution is well of interest to the Republic of Croatia, the same savage for whom the poacher is responsible, she seems to be no one's. The legal option is given, though, so it's prescribed, means that the game protection programme means that units of local self-government or I don't know the legal, physical person designs the program. To be honest, I think there is, the only thing I know in our Varazdin County is that it's made by a town of Vidovec, it's a kind of crow. They were doing a lot of damage. But I don't know what it's like to be honest and what it's done to win. In my opinion, in our opinion, at the HNS club, in accordance with Article 52. The Constitution where game is good of interest to the Republic of Croatia and also the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia not only in the case outside the hunting grounds but I will continue to continue teaching to harm the savages that are causing why the state avoids it? Why doesn't he solve the termologically? Because I'm going to go back to history, I don't know, what centuries, by expanding the population, not just in Croatia, Europe, the world, we've reduced the habitats of existing savages. A man for many years may have been more intensely, say, two centuries back, in a way, set himself up as some kind of regulator of the number of savages. It also spreads in Croatia, although the number of citizens is decreasing but let's be realistic and objective, the number of settlements is expanding. The fact is also, as far as hunting is concerned, there was no talk, I believe, but we are all more or less aware of what happened to both hunting and game during and after the Homeland War, invaluable damage in certain hunting grounds. And even in those hunting grounds that weren't in the occupied or the war zone. We're aware of everything, the poaching that was done at the time, hunting with an inadequate type of weapon of caliber. What happened to unskilled management then with savages, so we also had a mix of species especially in black game, so we had, apart from uncontrollable gunshots very few statistics exist as much as when you look at the quality or shot capital game given the number, to the quality of sorry, the quality of the trophy trend is now positive. But take the statistics from there in '97, eighth, then all the way up there by 2003, fourth year. The quality of the trophy was in decline. Now it's a trend of growth. It only speaks with respect to the biology of every kind of noble game primarily how long it is a long, painful and expensive job. This gentlemen isn't a hobby. I especially say that to those who have one dose of misunderstanding first of all I will give speeches about this topic and the problem. Yeah, what about this 300-metre space that's not a hunting ground? I would like to get an answer to that question and this part of the legal solution that must be made a game protection programme is unacceptable, simply unacceptable because it did not revive in practice and such regulation is not good. So the Hunting Act means hunting, but so does game. So you've got newspaper articles in handcuffs walking around a certain neighborhood. The configuration of the settlement, relief, 300 m, you take from each side 250 and inside that corridor you have woods, you have meadows, you have orchards and you have foxes. It's a lot of damage. Who's responsible for that? Hunters can't go in there. And what is the biggest problem, and I believe that there is a way that it can be regulated in a practical way, that citizens who report damage are not walking. They're going to the hunters, and the hunters are walking to the MUP, so let's go to the vet, and they end up at the mayor's, and then we're all going round and round together. I think the changes to the law should go that way and solve that problem. And I would suggest there are signs of hunting-economic surfaces being one topic, and the hunting ground is something else entirely. The hunting ground is everything. And I believe that a more quality explanation could be shared with what it's all about. So you can't take off responsibility, and by this case it's savages, it's predators and it's causing huge damage to chickens. So in a closed, fenced area of foxes, kunas, weasels. I don't know about the creature because I don't have that data. That's too bad, big damage to the feathered game. He lives in a hunting grounds, causing damage outside the hunting grounds. Try to find a measure, but don't move again in a way to local self-government, to switch to someone whose responsibility is not. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Wildlife is of the interest of the Republic of Croatia it needs to be a focus, it needs to be a focus and from here from this base you should start to solve this problem. Furthermore, as far as the damage is concerned, there have been certain proposals whether car insurance is difficult to find. To be honest, all solutions can be acceptable, but it is certainly unacceptable for those solutions that go to the burden of hunting associations. First of all, I have experience from the company where I worked, where we had to go to state hunting sites on Saturdays and Sundays as young engineers for breeding fires, sanitary fires, etc. And it didn't exactly prove that hunting was profitable when everything went down and drew a line. It's the wrong perception and it's a completely wrong perception that I'm simply angry with certain associations, I'm not going to name, their perception is completely distorted. And simply in that part, it is necessary to find the right measure to seek through legal solutions and to point to this poor perception, that is to correct an injustice that seems to be done to hunters, hunting associations. Sometimes I remember, too, that there were certain members of hunting societies for meat. Today it's not secondary, it's tertiary, it's not a topic anymore. Tropheus, recreation, tourism, the economy completely. It's a focus and it should be based on it. And to all hunters and hunters today, there's a big confession to be given today, a big confession because whoever we all have. I'm not an active member anywhere, but you have a lot of people. Hunting him through the association is an extremely expensive sport not only regarding the purchase of adequate weapons for firearms, equipment, etc. but requires great, great love, responsibility for mastery I will return to Article 52. The Constitution is well-interested in the Republic of Croatia. I hope so, and I'm using this opportunity here, and all my colleagues who have debated this, that this will be part of your call public debates for one whole change. And in the second reading, we're going to do the article I mentioned, I think it's 52. Paragraph 2 of the amendment, and I would like you to respect it precisely for the reason that I should say to this other side, which has a negative view of hunting to show good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32673	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milorad Batinic, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32674	Dear fellow Batinic. Hunting and hunting is primarily a huge love and a huge giving to nature, forests, game, animals and all that is there. Tens of thousands of our citizens witness that. It's a controversial case that you mentioned, which refers to some kind of hunting society's flesh, they solve it on their own. So rigorous are within our regulations beyond these laws and statutes and rules and rules and rules and rules and everything else. You are in part of your debate which is very high-quality and I fully support it in that sense I believe that the Secretary of State will accept it and that a full change in this part of the law is needed. When we talk about what's outside the hunting grounds and the problems, we now bring off the hunting companies to local self-government units. So 300 meters inside the village of hunters is practically forbidden any activity in the area. The MUP was first unmanned to perform such a thing, and you mentioned foxes in the Adriatic in the centre of some tourist zone of the town of Crikvenica, it is a regular phenomenon that the bear comes to us... for the trash in front of someone's villa, house or that the breeder with wild pigs is now walking there. So the police in that area are ineffective, the hunters are banned from access to that part, and the damage is something that is permanent, and I'm not talking about the tourist season. So looking at this problem from only one point of view that responsibility is on some kind of hunting society, a hunting authority, a hunter's leaser, and not on the one whose common good it is. And... the good of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the state in that sense responsible for the damage and worry about it is something that needs to be defined and prescribed by law to do so. And not to be given the court practice that I was talking about in my debate, takes a stand, takes the view that it's some kind of dangerous thing the Law on Mandatory Relations and regularly imposes on the burden of the hunt-authors on the company of some of the damages costs. So it's one huge area, and I'm not talking in a part that's very economically interesting to the Republic of Croatia, and someone who's practically volunteering in all of it for tens of thousands, a hundred thousand, 72 thousand seems to me to be registered hunters, when we look at their families, members, kinological associations, hunting shooting and all those who deal with it, it's over 100 to 120 thousand people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32675	I thank my esteemed colleague, Klaric, for the replica. The answer to the esteemed colleague Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32676	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, colleague Klaric, we are all facing more or less locally, especially with this problem I was talking about, but all the hunters who have their hands tied are faced with the same problem. And I say, it's not good for the citizens, that those who are damaged to walk from door to door. So I'm saying, that's why it's a suggestion and I'm glad that the secretary of state follows closely, listens and he knows about this problem definitely, is not his first time now, but let's all go together and find a quality solution and a way. I would like to highlight a good one, I say from my own experience with hunting associations, simply for the reasons of all their actions, and yet under the role of protection and citizens themselves we know when there were phenomena and anger, overnumerities, etc., we simply co-financed certain things from the budget. I believe that a large number of local self-government units are ready, but someone has to lead it. It must be led by someone who understands, who knows, who is entrusted with the management of savages. I don't send to the MUP, with all due respect, but I wouldn't want to take anything in jurisdiction that I don't know, which I don't understand. There is also good cooperation regarding veterinary cells and the provision of hygiene services, the collection of carcasses, etc., within the settlements and all that expensive, however, there are a number of things. What's the problem? Here's an article I don't know somewhere in Rovinj or where, a wild pig lay for three days, didn't know whose jurisdiction it was, etc. There's a series of situations like that. So, savage, that's why I'm saying that, and that's why my debate was going on, Article 52. The constitution, the game is good of interest and let's not do it well with the interest of ownership of the Republic of Croatia toss 300m out, inside or not know how much. In that context, I wanted to make a contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32677	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32678	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Batinic. Well, I agree with your debate, of course, and we have the same problems, but I want to make a little more emphasis on some things in this part. Not only is it when you talk about foxes that they moved to forests or shrubs near houses or between houses, no, they enter the courtyards so they are in rural areas today settled in old stables, some buildings in economies where old people live or where no one lives. And definitely what you've pointed out yourself, all that problem ends up being brought down to a local self-government that has no solution. And I don't think at this point we have time to wait for a new whole law to be passed, which is definitely going to solve these things, rather than having to intervene, we simply have to by some regulation by some act from the ministry or whoever makes something, to do something, to be able to react and prevent it. I have one case from two years ago where the fox literally came into the yard and where she grabbed the chicken, dragged her by the wing that the old lady who was in that yard held a chicken for one wing, a fox for the other at four o'clock in the afternoon, in the middle of the village. And of course, people ask how to solve it, not to talk about wild pigs and the damage they do to private crops. And there's one more thing that needs to be pointed out very important, that's what I said to the Committee on Agriculture. We need to separate the commercial hunting grounds from the hunting grounds held by the associations. Associations keep that space and take care of savages and cannot compete commercially on the market, they cannot and must not, because they have a special interest. No one here mentions county but countys question concessions, so they charge concessions. Local self-government, city and municipality, nothing, we only have expenses that are constantly getting bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32679	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrga, for the replica. And the answer, dear fellow Batinic, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32680	Well, I'm glad you're a colleague of the pack that let's say you've deepened this one and updated the additional problem. Well, as far as the 83rd Amendment article is concerned, it means in the part where that savage lives all the time, I say it's acceptable. However, it is unacceptable to say about the damage committed by game in the hunting grounds and the hunting grounds we know that 30 metres from the edge of the settlement is nobody's land. That's what I'm talking about. And a large number of predators that have adapted, acclimatized where I wouldn't even want to suspect the intelligence of animals, because they probably know that within 300 meters no one will shoot at them, they have their own dens, especially foxes, etc. We have, I agree in the rural area, we have a large number of border areas you have 50, 100 meters to the forest, kuna, weasel, totally fine. Of course we should respect that we are, too, the man is the first to reduce the surface of the habitat of savages. And I primarily advocate co-existence. Because we've also become regulators, a number of savage states, but we also have to take responsibility for what she's doing. And when I said that many of the number, a large number of local units, that we are ready, regardless of what we do not charge a concession for hunting grounds, we are ready to engage in the well-being of our citizens, that does not mean by automation as it is now legal solution, let the eating be made, the game protection program and we hunters have solved our own. You didn't solve it, you transferred the problem to someone else. And that's why my thinking and debate, so this hunting law, the hunting ground is everything, the hunting economic surface is the place where you can shoot, let's simplify it. And this space is a hunting ground where the same hunting society is responsible. Now, which way does the law write it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32681	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for his reply. I hope the promoter has heard this idea of the intelligence of animals that is truly founded, sometimes surprised us that they are more intelligent than we are people, but we're moving on well. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32682	Thank you very much, dear fellow Batinić. Now you've just claimed that you should give recognition to all hunters, so without exception, who provide great love and care for nature. Well, since that statement of yours surprised me, I'd like to ask you what good and love did Nadan Vidosevic, for example, when he went to the expense of Croatian taxpayers to kill elephants, lions, rhinos, buffalos, leopards, goats, giants and polar bears? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32683	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. And the answer, dear fellow Batinic, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32684	Thank you. I didn't mention or name someone in my debate and what you're talking about, namely, I believe that what you're saying is not at all the subject of this law, first and foremost, it means commercial hunting, it's about hunting reservations, whether they're fenced or not, that's the second thing, it's about a completely different continent, and probably then, there's a country where it goes, if I don't know which African state, etc., has it regulated. So that's not the point. And personally, if someone's going for the shot, yes, there are hunters with us who are willing to pay the trophy. And let's not talk about it, it's wrong. That's exactly when I was talking about one thing, we also need to change the paradigm of thinking about hunting, about hunters. Before, it is primarily hunters who grow game, who rule with savages, who regulate numbers, unfortunately not this government, not this Croatia, but several centuries ago, that man interfered in the natural cycle. And I stand for co-existence. And it means including nature guards, biologists maximum because everyone has, everyone can make a very good contribution. We just have to live here where we live. I stand for co-existence. And I'm saying, my debate went to the bottom of it. And now I also believe in us that there is especially about Slavonic deer, that there are people who are willing to pay a few tens of thousands of euros even though I haven't been hunting for many years, but I believe that they even come from abroad. Well, some of our hunters are going to other continents around the world, and they're willing to pay. It's another category of money than we have here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32685	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milorad Batinic, for this answer. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, dear colleague Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32686	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, fellow MPs. I'd like to congratulate all women on Women's Day. Today, I will discuss my debate with two views. One is a member of the Croatian Hunting Union. So a hunter, and on the other hand as a farmer who suffers from game damage from hunting. The importance of hunting for the Republic of Croatia is significant, meaning that from the point of view of preserving the biological and ecological balances of the natural habitats of wildlife, wild flora and fauna, and on the side of the development of tourism, especially continental tourism that has just begun its development. I think this amendment to the law is basically cosmetic. So it's a ban on hunting or harassing hairy game while it's hilly or running a tiny game and feathered game while running a young game or sitting on an egg. So, apart from harmonising with EU directives, this change has no significant involvement in hunting or hunting development or in hunting problems. And as far as Croatia is concerned, European directives are always respected, and often our experts, under quotes, interpret the directive more stringently than they are interpreted in the EU. And then we far stricter laws here suffer here than we should. Except for these damages that they want to prevent from harassing savages while they have cubs or sitting on their eggs we have one big problem in expansion, it's a nail. The Chagall is one predator who, just like these handcuffs you mentioned, drives into the courtyards, causing damage to the snorkeling savages, causing damage to cattle as well as to the herds as it is to the pigs as well. And while calf cows, he waits for that moment and destroys and damages agricultural producers, but also savages. We have problems in this law that should undergo major changes, and which is always avoided because we know that the lobby on the part of hunters is far stronger and more influential on the making of laws, on the making of laws and on the making of laws in relation to the lobby of agricultural producers and those dealing with production and creating new added value. As far as damage is concerned, the authorisation officer is responsible for the damage caused by the game, provided that the damage has taken all measures to prevent the damage caused by the game. This is one thing that stands in the law that is not fully defined. Because the prevention measures that the authorising officer is obliged to implement are to reduce the number of game animals, provide enough food and water, which is often not done because it is a particular material cost for associations or for private authorities, to store crops and plantations and to banishing game from endangered land. I ask you when a herd of pigs enters 10 ha of corn in which way it is possible to drive them out. Those who know it and who have tried it or who suffer the damage that this corn has known that it is very, very difficult to do. And if they go, they go back and do a lot of damage. The hunting authority is obliged to obtain funds for protection, meaning mechanical and chemical. There's also one problem. As a first timely distribution, insufficient information from agricultural producers when they need to and where to take over the Republics or other means of protection. But there is also a problem when it is divided. So the hunting authority needs to secure a repellent, but its lining, stakes, sponges, cups that go to that must be placed every five meters is obliged to make a farmer. And now that you have a 10 ha plot, its scope is about 1,500 long meters to you, that's 300 stakes that have to be provided by a farmer who's got too much to do, and he's got to deal with these kinds of things. In the case of an electric shepherd and electrical protection, the problem is even greater. So, once again, the bounty hunter is obliged to secure an electric shepherd, i.e. A machine, a battery and a wire. However, again we get to the poles but we also come to maintenance and installation. So you need to set three rows of wire or two, and you need to cut all the vegetation that's around the electric shepherd, because the moment the grass touches the shepherd, it won't work afterwards. And I'm asking you what the job is now for this agricultural producer who has work to do over his head to set it all up, to regularly cut it, to maintain it. Because in case he didn't do it insurance wouldn't pay him the expense, i.e. the damage to that crop. Wouldn't it make sense for hunting societies to do that? We're coming up with another problem, and that's proof of land ownership. When you suffer damage, you must prove that you own the land. There's often no such thing as ownership. And then there's the problem that the farmer may not actually own the land, but he owns the crops, and there's another strain between hunting societies, which is what he is. And you know who brings out the thick end in the end? He's pulling that unfortunate peasant again. Traffic damage. A savage sometimes hits a car or you hit it and it goes away. There's no credible lead left or anyone who works sees it doesn't see it. I'm asking you if you'd find yourself in that situation if your pet of, say, 150000 kunas had an average impact, and it'd do you any harm to think about this law afterwards, and not to charge that kind of damage. I'm not talking here just because I think it's a hunting problem and they're guilty of this situation. No, they're not. They just stick to the law that's been made like this, unspoken, has a big pile of holes and unfortunately goes to harm those who fight for their survival, and these are agricultural producers, and we know that no one goes hunting who doesn't have at least five thousand kunas for a rifle, for clothes, to go hunting and to have time to hunt. I think we need to decide in the Republic of Croatia what matters to us. Whether we care about agricultural production or we don't care about agricultural production, we care about hunting, game, then the state as the owner of the game and suffer damage to everything that comes into it. After all this comes hunting societies into trouble, especially hunting societies on common hunting grounds, i.e. Hunting associations that don't deal with commercial hunting, they're really in love with hunting because they're not so rich they can be in big hunting grounds and then team up in small hunting grounds and because of their love for nature they go there. We come to the fact that today more insurance companies do not want to provide hunting grounds for such smaller hunting associations because the damages are large, hunting associations cannot pay such large insurance premiums and then we come to an increase in the premium or that there is one part that must be given by hunting societies, and part of it smells like an insurance house. And the third problem then tries to influence warlocks who witch the damage to reduce the damage as little as possible. Here's an example of me, there's been damage from the savages where it's never happened, and when the expert came, he said why you didn't set up the repellents. I said what would set them up when the damage never happened. And there I suffered considerable damage that no one ever calmed me down because of the fact that repellents were not laid down under the law. Here they enter long litigation associations, farmers enter the situation so that they can't pay off the damages they have done, and then slowly there's a confiscation of the hunting grounds because they can't meet the new obligations they owe under the law. And the law says they're obliged to settle the damage. Farmers do not comply with the regulations in the forest, often play and do no harm, and everyone here is in some kind of trouble. In some years, we have an excessive number of savages, especially wild pigs, because I know that after the Homeland War and the Homeland War, there has been a significant crossover of wild boars and domestic pigs, that a feral pig is often washed twice a year, that it does not have two to three feds a year, but there are ten pieces a year, perhaps more in certain cases. Unfortunately, in those years, the ministry does not respond in due time to the problem of the excessive population and does not issue in an emergency procedure a sufficient number of stamps to reduce such a population, and then damage is suffered by all farmers and hunting associations and hunting societies. We were talking about the 300m belt, it's that there's a problem with these 300m that really some things can't be fired in that 300m band, which should certainly make an exception to the law to allow it, but we have another problem that says like this, dogs and cats can't be released 300m from the dwellings, the poacher can remove them. So who lives in the country and has a cat, and I'm asking you how to control a cat who lives free in the yard if she's gone 300, 500, or a mile from the yard of a house or a dog you let run out the same way. So that's the same story that's supposed to be run in law because often hunters, either out of some peril or out of a whim, kill a dog that really shouldn't be killed. Hunting societies are placed in a dominant position over agricultural producers, as I said hunters have a far-reaching influence on law-making, and I think the ministry that is responsible for overseeing and implementing the Hunting Act and as a proposing of this law would mean the Ministry of Agriculture i.e. The Government of the Republic of Croatia must deal more with this Hunting Act, which for many years needs more changes and where all the problems that have arisen over the past ten years in hunting and in agriculture for hunting. As said, game is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia, has its special protection. The problem of cities and municipalities was mentioned here, one of the new problems is that now that a car hits a savage, municipalities or cities are in charge of removing it. Units of local self-government that savage off the road. As someone said at common hunting grounds, concessions are charged by the county, by state states, and units of local self-government again have that cost that is so great to them since their funds are getting smaller and smaller every day. So I appeal once again to the ministry, to the secretary of state, I hope that he listened very carefully to what I was saying, to try to think about the law to make him fairer, and to keep both hunters and hunting associations happy, as well as those big hunting tenants who have commercial hunting grounds whose game often feeds in the field of common hunting sites, and then again he gets to return after that food to large hunting sites, and the damage to small hunting associations and farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32687	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Lenart for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, distinguished colleague Tomislav Panenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32688	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the exhibition here is also on behalf of the club MOST and on behalf of all colleagues here in the Parliament, all the employees of the Parliament, all the women in Croatia congratulate Women's Day. As we consider this law only when we look at the component of the current law in which we find two decisions of the Constitutional Court, they say that the issue of the Hunting Law is certainly a problem that will arise and when we have a proposal for a full amendment of the law on hunting, this is only one partial harmonisation but enough to say that only a partial word, which, in fact, a single sentence practically relating to the ban on hunting birds that migrate through Croatia has welcomed us to have a 2015 pilot, that from the beginning of 2016 we have an infringement of EU law, is just saying that we simply don't want to change that because that would have been long ago on the agenda here. If we come back, please, why doesn't he want to get rid of it, maybe when we remember all together and we watched animated movies, that movie about Duck Darko, and Hamky or Porky Pig and Daphne Duck. You remember then Disney actually made one of those ridiculous variations of bird hunting where we all laughed so sweetly with those scenes. And in some ways, we had this bird hunt as one social event that wasn't something terrible, but we see when we get to these violations of European Union law and the protection of birds that we can actually say that through Disney's cartoons, it went to lobbying on people's minds to be acceptable. But it's not acceptable for us at the Independent List Most. And that is why we support this amendment and this proposal to amend and supplement the law. And when we look at only Disney influences from small legs, we can see and now we have an animated film called Beauty and the Beast where again they will say that homosexuality is in small children, the beginning of perhaps a change that should be accepted as a society. So you should think about that since we were little legs, it's influenced us as humans and you should think about how to start from our children, from their perception that what surrounds us from ourselves, and also nature and ultimately these birds that can't be acceptable. Of course, behind all this is interest, one is sports hunting, societies, which are involved, whose hobby is social, their event usually happens on Sunday mornings when they go hunting, care about these hunting grounds, and can really praise the many hunting associations that I have met and worry about and fight for it and, of course, every time they suffer when there's a possibility that the concession they have might go to other people's hands. And that is why the bill itself is complete when it is in the parliamentary debate, there will probably be a lot of comments about it, debate and, of course, probably here in the Parliament. But those who represent themselves under hunters, hunting associations and similars who are actually poachers who help smuggle animals from the Republic of Croatia about them today we speak also in the context of this hunting ban. Because honestly, in Croatia, I really didn't run into any place that some type of bird was offered on some menu, I don't know, kind of like the owners that it's like speciality, but in some other countries it is. We often mention Italy, mention Italian hunters who come to us, not only to us but also to the entire Balkans. But we're always going to take the blame to someone else, but they wouldn't happen here if there weren't some amongst us that help, help shoot a number of birds, get them to smuggle into a restaurant, and I'll only show you through math if that cheapest black market bird has a value of about 5 euros, if the numbers vary, that there are so many illegal shot birds between 50 thousand and 500 thousand, which is one huge number to me, then we can only see through that mathematics what that amount is, which is money and that there's not hunting passion, but it's business. If on the other hand you multiply those figures by the price of a portion, one on a regular basis, where that bird is served in Italy, which is worth 50 to and sometimes hundreds of euros, then we're talking about business, we're talking about one of the mafia parts that is trying to introduce themselves under hunters. The conference itself, here I am... for this debate when I saw that the conference in Cyprus was where these problems were discussed and where the study of 40 European countries showed that 6 were critical. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is also critical of these. Both Croatia and Bosnia and Serbia. And then we say okay, maybe we'll change our legislation and probably will, and now by this change, we can say that we've settled it. But whether we've solved those who will implement it, whether they'll all be aware that it's finally forbidden, or whether all those birds that someone in northern Europe is going to be able to observe their development, the numbers of the population, their movement, the ring and whether that bird that flies across our territory means ending up still in some pot and that the only rest will be that metal ring that they'll hide, then we see the difference in cultural perception and the way they treat nature. When, following in Italy, we see that they had a police action called Balkan birds. I think that only tells you what problem is highlighted in Italy, which is ultimately the destination of all these birds, then we should ask not only here in Croatia but also in other countries. In fact, how do we allow someone somewhere else to consider it as a crime and in the end why we did not launch such an extensive action and try to prevent someone from going by the name of Croatia, the name of Croatian hunters abroad, from being part of such jobs? But these jobs aren't random, they're organized and they're well organized, so organized that you can see someone a little deeper on the Internet that there are travel agencies that offer the whole arrangement, and even have it listed that, so they allow, they will enable hunting with shooting and export. What does export mean? That's where you get the information when you personally ask, then that information will mean that those birds you catch will smuggle you out of our country and deliver you to where you come from. And that's part of the arrangement. Therefore, it would have to be done that the issue of the arrangement should be clear to all that it must not include even a hint of the possibility of anyone coming, that on this road migration because here we are primarily talking, means the feathered game that migrates, which is the most endangered but of course the others, that the bird that flies from Africa, which thousands of miles across here will eventually be stopped. Because here's some information that's just on that so-called. The Adriatic migration route works at that time about 200 thousand hunters and two million birds are shot. If the half is intended for delicacy in a restaurant, then you can see what these values are and why any changes to the Hunting Law will always find an obstacle and there will always be a problem with what is brought positive for us in this case, which brings us at EU level, and we have a problem implementing. And there will always be lobbys that will try to stop it, but we have to think that we can't let one day run out of birds or that birds don't fly across our territories. And we see that what is the state of our country, and indeed the bird is probably wondering why it is flying across Croatia. And we, as people, should ask ourselves, why did almost none of them want to stay in Croatia? So we're going back to the question of who we are, what decisions we make, and what we leave behind generations. So here's the secretary of state you have the full support of the Most Independent Lists in implementing this amendment to the Hunting Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32689	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Comrade Miro Bulj, not present. The following has appeared for an individual discussion by distinguished counterpart Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32690	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The adoption of this law is necessary in order to comply with EU rights and rules on the conservation of wild birds as well as bearded and hairy gamers. Furthermore, this law has the importance of protecting and preserving and prescribes responsibility for game damage. These changes and additions are minor, symbolic but important and significant. However, since we are preparing a new law allow me to do so, I would like to point out a number of currentities in this regard that should be implemented as soon as possible in the new law, although a lot has been said today. Some things are good and do it again. So, for example, I'm going to say something about renting land. Therefore, in the case of the lease itself, it is necessary to make a very clear distinction with the hunting of the hunting association's rent from societies and societies, from commercial hunting sites and tourism. It should avoid the practice of easy termination of the lease agreement of state and part of common hunting grounds. In fact, it is such a practice that hunting tenants are very often especially when I think of commercial hunting grounds very often devastate the hunting grounds for two, three years and then, without any consequences, return it to the owner of the state. That's a lot of examples. And on the other hand, we have hunting societies that grow and take care of savages, and for them a hunting lease should be minimal or in some segments and none. In fact, the ecological and other conditions from day to day are becoming more complex and more unfavourable for game. So, for example, the state of the rabbit or the run of the scrutiny is quite reduced especially in the flat-rate parts of northern Croatia and they are prior to extinction. The state should be primarily in the interest of the conservation of game and other animal species, and only a surplus could go into the firearms programme. Of course, with a certain kind of large game where I mean, of course, the black game, the wild boar situation is a very different situation where it should think about the possible elimination of poaching especially because of the uncontrolled increase in the number of individuals. We know we have major problems on the island of Cres, but my colleague spoke shortly before me of the damage that black game, or wild boars, are doing to the crops themselves and the damages. Care of game, and thus other species in nature primarily, primarily led by hunters and for this activity they should be rewarded by reducing and abolishing the hunting of the rent. Further, damage. The damage paid by the tenants every day is increasing and exceeding millions. Many hunting tenants are therefore ahead of bankruptcy and due to the cost of road accidents, so the attack of a car on a game or the encounter of a game on a vehicle, since it is a court practice, and we have already heard about it today, just as often, or most often, judgments are made at the expense of hunting for tenants, although the law says that the road is not a hunting ground. However, everything that happens in a vehicle and game situation is often transferred to the payload of the tenant or insurance company if the hunting ground is potentially secured. However, today’s premiums are enormous and exceed the amount of cash leases, so many hunting tenants cannot afford such insurance. I agree with my predecessors that you should consider a solid increase in compulsory insurance by 30, 20, 30 kuna, which would include damages from the attacks of savages and other animals on the road. This would deprive the need for numerous court disputes, and both drivers and hunters of hunting grounds would be more satisfied. However, it is very important and it would be good to find a way to subsidise the hunting grounds and for the damage to crops and domestic animals caused by game, of course where I think of some other gamer not only of wild pigs, we have heard the bears as well. Furthermore, there is one problem that my predecessors said the same thing, which is the elimination of predators. The law on hunting should identify more clearly the problem of reducing the number of predators, especially those of the famous 300 and 200m respectively. In many cases, these areas are filled with predators, and someone spoke about the cunning of animals, intelligence is certain that they are very well equipped and that they are using this precisely 300m area, especially since we know that in the areas of northwestern Croatian foxes do not have a natural enemy. A particular problem, I've already talked about it on the board, is the suspension of the payment of stimulation to hunters for shot predators by the restoring ministry, resulting in an increase in the population of the same and not by recording the singles shot by veterinary organisations. During 2015 and 31.3.2016, the order of 2015 ordered the control of the oral vaccination and the search for rabies of all handcuffs delivered. A fee of 100 kuna and 50 kuna to the veterinary organisation for transport costs and manipulation was paid to the hunter. This was the case until 2016, while 2016 no longer ordered the control of oral vaccination or any award to fox hunters. The order on animal protection measures against infectious diseases for 2017 again introduces a small part of the control of fox monitoring, but it is in a much, much reduced form. Therefore, foxes in very large numbers are left behind in the hunting grounds, and... monitoring of rabies is significantly reduced. Such a measure, so-called. The rewarding of fox hunters should be reintroduced because foxes fired in the hunting grounds represent a potential source of infection. And about guarding the hunting grounds. The new law should more clearly address the issue of the conservation of hunting grounds, i.e. more precisely determine the rights and responsibilities and powers of hunters and mandatory cooperation of police and hunters. It is also necessary, on the basis of the facts set, to shorten and simplify court proceedings which are drawn up and go into obsolescence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32691	I thank my esteemed colleague Križanić for this debate. We have two replicas, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32692	Dear colleague, you mentioned the funds, you mentioned the cash lease, and here we have two things, and there's room in the funds. I'll just mention a few examples that happened a few years ago. So up until a few years ago, we members of the hunting society in the whole of Croatia, the oral vaccination of the foxes you mentioned were carried out by hunting societies each in their hunting grounds in a way that organized actions and set baits. After that, I don't know why, a few years ago, this was suspended and huge funds are being paid for the inoculation of foxes carried out through the plane, and it seems to me that even a year ago a Czech company was doing it, so here are some credentials if I'm wrong the representatives of the ministry and that the state paid huge funds to the Czech company to throw something out of the plane that they had spent years before hunting society throughout Croatia in oral fox vaccination actions,... So that's one amount of funding. Another amount of funds that are not small, which are issued we have two types of hunting leases, we have county hunting sites, state hunting grounds. So the income of hunting companies for county hunting grounds goes to the county, this goes to the state budget, right. So if it were to go on purpose if we thought that game was of particular interest, if hunting societies were bound... hunting economic grounds if we found a model of a dedicated return of those funds back there in those who practically carried it out on the ground, I think there might be a compromise there. And in that section that I suggested about the insurance policy in the registration of personal cars, I think they would cover a very large part of the problem of the funds needed to compensate for the damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32693	I would like to thank my colleague Klaric for his replication and response to his esteemed colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32694	I thank my colleagues for the replica. When I talk about oral vaccination, yes, it used to be carried out by a hunting society, it was later conducted by an airplane, and it ended probably a year or two ago, and that's why during the '15s and early '16s the orders and prescribed the control of oral vaccinations by the Croatian Veterinary Institute and at that point we also had monitoring, rabies in the Republic of Croatia. We know that we have a large, long and wide border with BIH and Serbia where relatively weak control is being carried out, monitoring is of vital interest and we continue to monitor anger especially over predators, especially over shot handcuffs, and it is not in the interest of anyone to leave these handcuffs in the hunting grounds. So that's why I've appealed to the Resort Ministry to find a way to reward the hunter with that symbolic sum he's had so far, that these foxes aren't left behind in the hunting grounds. When you talked about funds, the county has certain funds from hunting so it can certainly include that, that it also in some way stimulates hunters to bring foxes into veterinary organisations that would then send them to the Institute for Monitoring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32695	I thank the distinguished colleague Križanic for his reply, Honored counterpart Strick, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32696	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Križanić, you stated in your debate that the primary objective of all hunting associations is to protect habitats and savages. There I absolutely agree with you, and certainly no kind of game has died out because of the action of hunters. It was for the work of the poachers. And in what way are the institutions now treating hunting associations? We have an example from Varazdin County. Last year, 14 hunting societies or associations could not have been as many as 30 of them, as much as there are hunting grounds in the Varazdin County, could not extend their hunting grounds. The reasons were literally banal. One association was not allowed to extend, an extension of the hunting lease because a hunting inspector reported them for something. It all ends up in a criminal court, the verdict is liberating, so it's not their fault, but because the hunting inspector filed that report, that was the reason he didn't extend their hunting warrant, which I think is literally insane. Therefore, colleagues of Križanić here, only if you can further explain whether you think it would be desirable for all these hunting associations to be able to come easier to hunt or in case of an extension to extend hunting because I believe that the state and all of us are in the interest of the habitats of savages, means that nature is cared for and I believe that hunters are the most called precisely to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32697	I thank my esteemed colleague, Angelka Stricak, for the replica and response of the esteemed colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32698	Thank you, fellow Striker. I was talking about it, in my presentation to hunters and hunting associations, I need to ensure, not to agree with you, but it is normal and logical to extend the hunters at the lowest possible price or almost free of charge to such hunting associations that care about both breeding and all other hunting segments to provide them at the lowest possible price and without great procedures to extend the hunting costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32699	I thank my esteemed colleague Križanić for his reply. On behalf of the applicant for the debate, the esteemed State Secretary, Tugomir Majdak, applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32700	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, here are the honourable parliamentary deputies and MPs. I thank you on behalf of the promoter of the Ministry of Agriculture for all parliamentary representatives and representatives for the constructive debate, and for all the positive opinions on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hunting Act, as well as the quality proposals and bases relating to the adoption of a comprehensive Hunting Act, which is foreseen for the second quarter of 2017. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hunting Law reminds and recaptures again, incorporates the provisions of the two EU directives that I have pointed out in the introduction but also defines the legal provisions that are in line with the Constitutional Court's decisions. The new, whole Hunting Act, I refer in advance because the large size of the comments in the debate was directed precisely towards a more quality and efficient law. I remind you that the current law was passed in 2005 and the only major changes were in 2009. In particular, it will define removing administrative barriers and bureaucratic burdens to improve the business climate of investments and normably supplement provisions governing certain parts of hunting and game management. It is also envisaged to arrange a part related to private ownership or the establishment of private hunting grounds. It will also further define the status of experts for the implementation of hunting grounds, game breeding programmes and game protection programmes as well as one of the measures to promote employment. The law will also significantly harmonise the provisions relating to the exercise of supervision, the introduction of an infringement order in order to reduce the burden on courts. The damages of game, insurance policy, game protection programmes, better co-existence in habitats, better quality and safer agricultural production, topics that were current in the debate today, and surely the Ministry of Agriculture will take into account all your suggestions, and in coordination with other institutions and ministries, but respecting the applicable legal regulations and legislation that determines this area. We will prepare a proposal for a new law, as I have already pointed out for the second quarter. Finally, I thank you once again for your support for the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hunting Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32701	I would like to thank Secretary of State Mr. Tugomir Majdak for this debate for his final statement. This concludes the debate. I thank all those who participated in this debate. I would also like to thank the representatives of the motionary state secretary, Mr Majdak, and the head of the ministry of agriculture, Mr Tomislav Žuglic. We'll vote on this item on the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32702	Thank you. We continue with the vote on the next points. The first item is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Hunting Act, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 87. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Hunting Act and 2 is hereby adopted. All objections and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes are 120 for, 2 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32703	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) No This appropriation is intended to cover: No. 95. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You got the materials in the boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the parent committees and the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You also received reports at the session. I would like to ask the Proposer of the Honorable Minister of Health, Mr. Professor. Milan Kujundzic to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32704	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. The materials you've got so I believe you've already been prepared in a certain way, and I'll just short-circuit you to take a lot of time to tell you what the essential elements of this bill are. This is, in fact, the provision of Regulation 609/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on food for infants and young children, food for special medical needs and the replacement for whole-day diet for reducing diet. Identification of the Ministry of Health as the competent authority for the implementation of EU law and regulation No. 609/2013 and Sanitary inspections as a competent inspection body, regulation of the obligations and responsibilities of food-related entities will be prescribed for the notification procedure in the food register for specific groups. Of course, regulation and misdemeanor provisions in case they are not available, and the key elements of the legislative proposal in relation to the applicable legislation could actually come under three points. The first is individual categories of food for special needs according to applicable legislation, gluten-free food, diabetic food and individual replacement meals intended for weight reduction are no longer considered as food for special needs but become common food. Another important point to highlight may and most important is the change of composition requirements. And the third important point is the notification procedure in the food register for specific nutritional needs under the applicable legislation is abolished for the transitional food for infants, except for hydrolysate-based food and processed cereal-based foods for infants and young children and other children's food. And of course what is always necessary to emphasize, even in this case, this law does not restrict anything. In fact, it stimulates breast milk, i.e. breast-feeding. Here's so much for the opening word. We're standing here and we're starting to talk to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32705	I thank the Honorable Minister of Health, Mr. Professor. Milan Kujundzic at this debate. Do the committee's reporters want to take the floor maybe? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Zeljka Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32706	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Ministers and Assistants, MPs and MPs. As you have heard on the table is the proposal for a law implementing Regulation 609/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on food for infants and young children, food for special medical needs and diet replacement for reduction diet, as well as its amendments from 25 September 2015 through the Commission’s declaration regulations, and it is about initial and transitional food and food for special needs. As the minister himself said, this is only about two changes. I will remind you that all of these forms of food that I have mentioned here, so baby food, for young children, food for special medical needs, as well as those concerning reduction diets are all regulated by the law of the Republic of Croatia. And all these laws are also sublegal acts in national legislation transposing EU acts themselves. As regards Regulation 609 EU/2013 itself, which I subsequently mentioned, it shall apply fully from 20 July 2016. Although all the delegated acts to which certain requirements are being defined have not yet been adopted and planned to be adopted by 2021. These acts also give rise to the obligations of food subjects. How they must amend certain composition and labelling of food placed on the market, as also reported by the health minister in his opening statement. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What is very important in this Regulation is its purpose to protect the health of infants and children themselves, i.e. in terms of labelling, representation and advertising, and promotional and other practices relating to infants. This would also create a legal framework on which all these questions concerning infant food could be resolved. These are substitutes for breast milk, but also initial food for infants in diet. As far as advertising of baby food itself is concerned, parents have even decided to buy certain foods from a specific producer compared to all the marketing offered by that particular producer. And that is why this is why it seeks to protect the consumer himself, and in this case it is a child in order to get as high quality food and as high quality food as possible, and of course this food does not have to apply only to industrial food because you know very well that breastfeeding is very important until the sixth month of the child's life. The minister also stressed that the implementation of this regulation is carried out by the Ministry itself and, of course, as I mentioned in the beginning the very important establishment and implementation of the system of notification of certain categories of food, then the information materials, educational materials concerning infant nutrition, then the rules of advertising, presentation of initial food for infants, then the way in which the information and educational materials are donated, then the institutions of professional or association are encouraged to produce certain guides, and also those guides themselves are assessed. In addition to the competent authority itself, a control system has been established, but commissions for specific food groups serving as support to the ministry have also been designated. Of course, they also give an opinion on the food that is included in the register, give opinions if they suspect that certain food is disrupting human health or opinion in accordance with expert guidelines that are very important to us in the same way as those vulnerable groups of our citizens. I will only finally mention once again that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this bill to implement the EU regulation for this most vulnerable category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32707	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Josic, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Sinisha Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32708	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, a big welcome to the Minister of Health, Professor Kujundzic and his colleagues. Here we have today an EU regulation that you all know that, unlike the directive, translation into Croatian legislation is already fully accepted as a legislative document that is transmitted directly to the Official Journal or to the National Journal of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, when we talk about this part, we cannot enter into the metrics of the directive itself, it is positive about the quality and the way children's food and food matters are regulated, special food as it is regulated, and it is a matter of certain liberalisation in relation to the practice so far. We have a delay in application for 2019 or 2021, and in this way we have time to adjust, but as far as I know, manufacturers of such food in the Republic of Croatia have very little. It will remain under the supervision of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, Customs and all those who regulate the introduction of food products into the Republic of Croatia, the way in which they regulate what quality, what quantities and how they are used. And I would just like to point out once again that it is very important that no such regulation reduces the importance of breast-feeding. Breast-feeding is all we know that we had about a decade and a half ago it was fashionable for women not to breast-feed for aesthetic and other fashionable reasons, but we managed to return breast-feeding through public health actions as a norm in the Republic of Croatia and any substitute foods necessary in exceptional cases. It cannot become a norm of behavior or that breastfeeding is a purely normal and natural thing and should be encouraged as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32709	I thank my esteemed colleague Sinishi Vargi for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ines Strenja-Linić, unfortunately on the board, is not present. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32710	I thank you for your contribution to the debate. And I think that on this law or harmonisation with eu regulations, we should not have some big dilemmas in Croatia, except one principle attitude, which is really to protect the most standards when it comes to the diet of Croatian children, and I think that we should all insist together. So I believe in the debate that will follow and later in the implementation that we will all be on the same side as they will say to keep the most standards and keep that from the first day of their life Croatian children except mother's milk when they receive other food have the best food to reduce the risk of their health to a minimum when the word is possible... which are delivered with food. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32711	Thank you, Professor. Milan Kujundzic, the Honorable Minister of Health. This concludes the debate. I thank everyone who participated in the debate. I would like to thank the representatives of the proposer, the Minister of Health, Prof. Milan Kujundzic, Mrs. Dubravka Jadro, advisers to Minister and Mrs. Ruzica Vazdar, head of the food department. We will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met. Since the Committee is under way, or a session of the Committee on Health and Social Policy cannot be moved to the next item of the agenda so that we can continue the session at 3:00 a.m. when I decide to take a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32712	The next item is the proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) No. This appropriation is intended to cover: Number 95. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 is hereby adopted. European Parliament and Council of 12 June 2013 on food for infants and young children, food for special medical needs and replacement for whole-day diet for reducing diet, 2. All objections and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously with 122 votes, we have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32713	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the plenary session. It is on the agenda - Proposal for a law on the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 102. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to you in boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Reports I hope are now under way. As far as the board is concerned, would you like to ask the proposer's representative to take the floor and give an additional explanation? Honorable Minister Professor Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. One more time, I welcome you. So today, we have before us the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products which, in fact, in a certain way as we all know the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately, in a certain way and the possibility of sanctions that we can, because of the slow adjustment, possibly have. I believe that we will not have sanctions more than we have done in the term of this government, i.e. these four months have really made the maximum effort to do so in the shortest time because we put it in the priorities where we made the law as soon as possible, and what took our time was simply a procedure to pass all bodies with the utmost respect that they would be very interested and in no sense did we want to shorten and skip any step. Therefore, the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products of the National No. 125/2008, 55/2009. and correction of 119/2009. 13 in accordance with the World Health Organisation framework conventions on tobacco control and then applicable EU rules. Directive 2137 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2001 on harmonised laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the production, advertising and sale of tobacco products, and Directive 2003/33 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 May 2003 on the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products. Directive 2014/40 of the EU on the harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the production of tobacco and related products is repealing the Directive of 20 May 2016 with effect from 20 May 2016. The new tasks that we have included in our bill are: it is forbidden to stress more importantly, it is prohibited to place on the market tobacco products with a characteristic flavour of cigarettes and tobacco for self-tampering, which are considered attractive to young people and women, and also to prohibit Member States from placing on the market tobacco products containing flavouring in any of their components such as filters, paper, packaging, capsules or any technical features that allow the change of smell or taste of the tobacco product concerned or the strength of their smoke. Filters, papers and capsules must not contain tobacco or nicotine. The ban on the aroma of tobacco products has been valid since 20 May 2020. For certain additives contained in cigarettes and in a self-contained tobacco included in the priority list, stricter reporting obligations shall also apply. The Commission shall also adopt implementing acts laying down and then update such a priority list. There will be large combined health warnings on cigarette boxes that will remind consumers of the dangers of smoking. Therefore, a uniform way of putting and warning about the harmfulness of cigarettes and these warnings, images and text warnings, information on smoking discontinuation should cover 65% of the surface of the pack of cigarettes. Member States may exempt tobacco products for smoking other than cigarettes, smokes for self-tampering and water pipe tobacco from the obligations mentioned above. The presentation of data on tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide levels on unit packes of cigarettes is shown to be misleading because it leads consumers to the conclusion that certain cigarettes are less harmful than others. The tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide label on packes of cigarettes and tobacco for tuning will be replaced by an information message containing more than 70 substances that cause cancer. Packs of less than 20 cigarettes that are cheaper and accessible to children are prohibited for all tobacco products are provided for mandatory reporting of ingredients in a standardised electrical form, and we have accepted from the country a common EU central notification system by prescribing a report that is conducted by the European Commission and Member States ensure that those information, other than those deemed to be commercially secret, are publicly available on the website. The list of all ingredients used in the production shall also be required from manufacturers and importers of the smoking plant products and shall ensure that they are made available publicly on the health ministry's website. And a few other very important proposals in the law. A ban on smoking and consumption of all types of e-cigarettes is proposed in a non-smoking area. All the advertising and sponsorship bans of tobacco products we've had so far, we suggest they also refer to e-cigarette. And finally, so far, we have been banned from exhibiting all tobacco products, and we suggest that the same applies to new products and e-cigarettes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32715	I thank the respected health minister, Professor Milan Kujundzic. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32716	Minister, not only do you prohibit tobacco products, you forbid a tobacco product ban in the Law on tobacco products and something that is not a tobacco product at all. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. ‘Smoking of tobacco and related products, plant products and the use of electronic cigarettes with or without nicotinic charge shall be prohibited’. So no nicotinic charge. What comes out of an electronic cigarette without a nicotinic charge? There's water steam and aroma coming out. I'm waiting for you to ban the teapots because there's money going out there, too, and there's some herbal flavor coming out, a tea that's being put in there, then you'd be consistent. What's an electronic cigarette for without a nicotinic charge? So it's to get smokers out of smoking. So now, instead of stimulating those people who have already developed addiction to tobacco and smoking, to stimulate them to get out of it, you're dimming them, you forbid them to use a completely harmless, water-free steam without a nicotinic charge. Therefore, this law of yours is illogical, rather rigorous. He is according to EU directives, so whenever any clerk there in Burxelles writes something, so when we stop implementing it here completely uncritically because whoever uses little logic is thinking a little bit about why he would not prescribe such a directive here. So stupid, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32717	I thank my esteemed colleague, Nenad Stazic, on the replica. Mr. Kujundzic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32718	Mr. Stazic, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to use my medical knowledge a little bit. I'm afraid you have certain oversights, so I'm stimulating you, read more about carcinogenic substances, and if you want, I can give you a list of literature, and you'll see that this isn't about tea. E-cigarettes aren't tea, and they're not milk. So, don't send a message to the Croatian public, especially children, because when you read more about it, then you will see that there are many substances that are already known today, and I'm afraid we will know, especially tomorrow, when the time has passed immediately what they've been doing. And let's not on unproven substances that are already known in medicine, they're papers written about making tea and milk from what they're not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32719	I thank you for your response to Minister Kujundzic. The next replica of the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, academiatist ŽELJKO Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32720	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers. Of course, we will all agree on these amendments that follow the European directive because this is aimed at reducing smoking, and we are unfortunately a country where every third adult smokes. In that we are very, very bad, we are from 182 countries in 23rd place by the number of cigarettes smoked annually, so we're pretty bad standing. What I would suggest and what could be done between the two readings, and if it fails to do so in a short period because this should be applied as soon as possible in order to avoid EU sanctions, then I believe that by summer we could achieve the consent of all parties or most parties in the Assembly to actually be part of Article 25, which is paragraph 5a, where, as in so far, the laws which are unfortunately under pressure are restored and allowed to be served in catering facilities where food and drink are served as a smoking device if they have an appropriate air treatment device, to throw it out. Namely, if they could have done so by countries like Ireland, such as Italy where it was part of a national culture, so to speak, if Turkey could have done so and banned smoking and it is truly respected then Croatia and I think that we would have done indeed one civilizational step. This way, strangers wonder what kind of land we are that can be smoked in restaurants because many have these devices so they keep them off so they don't waste too much electricity, for example, or they break down and never fix it. We have it on paper, but in real life it doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32721	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Reiner, for the replica. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32722	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. You were talking about these informative messages and images of the organs of the people on cigarettes, one part already in use, one part being introduced, I would now like to hear your opinion as a doctor do you think that would be, why just tobacco because we have a bunch of harmful products? Why, for example, did he not have alcohol bottles of liver decay, for example, in sick people who were suffering from it? Why do we not have chocolates because we know that consumption of excess sugar also affects health, means teeth and other organs, why do we not have such a message on other products? Or now there's a question of some other things, I've always wondered. And now I'm interested in your medical expert opinion because we'll also agree that tobacco is not only evil and it's the impression that only tobacco products and smokers are people of the second order, we know that sodas also have a negative effect on people's health. Do you think it is then the same unequal relationship with certain economic branches in the world and whether we as a country can also have some kind of initiative towards the European Commission or just have to follow their directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32723	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. And I repeat that here we are talking about the bill's proposal to limit the use of tobacco and related products, not alcohol and others. We have a reply to the replica, Your Honor, Mr. Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32724	Dear Mr. Representative, I respect your consideration of the harmfulness possible and others, but to compare what you have said with chocolate and cigarettes, I don't think it would be appropriate, but of course it is possible in the spirit of democracy. This is a directive, we had to apply this and regarding the relationship to the European Union and our bonds or self-respect we ourselves are not inventive of everything that you invent in person or our Croatia I think will be considered in Europe, so suggest it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32725	I thank you for answering Mr. Kujundzic's honourable minister. With this, we have exhausted the replicas for the applicant's opening explanation. Do the committee's reporters want to take the floor maybe? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the first debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, the distinguished Croatian Vice-President Zeljko Reiner appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32726	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Well, at first, let me say, of course, the HDZ Club will support this law. Why did the European Union go into this at all? Because it has been proven that reducing smoking can save lives, as simply as possible, and in many countries, such campaigns as the European Union is now prescribing and we want to make a significant reduction in the number of smokers. In Croatia smokes at this time, as I said before, unfortunately every third adult, in Great Britain smokes only 19% of adults, in Sweden, Sweden achieved its goal in 2000 and the goal was to smoke less than 20% of citizens, at this point in the latest data somewhere around 11% of the adult population smokes. However, while pushing for what I said earlier in the replica, this is a restriction, i.e. a ban on smoking in restaurants, cafes, so Sweden did it in 2005. In 2004, Ireland banned smoking in jobs, restaurants, cafes, and it is punishable with a fine of 3,000 euros or jail time even. It is, of course, drastic, but obviously in a country that has a tradition of pubs, smoking in pubs, etc. Such measures were necessary and successful. Today, in Ireland, smoke is not remembered in any closed area, including restaurants and pubs. Italy, where part of the culture was therefore drinking espresso with smoking, banned all public places in 2005 including cafes, restaurants, discotheques, and it may be the best example of what effect can be achieved because they achieved a reduction in smoking by 8% but also a proven reduction in mortality primarily from cardiovascular diseases. In fact, smoking does not only cause lung cancer that is somehow common to us when we talk about smoking, smoking causes one whole series of other diseases from heart and blood vessels to stroke, to other forms of malignancies, to various lung diseases, obstructive chronic lung disease, etc. Therefore, if these countries are and then I will mention Turkey as a concept in our people is what "Tifles as a Turk". In Turkey over 51% of adults smoked, in 2008, two acts banned smoking including restaurants, even at sports stadiums. They were able to do that for real. What's crucial, of course, in every law is law enforcement, and it will be crucial for this law whether we implement it or not. Unfortunately, we've had two laws so far. One was adopted here in the Assembly in 1999, the other was adopted in 2008. And despite the efforts of the ministers who were then the first I was, the other was someone else. Unfortunately, however, it is difficult to implement this because neither the penalties that are too small in this law nor in many other laws prevent it unless you have enough inspectors, if you have insufficient control and if you do not have sufficient enforcement of the legal provisions, so that even the most perfect law if you do not implement it will not actually achieve your goal. Of course, we must all try to really implement what we bring here. I will repeat the data that is very worrying, which is that more than 30% of adults in Croatia smoke. 34.1% of men, 26.6% of women smoke. Thus, we are in a very high 23rd place of 182 countries and no one can be satisfied with it. And of course, I think we'll all agree to have to fight it. What was said here I think was well said, but we need to make another law on the fight against alcoholism. In Croatia alcoholism is also a serious health problem, but to make such a law would be very useful. He was made of his own, so I don't know what happened to him, but somewhere in the winds of our modern history, he disappeared somewhere. What I think is important to emphasize, and I see that the lobby of the e-cigarette is very strong, we all got various memos about it etc. There's a need to say again what's scientifically justified. So, first of all, the World Health Organization has made it clear that e-cigarettes are not the way smokers are going to quit smoking. Thus, unlike some other approaches used by e-cigarettes in the World Health Organization's view, this is not the way. In addition, it should be made clear that when e-cigarette is burned, one whole set of compounds that have scientific research to bear certain risks, i.e. certain damages to say so. Here's one survey from 2014 showed that let's say the aerosol that comes out of e-cigarette contains a formaldehyde that is extremely toxic for example. That nicotine that's in e-cigarettes of course has all the effects that nicotine has in all the other forms of tobacco. So nicotine has its clear effects, it tightens the blood vessels, let's say, it acts that way on a whole series of processes in the body. Therefore, it is true that e-cigarettes are less harmful than cigarettes but only less harmful, in any case they are not harmful at all. For example, diacetyl that also comes out of e-cigarette causes a disease called bronchilitis obliterans. So it affects the lungs, it comes out of e-cigarettes and benzenes and nitrosamines that also affect the environment, so not only the one who smokes e-cigarettes but also the environment. Finally, it would not have happened if some countries banned completely e-cigarettes, for example, here in Europe Norway, but also some other countries from Singapore, Brazil, etc. In Canada, they're, like, forbidden to sell. You can have them, but don't buy them. I don't know how it comes to that. In any case, almost no country, not nearly, but all countries and all states in the United States forbid smoking e-cigarettes in a closed area, selling to minors because it has been proven to say nicotine, so clean nicotine, let's forget all these other ingredients cause type of two diabetes. Therefore, it is not true that e-cigarettes are harmless. They are simply not, they are less harmful than others, than cigarettes containing 70 extremely harmful compounds but not entirely harmful. Therefore, I would also like to stress that Article 19 of the Law also makes it clear that this law does not apply to electronic cigarettes and re-charging tanks subject to a request for approval in accordance with specific rules governing the placing on the market of a medicinal product or medicinal product. So that preventive noise about e-cigarette actually has some kind of purpose. However, it is not and should not be the subject of the main debate when we talk about this law. The main debate on this law is that it is another step towards reducing the number of smokers in Croatia. I hope and encourage all of us to agree if I do not say until the second reading, and then after the second reading, to reach a consensus to ban smoking in places where food and drink are served on one side. And on the other hand, we also achieve saving people. Namely, the average smoker spends some 220 thousand kunas if he smokes modestly during his smoking internship. It's quite nice money that you could spend on much, much more useful things, much healthier things, for your family etc. How indirect the damage is, therefore, the cost of treating diseases caused by a series of smoking diseases that reduces average life by ten years does not need to be spoken. Therefore, every step taken in the direction of reducing the number of smokers is always positive and that is why I believe that we will all support this law. And I also plead to all of us together to think that cigarettes and expensive things are going up, because thirty years ago, the World Bank did an extensive research that showed that the collection of cigarettes would of course not turn down someone who has been smoking for 20 or 30 years, but it would make it impossible to recruit young people, children who are 12 or 14 years old because they wouldn't have enough money out of your allowance to start smoking, and that's where the new smokers are recruited. Therefore, this too should be considered because it is a measure that some countries have made and have successfully reduced the number of smokers I trust and all of us aim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32727	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Reiner, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first came from a respected colleague, Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32728	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Agent Reiner. You said in your statement that one third of Croatians, or Croatian citizens, smoke and that it is too much. I agree with you and therefore I will support any measure of this government or any future that will be aimed at curbing smoking in Croatia. Smoking is unhealthy, for smokers as well as non-smokers. And enough of that non-smoking bullying by smokers. You also said that the law could be implemented needed enough inspection. When you pass the halls of Parliament, smoke is very often felt, you do not know whether you are in the country's largest democratic institution or in the Balkan pub, and therefore I ask the Parliament's secretariat to make sure that the law is respected in the halls of the Parliament. You also said that smoking in closed rooms is forbidden in America. Yeah, most of it. And we have passed such regulations and these are one of the better regulations in this area and I welcome them as such. You've equally advocated that there should be a potential and higher excise duty on cigarettes for the reasons you've explained. And with that, I agree, it's a good suggestion if it's going to lead to a real reduction in smoking and withdrawal of children from smoking. But I would ask one more thing, our minister who sits here, which is to make an analysis of how many smoking diseases or which are the direct consequences of smoking cost the health system of the Republic of Croatia. So if they cost, then let them find a way to add that cost to the smokers. Is that discrimination? It's not because it's not a disease by nature that you've acquired beyond your will, it's a disease that you've been involved in for your will, because of your decision to smoke and to disrupt your health. There's no reason for all of us to cover such irresponsible individual decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32729	I thank my esteemed colleague for the replica of Josko Klisovic. Here, Mr. Minister, you've also heard a call for the sanitary inspection to... the premises in the Parliament. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32730	Well, thank you very much. I'm glad we agree on all things. I might have singled out the two you mentioned just to point them out. One of them is indeed, and smokers do not harm themselves. Alcoholists and drunks don't hurt themselves either. Family damage, damage to its environment, damage to the working environment, etc. but smokers harm their environment, unfortunately. Therefore, it is true that people who are neither guilty nor obliged to be in that environment must actually suffer health damage that is only slightly less than smokers. And what you said, I think it's particularly important. It is especially important that those who are so to say, should be or should be the ones to be seen first should be those who respect the laws and, of course, will not smoke where they can't smoke, so I absolutely support it, aware of the problem that unfortunately the service or inspection of human beings is important because in real life it happens that when they come to a restaurant they primarily concentrate on the health level of food, kitchen, etc., and less on whether or not they smoke. But I think if these services were to get a little more equipment to make it very useful. And I am deeply convinced that several times and several owners of such institutions and several smokers who break the law would pay the fine to drastically reduce the number of those who break it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32731	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Mr. Željko Reiner. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32732	Dear Representative Reiner, you mentioned examples of other countries and I would refer here to indicators that talk about the very high incidence of tobacco consumption in minors in the Republic of Croatia. There are two measuring studies in which Croatia participates, one is the ESPA survey, a European survey on smoking, alcohol and drug use among students, and the other is HBSC, therefore, on the health behavior of school children aged 11, 13 and 15. The data is devastating. So in children, we're the third to smoke at 15 years of age and the 6th to smoke up to 13 years of age and before. 72% of Croatian students say they can easily or very easily get cigarettes. We already have an existing Article 23, paragraph 1, which speaks of a ban on the sale of tobacco products under 18 years of age. In addition, as regards infringement provisions in Article 40, paragraph 45 provides for fines for those selling to minors of tobacco and now for new related products. I'm curious about who it is that punishes those offenders who sell to minors, so if it's the police, is it the Health Ministry's inspection because I haven't seen in a single report a year how many of those who were punished for selling tobacco products to minors?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32733	I thank my esteemed colleague Cellic on the line. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32734	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Cellic, so I think you mentioned exactly what is the biggest problem because actually smokers are recruiting at that age, at the early age of 12 years, 14 years, then start smoking. Rarely anyone who starts smoking at exactly 35 or 40 years old. He starts smoking when he's young. And there's the problem, and of course we need to concentrate all our strengths not to recruit smokers and unfortunately we're standing bad about it. And you have rightly said what I and I have pointed out to be the law enforcement, that it is very important, not just the law, a good law is important but if we don't implement it then it's as if it doesn't exist. It's really easy for a minor to get a cigarette. It's very simple to get cigarettes, the fines are mostly not charged but also to charge they're very low. And when you look at unfortunately and in this law of violation, this is Article 40, the most punishments are from 70 to 150 thousand kuna. Let's say for putting some products on the market that are banned. And therefore those tobacco producers, tobacco products, will probably make such sums in half a day. They are thus worth even knowingly breaking the law, and they are unfortunately not even able to control it. Therefore, I advocate greater penalties and, of course, the law that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32735	I thank my esteemed colleague Reiner for his reply. Next to the replica came the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32736	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Reiner, you have now mentioned that the implementation of this law will reduce the number of cancer patients. And they will, but you probably know it's going to happen to a minimum. We are, in fact, still in the Croatian legislation embezzling the European directive and the question is, I am glad that the Minister of Health is present here, even though you were formerly, although you are the former health minister that we do ourselves to prevent cancer and how is it possible that Croatia is currently the 6th country in the world at the rate of cancer mortality and that we do not have a national strategy to fight cancer? How is it possible that only in January 1200 people die from this malignant disease, so basically 40 a day? Will 40 people also die today? And here we are discussing at point one, at some points before some of the web pages, so we're discussing zoos. As possible, here you had firsthand insight into the situation that such an explosion of this malignant disease occurred and that to this day essentially nothing concrete was done. I respect this law but clean, and I'll vote for it, but I doubt the growth rate will stop. What measures would it be necessary to take with this law to finally reverse the trend? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32737	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. And an answer from my esteemed colleague Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32738	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well esteemed colleague Bunjac of course you have asked a very complex question because cancer is not one disease, cancer is more cigarette diseases are primarily related to lung cancer and everyone knows it. 90% of patients with lung cancer are smokers. So there is one direct link and this relationship is completely clear and long ago proven half a century ago. And every step I say I don't think this is going to dramatically reduce the number of smokers, no. But it's a step forward. I have suggested a few more steps, I hope that if they come to the agenda, you will support them such as the increase in excise duties, such as disabling smoking in restaurants, cafes and all public places, etc. So better implementation, of course funding that can be better implemented. But why do we have an increase in cancer in us but also in the whole world? There's a lot of reasons. It would take too long to explain. One thing is that today we can diagnose malignancies much better, much sooner we can diagnose them than we used to. Once we didn't have those resources, people would die, we wouldn't even know what they were actually dying of. The second is the fact that, of course, it's not just cigarettes, there are a number of other toxic substances in our environment that civilization has brought, etc. that certainly, the way of life, the way of diet, etc. which contributes to an increase in the incidence of malignant diseases, as well as an extension of life. People used to die at 20 years of infectious diseases, so they didn't even get to experience that age, and most malignant diseases still occur a little later in life, they didn't get to experience it. So there are a number of reasons why it is so that today we have more malignant diseases than it may have been 50 years ago, let alone 100 or 200 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32739	I thank my esteemed colleague Reiner. Here's what happens when the Vice President of the Parliament goes too far. We'll make it up to you on the next answer. The next replica, distinguished counterpart Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32740	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Reiner, it's hard to talk about this subject to me today at least because I see, here and the club representatives are mostly doctors and it's hard for us who aren't doctors to talk about this, but I'm going to try anyway. I deliberately mentioned alcoholism even though it's not a topic. But I've done a combination between tobacco products and alcoholism and I think it's also a big problem in our society in general. But I think the alcohol lobby is a little stronger than tobacco, so that's not how they're treated. Because I think alcohol is still more accessible to minors than cigarettes, because somehow in society, it is considered to be more normal to drink alcohol. The cigarette is still a bit repugnant somewhere, and I don't agree with what you said that people who suffer from alcoholism are mostly self-inflicted and family, you said later. 'Cause you see, if I smoke and bother you, you can be smarter than me and get out of the room and leave me alone. And alcoholics who abuse their family, their family members unfortunately have nowhere to go, must suffer them because friends and people around can also move away and leave. And that's the problem to talk about. I'm also very interested in why there are no signs of liver decay on alcoholic products, etc. What you said about restricting the use of tobacco products in closed spaces also you said well several times through discussion and through replicas. We have legislation that already prohibits the use of cigarettes in all closed areas where food is served, and here we need to send a message that inspection and control should be strengthened, because that part of the law and restrictions is good and only as much control and more punishment should be done, there should be more rigorous. Around the cafe I would also separate those who are either only for smokers or non-smokers so that everyone chooses and from the caterers that the shape of the facility will have, but then every person has a choice to go where they will and won't go. Here and I think we should stress prevention, prevention should be more than a ban first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32741	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. Answer, dear colleague Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32742	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Djumic, we agree absolutely with prevention. I've been dealing with this my whole life, so we'll totally agree on that. As for alcohol, however, it is different than with cigarettes so much that moderate alcohol consumption does not harm, and even a small amount of 5 cigarettes a day damages and these are clear scientific evidence of it. But I agree with you completely that alcoholism is a problem with us, that, as I said myself, it does not only harm the person but it damages the family, damages the work at the end if someone is working in a drunk state, damages traffic, etc. So, I've been very committed to saying that we should pass the Law on the fight against alcoholism because it's a great evil that unfortunately affects our country to a rather extent, so, and with these others, I agree with what you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32743	I thank my esteemed colleague Reiner for his reply and for the compensation of his time. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32744	Comrade Reiner, you have listed a whole series of compounds that come out of e-cigarette together with a water couple. Why I always thought this law was hypocritical, and today I consider it. So don't tell me there's less harmful compounds in the exhaust gas of an internal combustion engine on fossil fuels? So don't tell me that exhaust gases are less harmful than water steam e-cigarettes? Well, when you're so consistent with the nation's health struggle, so forbid the use of fossil fuels, then I'll believe you. You're saying you're the one for the extra charge. So there wouldn't be a recruiting of young smokers. But that's completely wrong thinking. The increase in excise duties in our environment can only lead to people smuggling more cigarettes from the surrounding environments, which is what they are already doing from BiH. And young people, we have one problem, we have a growing smoker at an adolescent age, and you know why? Because there's no education. For years, we've been interpreting that we need medical education at school, you're not going to introduce it, you're not going to introduce health care. And in this health care education that there is one class 1 class of primary school that would be called addiction, which would warn not only about the harmfulness of tobacco addiction, but about alcohol, drugs, cell phones, internet addiction, so that's what we'd need. And that would be a systematic approach. And this is hypocritical because the state allows the production, planting of tobacco, production, production of tobacco products to collect taxes and excise duties, the state benefits from that. Well, then forbid it if you think it is, ban the production and trade of tobacco products if it's so dangerous. But then you also ban internal combustion engines, so I'm going to trust you, and like this, it's usually hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32745	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic, on the line. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32746	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic, I would say that it is hypocritical what you said because first of all, you know that there is a significant part of people who smoke in the middle years and who will not stop smoking any educational measures. I fully agree with you, I've always advocated health care. Not for what you wanted to get under the health care module 4, but for health care education always, here from this place, I've always advocated health education in schools. And it's necessary, and it's necessary and it would be very good. However, why did I say hypocritically? It's a hypocritical story that if we pick up cigarettes, then there'll be an increase in cigarette smuggling. Well, by that logic, let's allow heroin and cocaine, etc. And some people like it so they won't let them because otherwise it's being smuggled. I'm sorry, that logic doesn't seem to work very well. You know it very well, and you understand what I'm about to say, but you tried one little wrong way to politically score, so you missed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32747	I thank my esteemed colleague Reiner for his reply. The next call came from a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32748	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Reiner. I fully agree with the adoption of non-smoking laws and cigarettes, but I'm afraid we've already passed the law many times, but we haven't followed each other, especially in bars, cafes, restaurants, even trains I travel to, so I see a toilet smoking. I personally think that we should all take a stand, we've all been in smoking bars, unfortunately it was, but we have to fight for our young children, try to ban all closed cigars, especially in cafes, restaurants, public places that we already have here at the hospitals, and even in trains, I can see that the train station has been applied but not enough. Our inspections worked to close the cafe for 25 kuna, wrote the inspection closed the cafe 25 kuna..., but in cafes and in Zagreb I see, I go in smoking, the ventilation certainly isn't good, damages, which my colleague said we don't have to go to those bars, but why not? We do not have to go, it should simply be prohibited by law that this should not happen and that it should not and then be more rigorous punishment than for 25 kuna and 50 kuna, which Linic did at one time with our cafes and played a great fair state. So please, is this law going to be implemented until the end or is it just going to be so much to say, here's the law we passed, but we don't apply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32749	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32750	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Misic, so I have repeatedly stressed that I hope that he will implement himself because that is the meaning of the law because if we do not implement them, then we do not need to bring them in. And as for smoking in cafes and restaurants, I was just pushing for that to be banned and it's not good to refer to someone else, but let's say what counterpart Djujic said is a good idea, but in real life if you offer people who have cafes to choose whether to smoke or not to smoke in their cafe, I guarantee you that 90% of them will choose to smoke because they will have a bigger clientele. Therefore, in my view, when we pass a new law, and I hope that everyone around it will agree, I plead that it is completely prohibited as in many other countries, I have mentioned already from Italy to Ireland to many German countries, etc., to prohibit smoking anywhere food or drink is served. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32751	I thank my esteemed colleague Reiner for his reply. And the last replica of this debate, distinguished colleague Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32752	Dear Mr. Reiner, here you have pointed out in your presentation that every third Croatian or Croatian citizen smokes, that this is the consequence of this being about 14,000 people died from smoking, in the world 6 million people die every year from smoking. The link between smoking and bronch cancer, lungs, heart attack, chronic lung disease and various other diseases is proven not to go into detail now, but what's a big problem which is a lot more important at this point, it's the passive smoking, it's actually the exposure to tobacco smoke of people who are particularly sensitive, and these are children, they're pregnant, they're the sick people who find themselves in the smoking area, and that's why it's one of the extraordinary people who are in the smoking room, and that's why it's one extremely important public health problem to prevent that exposure to people who are not smoking, who don't smoke, how to produce a cigarette, as we've heard here, alcohol is somehow the most harmful to the person who takes it, of course, indirectly others around it, how to produce a cigarette that will harm... that smoke will draw only one who smokes without having any influence on that environment, or people around him, it might contribute to smoking in some of the places that are closed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is important in a cigarette of 4000 chemical ingredients, of which 400 toxins, 43 carcinogenic but no healthy useful ingredient is unfortunately not in that cigarette and yet a third of Croats smoke, 3 billion people in the world smoke and find some satisfaction in that. And that's why I think it's most important how to find and what would be these preventive measures that actually, from the beginning, from small legs, come from kindergartens to raise children, and later and all the other categories of people that don't even take that harmful thing that has 4 thousand ingredients that are negative and none positive and prevent, actually reduce the actual number of people who are going to pollute the environment. What's important is that every cigarette burns for 12 minutes and actually releases into the air and pollutes with its chemical ingredients.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32753	Thank you, dear colleague Karic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32754	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32755	You've been messing around for a while, but good. Answer, dear colleague Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32756	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow, you certainly listed a whole series of reasons why you should fight smoking. However, the fact is one, there is no measure, there is no law that will drastically reduce, let alone remove smoking. That's impossible. This law is one step towards it. I have suggested two more, three steps that we could take by consensus and I think that it exists between us, actually I see it among us in perhaps the next step, some new law that we can bring it to a series of measures of health care and education from childhood to bans and punishments, so there is a whole spectrum of measures that we should apply, I stress that it really applies rather than just on paper to stay in order to reduce those thirds of the adult population to, say, 10%, 11%, how they have some developed countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32757	Thank you, dear colleague Reiner, for this, we have exhausted all the replicas in this debate. After this constructive debate and these constructive replicas and agreements, I hope that we Assembly representatives will first by example encourage all of our citizens to stop using tobacco products so that on our example, others will continue to do the same. The following has been signed up for debate on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Minister of Health, Prof. Milan Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32758	I would like to thank Mr. Klisovic for actually speaking the truth about the harmfulness of smoking ends the division among the parties. I think that here today we should actually make an effort together to try to send a message primarily to Croatian children how harmful smoking is and that it would be good not to enter those waters. And by the way, I'd like to give him an answer, and by the way, I'd like to give an answer if we had a study on spending money. According to a study by the Croatian Institute of Public Health which, of course, is not accurate because it can't be, about a billion and a half kuna a year, we spend on smoking-related diseases. This number is unfortunately also higher because the indirect forms of other diseases that arise as complications and then increase this is directly. And I would also like to call upon the respected representative of the Bunjec to actually degrade only one life so that we can change the laws if we're going to save 1 or 5 lives, which is, let's not argue like that. So we fight for every life and I think if we need to change every day all the laws, so if you want to and the Constitution is less evil than losing one life. And today, when we talk about smoking, we make on our side here as representatives, as a conscience of the loud Croatian people. Let us endure all that is harmful and let us not minorize one, go one life. And that's all I'm saying is that we actually try to concentrate together today, all of us, to stop the harmfulness of cigarettes and tobacco smoke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32759	I would like to thank Mr. Kujundzic, the Honorable Minister. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by an esteemed colleague, Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32760	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, here I am listening to the debate and the whole debate essentially comes down to punishment and ban and all in order to reduce the number of smokers. Well, maybe we should think about another option, which is encouraging measures. I thought about 10 or 15% cheaper insurance for my car, as well as my rent and a series of benefits that I had as a non-smoker. And maybe to turn things around, the story and the other side, to go with incentive measures that might give a lot more results than banning and punishing because, in itself, banning people creates that counterproductive effect. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32761	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lesandric. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32762	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And thank the Minister for this information that I didn't know, and I'm glad that's the kind of analysis that's been made. And I think that the Croatian public must know how much money goes to this purpose which is not justified to me because it is solely the result of irresponsible decisions of people, not of diseases they could not affect. What I think is important, you have told us which, therefore, a million and a half kunas that are directly related to the diseases that go from smoking, and much, much more to those diseases that are indirectly linked and we cannot know for sure. But it would be very good to go to the second stage that I mentioned, which is to try to find a model since we know that Croatian healthcare is in the great deficit for money, find a model of how to transfer these costs to those responsible for them, and the money that goes to them today to move there which is really crucial for Croatian health care so that it can function in a quality way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32763	I thank the esteemed Mr. Klisovic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32764	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, just so you don't forget in those 9,000 died and many who died of a stroke. I just gave a lecture yesterday, and you should know that women who take contraception in 40 years of their lives will get a stroke at 100,000 if they smoke. That number doubles, so smoking has an implications for many and causes many diseases other than lung cancer, but let's go ahead and read you what I actually wanted to score again today. And that is to all of us who have spent our whole lives devoted to the medical profession and saving lives, one of the most challenging tasks is to make people aware of how much harm they do to themselves and everyone around them by eating tobacco products. The fact that in the Republic of Croatia every year more than 9,000 people die from the consequences of smoking is extremely frightening and requires an appropriate reaction. In other words, every fifth person in Croatia dies because of the consequences of smoking. You asked about the expenses. Annually, more than one and a half billion kuna are allocated to the treatment of smoking-related diseases for medicines and illnesses from the budget, and this is not the Croatian Institute for Public Health, but calculated in 2013 by the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. As a doctor and president of the Assembly Health Committee, I must point out today we had a consensus on our committee, so I haven't even read the board's report that it's never too late to stop consumption of tobacco products. A person who stops smoking other than a good example of the environment and a significant savings in money, is not said to be practically one smoker who smokes one house in the course of his life. After one year of abstinence, we can expect a significant decline in risk of developing heart attack. After two to five years of equating the risk of stroke with those who haven't smoked. After five years, the risk of developing mouth, throat, bladder and bladder cancer will be halved and after 10 years of risk for lung cancer development. So it's not too late for them, and after 10 years, they come in a phase like we didn't smoke. So these data should still be a motivation to make a decision that will save smokers' lives. It's never too late for them to do something good for themselves. I also want to say that former smokers live longer than smokers, and smokers on average live 10 years shorter than non-smoking people. What I particularly want to point out is the impact of the promotion of tobacco products. The promotional messages that cigarettes associate with the pleasure or popular lifestyle are very harmful, as young people in the adulthood are very easily influenced and often go back to that age and continue their entire life with a negative habit. So, I condemn any encouragement or promotion of smoking, because those who do so are indirectly responsible for our children's lives, because it's not about current health, but as I said very often it's about lifelong habits. Today, it is fully scientificly documented that smoking as well as other ways of using tobacco is a leading preventable cause of mortality and premature death. So when you quit smoking, you immediately start to reduce your risk. According to the global World Health Organization report on non-infectious chronic diseases in 2014 the use of tobacco is attributed to more than 6 million deaths in the world annually. Another 600,000 a year dies only because of passive smoking, and out of it 170 thousand deaths of children. If urgent and effective measures are not taken, they say that smoking will kill over a billion people in this century. According to the same source in the Republic of Croatia, smoking is attributed 9264 deaths for 2014. So 18% of all deaths in the population from 30 years to more. In the male population, this estimate is as much as 28%, which is more than the average for Europe. And that data, so for the Republic of Croatia, shows that early start of smoking and a large proportion of smokers in the young generation were actually written there because Institute Ivo Pilar was, especially so we were already talking about this very high proportion of children who were already 15 years old, 13 to 15 years old starting to smoke. Thus, it is necessary to build a society where smoking will be socially unacceptable. That process has already begun. Many parents decide not to smoke in children’s rooms, which is what we need to encourage them to do. But we still need a lot of work and coordinated action from all of us to get to a satisfactory level of consciousness. The impact of smoking on health and mortality is most evident in the middle and older age, but as a habit it is often acquired and settled much earlier, and therefore the young primary target group in which it is necessary to try to reduce the appearance of new smokers or help them resolve these harmful habits. Therefore, preventing people in the first place of children and young people from using tobacco requires coordinated activity involving partner approach and states, NGOs, local communities and entrepreneurs. This requires a number of measures in the following key areas to reduce the impact of promotion of tobacco and related products, raise awareness of the effects of tobacco smoke on smokers and non-smoking and public information and education and limit the availability of tobacco and related products to minors and young people. Further work is also needed on measures to protect against passive smoking, regulation of tobacco products content, declaration of content of products and smoke, education of advertising and promotional bans as well as the fight against illegal sales and sales to minors. In connection with the electronic cigarette, we have already stated the position of the World Health Organization, which is of the opinion that an electronic cigarette is not effective in giving up smoking, is only less harmful. Since the use of e-cigarette mimics and normalizes smoking as an electronic cigarette shop can represent intersteps according to nicotine addiction, so the World Health Organization interpreted it, we can really agree, and finally means water and traditional consumption of tobacco. I therefore support the adoption of such a restrictive proposal for the law on the advertising of electronic cigarettes and recharge tanks. So smoking is a habit that can be avoided, and in this way we can avoid exposure to our health risks. In order to effectively control tobacco use, it is important to work together a series of factors that can then create an environment in which smoking will no longer be normal behaviour. Otherwise, experts from the World Health Organisation and the European Commission point out that only the simultaneous application of several measures such as the ban on smoking in public places, including youth education cafes since preschool age, the increase in cigarette prices and a box of scary photos and messages, all together can only reduce this bad and dangerous habit. If we invest all available power we can expect results. Our health is the greatest wealth and we do everything we can to improve the quality of life by limiting the use of tobacco products. The club of the Independent Lists will therefore support such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32765	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. She's the first one to be a respected representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32766	The Honorable Dr. Strenja-Linić from the perspective of the neurologist you well aware of the impact of smoking on stroke. You gave me a few associations, and now I'm setting up here, there are enough doctors, as Djujic said, how many family doctors today motivate patients to quit smoking? Eventually, if it's some kind of breathing disorder, type of asthma, chronic... pulmonary disease or some cancer. How many experts in Croatia today perform quitting programs? I remind you that in 1972, in the KBC, the Sister of Mercy started the Zagreb Non-Smoking School as a model that was then modified in 1988. I'm a psychiatrist for addictions, so according to my information, only two places have a non-smoking school in the Republic of Croatia. So, the responsibility of us as a medic is great to talk about the harmfulness of smoking, the majority of policies not only of health that the EU is declaring are harmful to tobacco consumption, and I will remind you again, so at this point 33% of 15-year-olds in the Republic are current smokers. It's a fragrant piece of information that we all have to imagine.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32767	Thank you. Here is an answer from the distinguished representative Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32768	Well, I especially agree with you, and otherwise I feel that addictions should be given a little more attention. We have given up not only non-smoking school, but we have given up actually not to finance clubs of treated alcoholics who have been very well organized and guided for decades, as we believe the work of the Anti-Drug Office should be expanded to be and the office means a commission that will deal with both gambling and alcoholism. I think much more needs to be given attention about addiction diseases in Croatia, and that includes smoking. Smoking for the time being preventative actions are carried out only by the continuing county and municipal, the city's public health departments that have their actions and are doing so in terms of teaching in elementary schools, I don't think kindergartens are leaving. But I think it's just a small part of it, I think that smoking prevention should go to a few segments, so also prevention, one part of the restriction, and maybe even motivational to make some of those who are non-smokers maybe pay cheaper health insurance and something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32769	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32770	Thank you very much. Mrs Strenja-Linić, you mentioned a lot of things in your discussion that I agree with, but I think we are missing what may be the simplest and best to apply in education of people or promoting the fight against all addictions, which is health education in schools. So unfortunately, there are certain groups there, so I would say that social groups that are opposed to what is normal for our children to know everything and more about life and what is waiting for them and what challenges in elementary schools to be prepared, not to be showered with notes of sanctions and certain things that may then even provoke children to try what is forbidden. I would argue, and I hope that you share that opinion in the MOST club, too, to insist on as many hours as possible in the health care curricula so that young people become aware of the dangers of smoking and other possible risky behaviours, which, unfortunately, some say again in Croatia and associations in Croatia consider their "normals of behaviour". So they'd like to exclude our young people, our children from talking about their lives because it's not appropriate for young people to think about these things at all, and when we don't educate them at home or at school, then young people or children are educated themselves and sometimes put into unnecessary risk situations. So I would ask you to support, in the sense of this law, the activities that go in order to increase health education in schools and get as many hours in the new curricula as possible. I think that's very important, not only about this addiction but also about other risky behaviors that young people at their adolescent age tend to be prone to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32771	Thank you. Reply to the distinguished representative Strenje-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32772	I agree with you. I think you were primarily referring to sexual education within that health system. I was in one of the stands the day before yesterday where I talked about it. Yes, I consider that each person, each, means a child should receive appropriate information from his age that will prevent certain risky behaviors and in some way endanger their life or whatever it may affect, means early pregnancy in the age of 14, 15, because we also have transmitted sexual diseases. Smoking and addiction are also said, there are already, in fact, class community watches as you can track it, there are textbooks in nature and biology, and it is already being implemented. I am for the fact that health care should be given a certain hour within the curricula, but I think it's already being carried out in schools, it's just a question of how interested they are, how well this is presented in one appropriate way because it really shouldn't become something that's a status symbol, not a status symbol, which means that this person, this young person, is a bigger guy if he's already 12, 13 years old, if he has Marlboro or something like that. It's something we just have to explain, so it gets to them and their awareness of how harmful it is with respect to how much bigger guys and more interesting they really are in their society if they smoke. Education and education is really necessary and prevention from the earliest age. Because as the academic said from there, in fact, these future smokers are grouped from there and we, if we reduce within that group, those who start so early, I don't believe that a large percentage of them who start at 30 years of age are going to be bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32773	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32774	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs Strenja-Linić, you said in your statement that about 6 million people die as a result of smoking and so much as because of passive smoking, so 12 million total and that through one partner relationship of state and NGOs should act to suppress this phenomenon. You know, the state exists, one of its basic tasks is to protect people's lives and health. It is so important that it enters the area of national security as well. When I wrote the National Security Strategy, one of the addresses I went to was the Minister of Health, at the time Mr Rajko Ostojic. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Health, Rajko Ostojić, and I asked him for ideas on how to improve the health of people in Croatia. Today, a new National Security Strategy is being written and the whole business is co-ordinated and led by Deputy Prime Minister Krsticevic. I ask the minister to somehow, get in touch with Deputy Prime Minister Krstičević, not to be excluded from this because the national must not be exhausted just in our measures of defence against the aggression that comes from outside, from terrorism. National security is a threat to all those national interests that one nation has. Life of citizens, health of citizens... are certainly something that is very important from that perspective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32775	Thank you. Reply to the distinguished representative Strenje-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32776	Correction, so in the world 6 million die from the consequences of smoking directly, and 600,000, they're dying but like passive smokers. I think you're absolutely right about the National Strategy and everything that actually attacks our nation's health is definitely affecting national security. I'm going to commit myself, not so much to your answer, not with this topic today, but on the basis of that, we've had a session of the Assembly Committee on vaccinations or the threat of national security is the right not to vaccinate children but thus endangering the greater percentage of those who are unvaccinated are jeopardizing the national security of this country because if you have a vaccination of less than 94%, we'll be re-occupied infectious diseases that we've already forgotten, child paralysis is no longer in Europe, there's no rubella, there's no such disease, there's no diphtheria, all that we've actually forgotten to have but because we've been vaccinated. All of this falls within the scope of national security, and we must have a clear view of it as parliamentary representatives because it definitely affects national security, and therefore we must also send relevant medical evidence-based messages from here rather than passing modern ways that actually want to direct our public and disinformation. And that's why I'm also calling on the media to support it to only spread to medicine, evidence-based medical data on what actually means public health today. And as for infectious diseases, as well as smoking and anything that could endanger health in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32777	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32778	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Strenja-Linić, I listened carefully to what you said and I want to tell you that I agree with you in one of your findings, which is that you should start to build a society where smoking is as such, socially unacceptable behavior. So that's what I'm telling you as a heavy smoker, I'm afraid I've been smoking two boxes a day and I haven't had one, actually I've been able to quit smoking once for some nice four years. So it's not that you can't, you can, but the risks are always. When you see a cigarette, a stressful situation moves on. But what I'm saying is, I've seen, I've been in situations where a man when he's, like, out there somewhere, for example. in America as one of the examples of countries where smoking as a phenomenon has become so socially unacceptable that after a while you really feel bad when you have to look for where you're going to light a cigarette and even someone who smokes a lot, I don't know, 40 cigarettes a day, I mean it's scary data because I'm playing my lungs in the morning, I mean, coughing terrible things out, after a while I give up. So if you're on your way after a while, you give up. So the point is what I was going to say. First and foremost, there is no need to threaten some form of repression in terms of smoking ban. This is what many smokers avoid, and on the other hand what is also important is prevention, as well as building a message of a society in which smoking is to that extent seen as one of the stupid things that you do to yourself, a self-initiated injury. Because after a while she just gets unpopular, it becomes popular to be a non-smoker, and I've experienced that a lot of times in situations where people look at me like I don't know a crazy person because I smoke. And I think that's what we need to strive to make a cigarette simply socially unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32779	Here will be answered by the distinguished representative Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32780	I'll just answer your replica, interesting are text warnings about it today we haven't even talked about, which is smoking increases the risk of impotence, smoking reduces fertility. Smoking children are more likely to start smoking on their own because it is a transfer form. Smoking can kill your unborn child, too. So the messages are clear and I think it should be clear to everyone how harmful smoking is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32781	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32782	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Honored Ministers Professor Kujundzic, Honored Representative Mrs Linic. In the world, it smokes about 3 billion and 300 million people. Since smoking, about six million people die. Every eight seconds in the world, one man dies as a consequence of smoking. In Croatia, one third of Croats smoke, 38% of men, 33% of women. So there is a causal link between smoking and some diseases such as lung cancer, broncha, myocardial infarction, chronic obstructive lung disease. So nicotine itself is in small amounts of stimulant, but it has been proven that there are a large number of harmful, toxic ingredients in the smoke and some 43 to 70% of carcinogenic ingredients, according to data. Smoking causes a clear psycho-physical addiction, so nicotine acts on a vegetative nervous system and is implanted in the metabolism. According to the recommendations of the World Health Organization or writing... They suffer from smoking, so passive smokers get hurt. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] It is not only true that e-cigarettes have inside them or appear after smoking steam, but there is a large amount of additives that are carcinogenic. Smoking became a socially acceptable habit at the beginning of the 20th century. Today we must fight and education must go in that sense that it is not a socially acceptable habit I think that smoking should be banned, not only in closed areas, not tobacco cigarettes, but also in e-cigarettes and in public areas where there is a high concentration of people and people. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32783	Thank you. Reply by the respected representative Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32784	I thank you for your replica. I'm sorry that today we don't have as complete a law as the academic thought it would be, and that's to ban actually smoking in all closed rooms because I think today what consensus here is present, that today we would actually manage to push and debate. The question is, there should be an immediate vote. The consensus is clearly clear and I think that the amendments to the law should, so those who should suggest that smoking should be banned in all closed rooms something that should actually be pursued. It was interesting to me when I was in America in 2000 that I was already in the hospital where I worked 200 meters away was not prohibited from smoking. I said, well, we're out in the open, and that's when my hospital was still smoking. Today, we have slowly adopted that there is no smoking in hospitals, but I think we need to be more restrictive about whether these laws are being implemented. And the consensus I hope we have when we propose a full law on what it's supposed to look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32785	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Linic, I listened very carefully to your debate and I must commend her, she was very good and very educational. It's 93 days for me not to smoke, not to light a cigarette, and now I've learned from your debate how reduced my risk of illness has been. And I just want to point out that, however, I'm generally against bans, against restrictions, etc. Even though it has its results. But I want to point out here that we certainly need to work on prevention, education and as much as possible at the age of young people, because young people have to look at these pictures at school that we have on cigarettes and these messages that you read here. Because when a young person comes to the kiosk and buys a cigarette or someone buys a box, then it's over, then more messages that are on the box and these pictures are no longer worth anything. So we need to step up in schools and work harder on it. And I'd just like to say here more about the e-cigarette one thing. I've been reading and studying a little bit, part of it, and now during this debate. Some think she's less harmful, maybe she's, maybe she's not really that I don't know. Anyway, it's probably less harmful than a cigarette, but it's as bad as a cigarette, and it needs to be sent a message from here that it's not good either, that it might make it easier for someone, but it's certainly just as bad as a cigarette, it's just as bad. And I just wanted to point that out one more time, because that's what I wanted in my previous replicas, so I ran away a little bit, I didn't make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32787	And the last replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32788	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Linic, here's a little joke. The man came to the kiosk so he bought cigarettes, on them he wrote smoking could cause impotence, he said ma'am please replace me with those for cancer. So why this joke? People are aware of addicts, if we're talking about addiction, I'm not a doctor you probably know it's a disease, it's a disease. People are addicted and they need help. Nor is it a question that these people might want to quit smoking, but they can't deal with it because of different and socialities at the end of the categories. He says every society has its own drugs, so it's been through history. If we look back when I was in high school, the teachers were smoking at school while they were teaching. So this society has made a significant shift, it's not enough, but there's been a shift, and today many things are unacceptable. What you pointed out, and this should also be taken into account, that smokers act harmfully on other people and take an example of the restaurant if the restaurant owner decides to be a smoker's place, what about the waiter who works in that restaurant, he can't choose, he's an employee, so he has to be exposed to that tobacco smoke. On the one hand, we have the interest of the caterer, of course, to have as much traffic as possible to make that worker pay, and on the other hand, we have harmfulness. But what's most important right now, we're talking about young people who are going to be smokers tomorrow, I've been president of a football club for ten years, and believe me, sports is a very strong means of fighting addiction. What should be considered in Croatia, and you have pointed out that you need a wider action in society, as much as possible by mass sports, as much as possible for small clubs to get more substantial financial resources, that they do not even have to pay coaches who are enthusiastic on black. Look, people have to pay their coach on black because they don't have enough money, so they have to manage somehow, so one bigger action, especially through sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32789	Thank you. Reply to the esteemed representative Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32790	I agree with you, it's actually an emergency. I know that at least in Rijeka there's a lot of talk about how much it's costing sports and starting and supporting all these small clubs, it's not about relitism and individual sport that needs to be honored, encouraged and all, but mass sports or mass exercise. What I did not say, which is that 15 days ago or three weeks ago, we had a thematic session that presented a programme that received funding from the European Social Fund “Healthy Life” within which one of the modules is also dedicated to disease addiction or smoking and one model of physical activity. I think sport is one of the best solutions for preventing addiction in young people as regards smoking but also drugs because as we know it is a very large increase, especially in these new types of drugs that are increasingly available on our market. It's the only way we get these kids off the street, move from bad associations, and involve them in something that's a real healthy life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32791	Thank you. We will now move to SDP's Club of Representatives in the name of which the distinguished representative Sinish Varga will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'd be happy to start by writing on TV screens here right now, saying Smoking kills, and that's something that's an integral part of this law that keeps repeating it from all instances, on TV screens, radios, newspapers, smoking harmfulness and the consequences of smoking as a very bad habit. And the contrast of what we all know as medical knowledge of how harmful smoking is, however, in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately smoking is socially acceptable behavior and that is something that we all have to work on together. It is a great responsibility for both the media and us as politicians, but also for those who are professionally involved, and these are the Croatian Institute of Public Health, as well as all county and city institutions for public health who have to put much more work into the issue of curbing smoking as a phenomenon in Croatian society. We have before us a law which is primarily before us today to bring them into line with the EU Directive 2014/40/EU and that is something that brings a lot of novelty about the packaging of tobacco and tobacco related products, as regards their transport and the way their ingredients make them, the suppression of the appearance of aromas, the appearance of certain compounds, additives and all that enters this law is regulated by the European Parliament and the Council of the harmonisation of laws and other rules of the Member States in the production, presentation and sale of tobacco, tobacco and related products. I would also primarily like to commend only the Ministry of Health and the Minister for the material ahead of us. In fact, the opening part of the assessment of the situation and the basic question that is being regulated by the proposed law, and the consequences that the law will result in is very educational, informative not only for the parliamentary representatives, because, since it is also available on the Council's websites, I call on everyone to read it carefully because all figures that today are related to the mortality and frequency of the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco related products and what is devastating from the fact that 9264 deaths or even 18% of all deaths in the population of 30 years and older are attributed to the Republic of Slovenia. It also speaks of habits, about the increasing early start of smoking, about the availability of tobacco to primary school students and what does not say, and this is an increasingly common share of girls compared to boys in smoking, and I believe that since today is Women's Day and all that comes from women's health and reproductive health, and everything is also proven to be a distinct use of tobacco and tobacco related products to have a profound impact on women's health. I can also join Sasa Djujic as a former smoker. I'm the same. This is about 18 years from now for me to quit smoking. I think it's an extremely difficult habit and it's not easy to stop, but today regardless of this law, help is already available today. Here you can write down your phone number, 0800 7999 that's the number anyone can call and get the first information about how, as soon as possible and as effective as possible, ask for help to get rid of these bad habits and we can even talk about the addiction of nicotine and cigarettes and get rid of it. Finally, I would say that the SDP club in principle supports this legislative proposal in the form of it as proposed before us. We believe that in the first reading it may be that through further classes and improvements that will undergo the law itself in the ministry may also affect some amendments later but for now the SDP Club supports the law as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32793	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32794	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Varg, here I join yours, and your support and praises especially in this part of the analysis. Surely the problem we have with Croatia today, Croatia with a smoking addiction, is large and especially when it comes to such a large number of people who smoke in Croatia. Right now, it's about 30 percent, so every 3rd citizen is an active smoker. When we add all these to this, I would say the difficulties that are happening in terms of health, budget and all, should be as much activated as possible and I would say to make additional efforts to fight with this addiction as effectively as possible and bet that we will all be here in the Croatian Parliament with two hands in the air on Friday when we have to vote on this. I don't know how much, here's this shock therapy that's happening right now, and I'd like to see those studies, so we see right now in Croatia, and there are pictures of cancers and other smoking-related diseases, and I'd like to know if it's going to desimulate smokers, and whether it's going to help one part of people to get rid of one part of people, whether it's a higher price and more excise duty that could be introduced, whether it's some other models that are related to health and you said car insurance. So there are many models that we can kind of stimulate people to leave a cigarette but here's how much you personally think this campaign is about publishing photographs of severe illnesses effectively for people to leave this vice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32795	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32796	Thank you, colleague Maras. Public health professionals recognise their activity through certain interventions. Therefore, what public health, public health specialists or epidemiologists do in the public to combat certain phenomena are called interventions. On the issue of coping with bad smoking habits, various methods have been tried worldwide through public health actions, through education, through financial penalties. What has been proven in the world as the main way, the main two interventions are to curb and reduce availability and increase prices. It's proven on the subject of cigarettes that it's the way it's being contained. There are then auxiliary, auxiliary means like these pictures being put on, limiting availability in terms of hiding in the windows that it is not available to see cigarettes in the kiosk, we already have that in place today. And these are all measures to curb and reduce the attractiveness of cigarettes for minors and young smokers to begin at all. But also what we're going to have to work on is the question of the price of a pack of cigarettes because it's proven to be a measure that significantly affects smokers and their decision whether to smoke or stop smoking. The objection from the Ministry of Finance and I personally heard it several times and I personally do not accept that the Croatian border is too pornic that there is too much smuggling and that it will only encourage it. We as a country entering the Schengen regime, and we are working very hard to achieve Schengen standards, I believe that this cannot in any way be an excuse and I believe that the price must also be consistent with those prices in the European Union and thus reduce the availability of cigarettes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32797	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32798	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Varg, you have said that smoking in Croatia is socially acceptable behavior, unfortunately. We both agree. So it's not even modernism anymore. Smoking went into fashion in society somewhere in the early 20th century. I would say that in the early 21st century it began to come out of fashion especially in those countries and in those countries that are so-called. trenders, so some Western democracies which Croatia always turns to. If this is socially acceptable behavior, then we can safely say, I'd like to hear your opinion that he's scheduled an education system. An educational system that needs simple children, explain to them what is acceptable and why something is acceptable or not. The colleagues mentioned health care or civic education, we can call it whatever we want, and this should be part of such an education at school. And there is no ideology and there must be no ideology, there is only common sense and the benefits of children, the benefits of future adult members of this society. But not only did the children or the education system fail, we all failed as a public because we simply tolerate one behaviour that we consider intimately not appropriate, but so we turn our heads and make it appropriate and give it citizenship status in our society. For me, smoking on the road when you're walking Ilic is just as much as spit on the road to that same. When you sit in a restaurant and try to eat your lunch or dinner and someone blows smokes cigarettes in your face, just like they spit you in your face. So for me, it's unacceptable behavior, and I think we all need to show what's acceptable and what's not acceptable when we can't already have one common link between ethical behavior in society itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32799	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32800	I thank my colleague Klisovic. When it comes to social-acceptable behavior and we've been talking since we were kids. When we talk about the educational system there is an emphasis on all those teachers and teachers from primary school and high school professors I talked to. Everyone tells me that long ago schools and high schools, primary schools in Croatia stopped being educational institutions, just became educational schools. And just that mechanical education, as such, has excluded everything that concerns socially acceptable behavior, and then, of course, it has failed everything related and social acceptance regarding bad habits whether it is smoking, alcohol and everything else. And it is left to overworked families who simply or do not have the knowledge or the will to raise their children properly in that sense. And these figures, simple statistics are inexorable when we talk about 35% of the smoking population in Croatia, when we talk about an increasing number of underage smoking, that there are infamously we are ranked compared to other European countries and that is something that requires much more aggressive intervention as regards public health, but also all of us. We intervene in laws, but public health needs a much deeper bite into the people themselves in order for these socio-political behaviours to be contained. Finally, I would just point out the same way that, here is the ministry recently received, i.e. the Croatian Institute of Public Health signed a large funding project "Living healthy" where it has certain segments that touch bad life habits and it is very commendable and should be rerouted as soon as possible and this 30 million should be rerouted to these interventions, which gives the greatest effects on the improvement and disease of the population in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32801	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32802	Dear Representative Varga, I hope that this law too, which will undoubtedly be adopted after the second reading, can be a sort of action plan. Because the better implementation of this law will reduce the incidence of smoking. So there is a National Action Plan to combat drug abuse. At the county level, there are action plans related to drugs, alcohol. Some action plan may also be needed to reduce smoking among the Croatian population. And all these action plans, on the one hand, aim to reduce demand, and on the other hand to reduce supply and prevention. The role of the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the County Institute for Public Health in the implementation of national preventive programmes has been mentioned several times. I have to admit that as a person who has spent my entire life working with addicts, it was only odd to me that two weeks ago I heard that there was a prevention program in Croatia to stop smoking in pregnant women as it is, so we have a lot of things on paper, but unfortunately they're not having a good time. And I'm glad you mentioned this number 08007999 while you were a minister and there was an increase in the number of those who were reporting there. It seems to me that it was a regional office in Osijek where they were students. But now because of the increased use of that number, it might not be bad if we had one special number just as far as this smoking is concerned, even though this is a good move. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32803	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32804	Here I am thanking my colleague Cellic. Here you as a professional psychiatrist know very well what intervention measures must be done on an individual level in terms of curbing dependence in individuals. Public healthcare professionals deal with the entire population. As politicians, we have our part in the creation of a legislative framework in which it all works together. What I've always asked all health care professionals are psychiatrists, dentists, interns, neurologists, everyone in their direct sub specialist activity has their daily job but has to single out one part of their work for public health. Is it through the clubs of treated patients, whether through public interventions in the media to address all those diseases that can be contained in reduction, or prevention. This document that we received from the Ministry of Health clearly and loudly states that cancer is caused by smoking the most common disease that is preventable. Which means, if a person is prevented from smoking, the number of people who die or suffer from lung and bronch cancer will be drastically reduced. It is that simple, and this means even more translated when we look out of the eyes of the Croatian Institute of Public Health overpriced funds are derived from the state budget belonging to Croatian healthcare one third of the excise duty on tobacco. However, when the cost of tobacco is summed up, Articles 68 and 78. The mandatory health insurance law, when all that has been spent is summed up, is taken away, which is spent not on health spending, and these are maternity benefits and sick leave we get de facto that the state budget co-finances health from zero kuna, from zero kuna. Therefore, the state has simply failed to finance everything that we are talking about here today. I believe that the full excise duty belongs to health care and that the smokers have spent that they should simply return the health care system for their own treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32805	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative of Tomislav Sauche.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Varga, you were talking about methods and you mentioned that one of the more effective methods is to increase the price I think, I would not agree as unfortunately hard as the smoker as much as the price rises. It's an addiction. So, you can raise the price to I don't know there were 25 kunas, a certain brand of cigarettes, now it's 27. If there's 35 people, they'll still be shopping. Unfortunately, it's addiction. You have to satisfy addiction. As for, for example, I don't know in New York is the price of a box of $10, but I think as much as I think an increase in prices affects me, I think, to some extent, yes, but not entirely. As for these pictures, I've seen some of them come up, and even now there's a cigarette holster that you don't have to look at these pictures, so that's what happens. As much as I agree with my colleague, Djujic, I am also not a supporter of restrictions, but in this case here as someone who can't be difficult, I can't get rid of cigarettes, and I would love to. I spend money on it, I poison myself with it, and I think the restrictions after a while are acceptable. Here's another day on the plane today you have in some old models you have ashtrays and it says... /The speaker speaks English./...which means that not long ago even on planes you could smoke. Today, it's unimaginable for anyone on a plane to even think about burning. For example, in restaurants today, it has become unimaginable for someone in the restaurant to burn down, so slowly society accepts it. I mean, I'm probably gonna be criticized by some of my smoking friends for this, but at least here I'm not a hypocrite. I say I'm a smoker and I'll probably go to the balcony and light a cigarette, but I'd like to get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32807	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed representative, Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32808	Thank you. Here I would suggest a green tea without sugar instead of that cigarette, so that at least something healthy can be brought into the body. In fact, the point is that fighting malignant diseases and bad human habits is literally what it is, it's a struggle and you have enemies in every fight. You only have a fight as a disease as such, but you have all those who still encourage it, so you have a tobacco industry that produces these holsters and shares them for free. We had in America alone you had not so long ago about fifteen years ago you had commercials on TV with a cartoon-shaped cigarette that attracted the young population to accept cigarettes like here kids watch cartoons and smoke cigarettes. Therefore, these are all the things that have been contained to the point that on public television or on networks in North America it is forbidden... to record the contributions of people who smoke, cannot be shown. And what's convenient, you can only show characters who are villains in shows and movies, only villains and bad people can be shown to smoke. And that's what I'm saying again, it's interventions, it's interventions that are done to turn this around. Because pure repression, mostly somewhere that results aren't anywhere. On the subject of a soda drink, Mayor Bloomberg was in New York when you mentioned New York, forbidding the sale of soda sweetened drinks in packings of more than a half a liter. So if you were going to drink a liter of coke or something, you had to buy three bottles, not those supersizes of two liters of this, that's because people then lose weight for what they drank. It was proven that it had no effect as a public health measure did not affect it, but the man tried. I'm against defectism to say it, so people are like that, so we won't even try. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32809	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the HNS-HSU on behalf of which they will speak the distinguished representative Bernarda Topolko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32810	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here we have today a bill on restricting the use of tobacco and related products. We have heard that already the third proposal, or two laws, we have had, this is now the third proposal of this law, which means that we need to speak in it in order to make things work to finally go into service or to bring that law to life. We heard that Croatia is the third to die of cancer in the world, and unfortunately Međimurje County is the first in number of cancers. Is that a sign that the Međimurians smoke more? She wouldn't say, she didn't rank everyone else. It is well written and it is already Mr. Varga mentioned, research by the Institute Ivo Pilar and I certainly think it is necessary to repeat once again that in 2015 37.7% of men and 33% of women aged 15 to 64 smoke. It is also regrettable that more and more children and young people aged 18 years are listed 25% of the question as to how long it is now in 2017. In fact, we're witnessing the environments of our schools, you go out to the school yard whether it's a primary school, whether it's a high school you can see groups of boys, girls in the bushes, no bushes, smoke, smoke, you should be wondering where the parents are, where the teachers are. However, the system is as it is, as soon as they get out of the building, they do as they please. I also believe that, like the majority of those who came forward today for replication, that this measure, i.e. with the introduction of tobacco harmfulness, should take place already in primary school, is foreseen in this Article 35th programme of promoting knowledge of the harmfulness of the use of tobacco and related products for health among all ages of children and youth and paragraph 1 of this article, which will be brought by the Minister responsible for education with the opinion of the Minister. This programme will be adopted within 3 months of the adoption of this law. I think we should start that program as soon as possible, so when the law is passed and I hope we'll all support it to be ready and that program. Furthermore, what we all got into our e-cigarette boxes I agree with that it entered the law to prohibit and use and advertise and sell e-cigarette. We've seen from this memo that it's like, you know, using e-cigarettes that try to quit smoking. However, I am witnessing that this is not the case. I think we've seen a lot of other witnesses that it's happening, we see a gentleman or a lady, it doesn't matter if she smokes an e-cigarette, the rest of us normally are smokers, not smokers have to put up with it because it's been allowed so far. But in a few minutes, you'll see that same gentleman or lady outside smoking neatly with the rest of the classic cigarette. So we support the fact that the e-cigarette entered the law of ban, which also entered the ban on advertising and sales because we are witnessing the entry into large trade chains. Already at the entrance, stands are set with e-cigarette sales. This law also provides for the style processing of a pack of cigarettes. But they showed up at the kiosk, at least as much as I've had a chance to hear a pack of cigarettes these days. And up the Croatian coat of arms. I think we should supplement this law so that such an option is sold off. Because this way those images that were supposed to have preventive action will have no preventive effect. The smoking ban in closed rooms is now in effect where meals are served. However, we are allowed to smoke in closed rooms and if the owner of a cafe or a restaurant has the intended ventilation. We're witnessing that this ventilation doesn't usually work, or that it does a natural ventilation, and that's where the door opens, and then it's projecting something. And the ventilation was also mentioned even on the board today for saving electricity most often does not work. So we're saying we should ban smoking in all closed rooms. Also in Article 25, it is now predicted, mostly that ashtrays can be set up in health institutions after 20 metres, no ashtrays are written, but that smoking is prohibited in the area of 20 metres from entry into the health care facility. Unfortunately, today we are witnessing that ashtrays are being placed at the very entrance of hospitals and even in hospitals for pulmonary diseases. This is even what I think should be taken out of the back yard of hospitals, not that the ashtrays are on their way into the hospital. Here, so much, the HNS and HSU club will support this law in the first reading, so hopefully in the second, there will be even more improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32811	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32812	Thank you very much. You mentioned Mrs. Topolko in your discussion the problem that is happening even in the school education system. You also mentioned that, say, places, where smoking is allowed should not be within 20 meters, according to the law regarding health care institutions but why not expand it to schools? Why wouldn't they put 100 meters from educational institutions, meaning primary and secondary schools that cafes can't have any smoking facilities at all? Well, then the kids who, say, have a watch or are late for school so they went for coffee, etc., or buy a sandwich in those cafes so they don't even come in that way with a cigarette. So there's still a lot of possibilities that I would say advanced. And another thing I'd like to see in our inspectors and in our criminal courts is to see any punishment that someone paid somewhere for selling tobacco to a minor or the one who gave a minor and bought it as if he had bought it for himself. Come on, come on, so we've got these sanctions scheduled, we've got it planned but it's not actually happening. I didn't see anyone being punished for selling to a minor or alcohol or cigarettes. So we don't work on that side, we can make the legislation whatever we want, as high-quality as it is if in practice it doesn't mean anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32813	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Topolko.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32814	Thank you. Dear Mr. Maras, that I mentioned that the ashtrays should be removed from the yard. Of course we should get out of school. As a matter of fact, there's no smoking around the school. It's also the current law. However, this is more true for teachers than for children, or teachers who generally follow it. But children, what is forbidden is sweeter. And as soon as they find a chance at the first bush, a meter from the school building happens. The teachers are in the classroom. They're normally not even obliged to follow the children for 24 hours. It happens, mostly the gatherings are around the school and at school playgrounds and weekends and afternoons when neither class is available. Unfortunately, here's the law that currently provides for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32815	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32816	Dear Representatives Topolko, you mentioned the good introduction of these amendments, or the addition of laws related to electronic cigarettes. I believe that the other MPs and MPs also received a letter from the Croatian Employers' Association. I understand that the Croatian Employers' Association is fighting for every job in the Republic of Croatia, but I do not understand that they have some of their indicators and let their research on how electronic cigarettes are less harmful than regular cigarettes, so they are looking accordingly for amendments to certain articles. So I think that what is stated in the directive and why it is, means the fundamental reason for the addition of this law to electronic cigarettes, I think that's the direction in which we should go. And what academic Rainer also mentioned about the ban, I absolutely support the full ban. However, if we were to achieve a situation at this point that no smoking can be done in restaurants I think we would be very much ahead of the current situation. Because just to make some kind of breakthrough and tonight he walks around 20 Zagreb restaurants believe me that more than half would be allowed to smoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32817	Thank you. Here's a response from Honorable Representative Topolko.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32818	I agree with you that e-cigarettes should certainly be put into this law as I do, because this law restricts the use of tobacco products whether they are less or less talked about in quantity, tobacco products and their harmfulness. And as for these cafes as you mentioned, the mass of the coffee shop is smoky, smoke inside, they have a ventilation as complex as it is. That if we forbid them from smoking in all closed spaces, then you'll avoid it. However, as soon as there's a possibility of smoking in one part of the cafe, the other part I don't smoke, I can tell you from experience on coffee 10. Two of them smokes, and all 10 of them sits in the smoking room. I mean willingly, but there's always more interesting. And if we don't ban a completely closed space, we've done nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32819	Thank you. And we move on to an individual debate that has been attended by the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, my colleagues from the Ministry. When we talk about this Law on restricting the use of tobacco and related products, i.e. by taking over certain standards that apply to the EU, I absolutely advocate that, ha I would say I may not have some experience in that part, given that I am not a smoker and I cannot look from that position. But I agree that we are going in the direction in which smoking will in some way detimulate and make Croatia a country in which healthy life is promoted and in such a way that as few people consume tobacco products. What I'm trying to say is I was lucky in my life because when I was a kid, I came across a cigarette, I lit two smokes, I was sick, and it made me sick. So here's something that's been putting me as a child and some experience instilled a negative I'd say a relationship to a cigarette, but I'm aware of the problem that's going on between our young people and what I said earlier is not about a ban on smoking around schools, but it's about a ban on smoking area in places where young people get together after school and before school, which is in a particular school circle. So if it is mentioned that smoking is banned 20 meters around health institutions, I simply don't see why such or similar criteria would not apply in public spaces around the educational institutions themselves. So let's say that's one proposal that I make to see if it's possible to define it that way. On the other hand, I absolutely support the fact that I finally got rid of this story about the minor harmfulness of certain brands or tobacco products, because I've already had the chance to smoke, even though I don't, I didn't have to, but I was asked to buy a cigarette smoker. And then there was always a story of light, not like that, not red Marlboro, but light Marlboro. Oh, no? Or I don't want a dark blue Marlboro, I don't know if I'm breaking the law by advertising cigarettes at all. I'm sorry, and I won't mention it anymore. I did this unconsciously. But what I'm saying is that people in Croatia and those who smoke and those who don't smoke must be aware of the harmfulness and I absolutely agree with that in the future. And I would like to see until the second reading whether it is possible for us to have stronger standards than those in the EU in terms of both tar and nicotine and carbon monoxide per cigarette, which is why we would not have stricter criteria than those applied in EU countries. I agree with most of the things that are defined in the law and with promotional measures. What worries me about the ban on advertising absolutely, but how you're going to control the online advertising ban because, for example, here we're talking about e-cigarettes, so it didn't even exist until a few years ago, and then it came up as a product that used to quit smoking, and eventually it started slowly and started to replace smoking, and now you have manufacturers that sell online all over the world. And now you're not going to be able to control where it's sold or to control whether or not it's being advertised because, for example, if it's advertised on the servers of some companies that are registered in countries where it's allowed, I really don't understand how we're going to limit it, and it's not bad because it's the main sales channel for these types of products, it's certainly not advertised on TV because it's too expensive and there's no idea that it's actually advertised in conventional media but it's done, it started through some articles a few years ago, but it's now done online and you can pay attention to whether there's at least any way you can limit those who produce or do it in Croatia to be impossible to advertise their products in this way. I agree again with you that probably that part of the product or leads to the active smoking of tobacco products or also has a certain health impact that you would like to avoid. I also want to say that as a country where we have certain traditions, it is not possible to change it overnight, but every step towards something that will allow fewer people to smoke, that lower costs and damages to the health of people in the Republic of Croatia should be welcomed. I think we will all agree here together that this is something that will not cause some political debate, but we will all give full support to it and I hope that we will achieve a certain result and have a measure after a few years. Here's a colleague of Strenja-Linić's said how much it takes for the risk of certain diseases in smokers to return to what a non-smoking man has, that we will really see it in the coming years and in 10, 15 years in certain statistics where our people are less sick than certain diseases associated with smoking. So here's the minister I believe you'll have the unison support of the Parliament. I'd like certain things that I can still define I've said about educational institutions, about advertising, so maybe you see because you're a lot, here in the law I've noticed all lying on the minister, so he's defined certain regulation fees, which I know you'll have commissions, but can people who aren't connected to the ministry be involved, but are linked to certain institutions that can contribute to their experience. I know that the definition of a rulebook is the simplest but often too often, too much weight is placed on the back of one person, and sometimes too much responsibility or power is concentrated, and I know that sometimes it's not the simplest thing because arbitration leads to situations that aren't the most desirable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32821	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32822	Dear colleague Maras, I have listened to your debate and in fact what we have all agreed and we are all unique in that it is one evil. I've been a passionate smoker for a little over a year or so, two boxes a day, about 50 kuna and more, and I've given up on that vice, and I think it's one process that's really going to last. We all remember our youth and the bus when the door opened when we went to school, it smoked from the inside like a burning furnace. In the back of the seat were those ashtrays, the wagons were in those compartments we all smoked. And I think it really takes a certain period of time to accept that it's something ugly, that it's bad, and I think we're right now at this time and therefore we need to support the minister and all of our efforts to be unique to those who smoke and I when I smoked that I had to feel uncomfortable in the company of other people. It's more of a psychic thing to act on people, we who are mature already understand that. But what scares me, it's exactly the fact that a very large number of the youngest since the age of 12, 13, 14, here's your colleague mentioned it is acceptable to accept that vice and smoke. And not to mention that part of the novelty that goes in with that kind of chemical industry that I call it, those electronic cigarettes when we don't even know what's in that little ampoule that fills it and what's more, and what's going to happen in the coming years. Although some, and I can see that this is happening in Croatia, it seems to me that in Slavonski Brod they have launched a slightly wider production and it is already becoming a particular market. So it's important in all of this to be as complex as you suggested given full support and to the ministry in this part and a little bit of influence that one who smokes when a cigarette is lit to make him uncomfortable because of what he's doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32823	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32824	Okay, that's one measure that I don't really agree with to make someone very uncomfortable and be ashamed of. So we still need to be aware that people in Croatia have certain habits and that we do not need them because they smoke to make them feel bad in society. It takes measures, not to point a finger at someone, look at him, that I don't know him or anything like this, what he needs to do, should affect his consciousness and develop it for years, and lead to people legally refusing to do it because they themselves are aware of it, not because they are ashamed and will smoke secretly. So I'm not sure it's going to contribute, but I agree that it should support the minister but in a way that he proposes the law, and not personally because he didn't, we don't have to support the minister if we support this law proposed by the minister. There are ministers and some laws we do not support but this law and as an opposition, as an opposition we will surely support. What you said earlier, that this is a manufacturer and I will find it interesting to see, how it will be controlled, so it is a manufacturer not in Brod but in Nova Gradišca, how it will reflect because this man, that company, is selling 90 and more of his online products, etc. And it will be interesting to see how this market will be regulated very quickly and that it has clearly found its nothingness in this entire industry. I agree, and it is a challenge that in 10 years from now, to adopt such laws to see a trend that will cheer us all up together, which is that young people don't smoke. And once again, I'm going to say that I'd like to put here about these educational institutions, I don't think it's discriminatory, I think there's a lot of places around schools that exist and that could thus limit young people from getting in touch with tobacco products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32825	Thank you. And now the word will be taken by the Honorable Minister of Health, Milan Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32826	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I actually just wanted to thank you, not as a minister, but because you supported the law and because you supported above all the fight against smoking and the harmfulness of smoking. First of all, he wants to thank the representatives of the clubs and everyone today who discussed it. And when we differed in shades I think we were all on the same track, that unfortunately smoking is harmful and that all together, by passing laws as soon as possible, we should try to protect Croatian children. As far as the schoolyard is concerned, he's already, the ban is in him, there's no smoking in him, you're good, or there's no smoking in him. And with regard to inclusion because what we can fix and amend this law and past the institutions we in the ministry are open to any useful suggestions that we can possibly integrate into the new law. And I believe that we will all be very proud of this together and thus send the EU message not to think about any sanctions because we were a little late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32827	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And this will end the work for today. I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30. First, it will be on the agenda of the draft law amending the Law on Associations, first reading, P.Z. No. 98. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-08-0.u32828	The next item is the proposal for a law on the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 102. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. The proposal for a law on the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law.’. Please, let's get involved and vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes 117 for, four abstentions and one against us have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
