ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55777	I thank the chairman, I would like to request a 10-minute break for the political situation in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55778	You got it. Is anyone else picking up for a break? Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55779	Thank you, Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55780	Thank you. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55781	On behalf of the GLAS and HSU club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes, a current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55782	You got it. I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55783	On behalf of the SDP club, we should also sublime all three breaks on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55784	That's it, we move on at 9.55 minutes. It's 9:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:55 A.M.]] The first word came out on behalf of the club MOST's independent list of respected colleagues, Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55786	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, it is an intolerable ease for all to resist, affairs, suspicions, to push under the carpet. The investigation committee that was left, could have questioned all new witnesses, could have questioned the prime ministers, ministers, state secretaries. Then it could happen that they would sit across from the members of the commission and also present evidence of the way the political and economic crime has spread. Some will say that the investigation committee did not do much because some witnesses were silent, of course certain witnesses had syncope, right, but that syncope made it clear what was going on. Sometimes silence speaks a thousand words. The HDZ has managed that the investigation committee does not exist, so there is no silence. You may slow down, but you can't stop because examples of such splendor, politics and economic crime are still coming out. It's a good example of VUPIK. We asked the question at the moment when Andrej Plenkovic as Prime Minister was here, we asked the question of VUPIK, Andrej Plenkovic kept his mouth shut, and what was very interesting as VUPIK sold by the state of Ivica Todorovic and Agrokor 2010. Let's take it in a row. In 2010, Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic, foreign minister participates in meetings of the government's narrow cabinet, co-creats the decision, makes the decision, confirms the decision at the cabinet's sales session, VUPIK Todoric. At the same time, Foreign Ministry State Secretary is today Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, so he knows everything. At the same time, Finance Minister Martina Dalic, and then participates in tight cabinets, confirms the decision, participates, and the secretary of state in her ministry is Zdravko Maric. Today it is the ministers, the presidents of the Parliament and the Prime Minister. All we know is that Andrej Plenkovic in the Parliament is silent today instead of making things right, here's today's chance to make things right, he's silent today. Of course, everything has to match. And what does it matter? Do you know how long Ivica Todoric bought VUPIK? For 30 million kunas. You know how much damage he charged from the state, war damage after he bought the VUPIK for 30 million? 300 million. So in VUPIK, the balance sheet said that the company could charge war damage from a country of 300 million kuna, neither did Gordan Jandrokovic, as foreign minister, nor did Martina Dalic, as finance minister, think of whether war damage was lifted or not. It's up to the citizens that the evaluations didn't want, they shouldn't or forgot, but Ivica Todorovic did the job of the century. In a couple of months, the man made 270 million kunas at the expense of the state. The same authority that's abolishing your investigative commission not to find out today has been involved in these affairs. And it's not a story that the investigative committee was suspended because of the process that's happening today around Ivica Todorovic, so your attorney general said it doesn't bother you. The goal is to hide things, not to show these truths to the public. One more thing, interesting to confirm the whole VUPIK story. It is interesting that the sale was signed by the then State Secretary Kuterovac, who saw miracles, immediately afterwards became a member of the management board, or the chairman of the VUPIK administration, but then in the Agrokor concert, that is the policy. That's what he's trying to hide from the citizens today, and that's why the investigative commission is being abolished. And that is the main issue of Croatian politics. Hide, hide, cover, smile, cross your hands, everything will be fine. It's from the old system. I think it's time we face the truth because this is how we stay in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55787	Thank you. The second is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Josip Boris, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55788	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We in HDZ are still clear on the views that no one is above the law, neither is Bozo Petrov, it is not MOST, it is neither HDZ nor SDP and the laws in this country should be respected as they are written, that is the only reason why the commission has stopped working and it is not a true claim made by Mr Petrov that the commission is missing, there is no. It has stopped working, and what we heard here today certainly won't prevent that work stopover from being co-workers, MPs, that every day they can or if they want to talk about Agrokor all day long. And that's what we're gonna do, or we're probably gonna listen to it during maybe the whole next year. However, we are always careful when CSI Metkovic comes out here with certain accusations because the fact is that so far we have had to deny everything with certain documents, audio recordings, all these enormous accusations, one day they would have existed, the next day they were disappearing, and that speaks enough about the credibility of those who think that it is essentially something to call a paraintelligence leak something that should be the only meaning of Croatian politics. I don't think we're investigators in this assembly, that there are bodies that need to claim all these truths that you and your colleague Petrov were talking about, and I'm calling you if you have all the things you've said here as documentation, as part of tomorrow's possible processes that should be run by the system of presses, DORH, SCOTT, etc. to just give it to them. Let's hand it over, so that they can make a certain level of investigation and determine what's true, so that we don't be here in the assembly of those who investigate, judge and judge. I think it's clear to all of us that it's not our job. And after the moment, when you verified your statement, there was a different form in Croatia. So that's the question of the credibility of individuals, who think at some point they're the only ones who have the right to say what's true. We've already said once, we're not the source of truth and the fact is that now you're organizing yourself, inside, I'd call it a Self-fighter coalition, which should be this government every day, in a way, cooking behind the neck and accusing it of anything that's happened in the past 27 years. Because it might be good, in that you're already investigating certain truths, that you go out and tell the Croatian public, which is the minister in the government, who you were also vice president has certain tariffs. Let's say 3,000 euros to file a criminal report. It's one tariff, which came out publicly, we saw it, and maybe then we in HDZ should go on in that sense. So, who had 1,000 euros, a tariff, for a meeting, who had 3,000 euros, to raise a criminal application, so that we can talk about it in such a way as to bother or cheer up Croatian citizens. The job of Croatian parliamentary representatives or advocates is to discuss the laws, try to do maximum good for our citizens. Today we have important laws, tomorrow we have it, Thursday we have a state budget and it's a job that we'll deal with in the majority, and you continue your investigations, do what you think you should do, but I don't think that citizens will... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55789	I'm asking you not to throw it away. Now you've even got on the microphone. I mean, I'm really asking you to stick to the line. Don't wink at me, stay in line. That's all I ask of you. Let's move on. It's our third honorary colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55790	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, after counterpart Boric, need to re-inhale and return the topic. We have a real custom in Croatia to have a series of proverbs, so these proverbs say more than, that is, show a real state. So the kids, when they go to bed, they go over their heads, and they think everything they've done wrong or wrong is not going to happen. I often get the feeling that the HDZ colleagues really lie down, cover themselves on their heads, and think that when they're covered and that everything that's the subject won't happen. So we just go back, we don't have to go back far into history, we can go back to this year and see how the subject of the investigation committee started, it went in a way that when the desire to try to do everything, so that the investigation committee doesn't get there. After that, it turned into soap opera. Behind the fact that soap was growing, it turned into a circus. And it's legitimate to ask, why? For the simple reason, which when, and it taught me in politics, you need a lot, a lot of repeating some facts and then when you repeat, no matter how they are, they become the truth at one point. So we've heard so many times that this government is actually lex Agrocorr saving Agrokor. We've heard so many times that no one who's a member of this government has absolutely participated in what's-his-name. His cousin's capitalism and the creation of this mastodon we call Agrokor, and he's wrinkled like a raised dough, so he's spread that he can't go back to the bowl. But, indeed, what is a fact, the fact is that in 2010 at the time it was a subject of a wolf, the foreign minister was Mr. Jandrokovic, the finance minister was Mrs. Dalic, the state secretaries were also Mr. Plenkovic, and the secretary of state was Mr. Maric. And they knew what was going on. And no one can ask why? Why did she decide to go there in the '90s? and someone not to go from 2017 back. Just because you complained about some things to cover up. He wanted us not to discuss it. And that's the way it is. If desired, the investigative commission could have really continued to work. The investigation committee could have opened all the topics, but it didn't want to. It's on the one that tells you if you believe my words or your eyes. Now, I find it really hard to believe in someone's words, much prefer to trust my eyes with information, trust data and trust facts. The fact is that Mr. Jandrokovic was foreign minister, the fact is that Mrs. Dalic was the finance minister and the fact that I can't say that they didn't know in VUPIK. The same is the fact that the prime minister was Mr. Plenkovic and the fact is that Mr. Maric, who has obviously short memories, does not remember what was in Agrokor as state secretary and the fact that they knew. And the fact that something that was Agrokor and Agrokor I'm dividing it into two, I'm dividing this first into subgroups but the first Agrokor is Mr. Todorovic, and the second is Mr. Ramljak. Agrokor Mr. Ramljak was created by the same ones who helped Agrokor grow in a way that that spirit from the bottle could no longer return to the bottle. And we see that fairy tale, you know, when a ghost comes out of your bottle, it's hard to go back. And therefore, Parliamentarians don't have a lot of tools but they have one tool that's a word and it's a speech. And using words and using speech and using this pay phone to tell people the facts can't be taken away from us or taken away from us. So we'll keep talking, we'll keep talking about what's in Agror. But believe me, there's not a single law that we're not going to tell you what we're thinking. As we have so far, what's good we'll be for it, but what's bad, what you consciously and deliberately bring back to the state we'll talk about. You know, when you go back to the break-in, it's a short step, and we're already on that rock that's about to fall into the hole and rocking. So you won't take away our word and you won't take away our speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55791	Let's move on. The fourth is the SDP representative club and respected counterpart Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u55792	The Honorable President of the Parliament, well this morning is most interesting and the most interesting thing is that every week new evidence appears, new indications in the involvement of today's government in the Agrokor affair. The VUPIK affair where the state directly lost 300 million kuna in a ridiculous purchase sale, i.e. The sale of Agrokor for 30 million kuna, where damage was done to 300 million kunas for the state budget and all its citizens, where officials were then Finance Minister Dalic with his secretary, Secretary of State Zdravko Maric as a member of the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Jandrokovic and his Secretary of State Andrej Plenkovic show clear involvement of today's power summit in the Agrokor affair. Credit to HBOR, which last week broke out as an affair of 400 million kuna where, on the basis of the credit evaluation of the risk of exposure of the then administration in the sixth month of 2016, it was ordered... The Supervisory Board, together with ministers sitting in this government today, approved a 400 million-dollar loan to HBOR and so directly on the basis of all the warnings that this credit evaluation said caused damage of $400 million to the state budget, shows that in just two weeks with these two affairs the damage was done to Croatian citizens of 700 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's going to answer? The same actors, the same signature, the same methods Dalic, Maric, Jandrokovic, Plenkovic directly involved in this affair. And therefore, it is no wonder that today on the Committee on the Constitution where you were supported by your coalition partners you are trying to cover up the situation in Agrokor. This is like an episode from some dark times when Croatia was run by secret services. By these patterns of behavior you're trying to hide the truth about Agrokor, you're trying to push things under the carpet because your involvement in the Agrokor affair is known. And it's known and you're trying to hide it, but what's responsible is that we warn what's going on there, to warn that there's money leaving Agrokor and that people are leaving Croatia. 50,000 people have left the Republic of Croatia in just the last year, people who have gone after bread with their stomachs, people who do not think about coming back because no reform, no draft law that goes in the direction and should go towards improving the standards of people in Croatia has been adopted. In Croatia, wages must be raised urgently. For starters, minimum wage. That's what we've been suggesting for the last six months you keep refusing. In Croatia, we must resolve the issue of the contract permanently. They can't, 90% of new contracts can't be contracts indefinitely and thus end the safety, existence and possibility of planning young families and people who want to have children and start a family. In Croatia too, we must do everything we can to encourage the employment of young people. This is lagging behind today, and no proposal from this government can be seen or seen. You can do whatever you want, but you can't go as far as you want. I call on you not to hide your involvement in the Agrokor affair, not to hide the truth about Agrokor, not to flee from the commission, and not to vote on Thursday to conclude the suspension of the commission because it is true. You have de facto acknowledged the conclusion of the Constitutional Committee that you will put to the vote Thursday to abolish the commission here in the Croatian Parliament. I am very interested in which one of the MPs will raise his hand Thursday for the abolition of the Agrokor Investigation Commission, because Thursday and the abolition of the Agrokor Research Commission will be indicative of all those activities that will take place next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62219	We're moving on to the agenda now. This is - Final draft law on the EU Mobility Agency and programmes, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 131. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Rule 197 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law. Does the applicant's representative want to add an explanation of the proposal? Dear Secretary of State Matko Gluncic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62220	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed Parliaments and Parliamentarians. Therefore, the Agency for Mobility and EU Programmes was established by the Law on the EU Mobility Agency and programmes as a public institution in whose jurisdiction the implementation of the EU Education and Youth Programme, in accordance with the negotiating position under the accession negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the EU in Chapter 26. Education and culture. Since 2018, the Ministry of Science and Education and the Agency has assigned a number of new additional networks, programmes and initiatives to the competent authorities, and therefore we need to pass this new law that will be attached to these new programmes that the Agency has received. At the end of the previous generation of the EU programme, the agency became the ERASMUS+ National Agency for the ERASMUS+ programme in January 2014, which is fundamentally important for the mobility of our scientists and students, the new EU programme in the field of education, youth training and sports. In addition, since January 2014, the Agency shall establish a major part of the national support for the structure for the new Horizon 2020 Framework Programme and shall receive as much as 17 of the 23 thematic areas in this programme as possible. In addition to those key extensions, the Agency has given the Agency the responsibility to carry out operational implementation of the Regional High Education Mobility Programme, the famous CEPUS, as well as the operational implementation of bilateral agreements on higher education cooperation and promotion of higher education abroad. The Agency is also obliged to work to strengthen and upgrade its core activities using the European Social Fund, so that the operational programme provides for an effective human potential project to be implemented by the Ministry of Science in the responsibility of the Agency itself. So the basic issues that are being regulated by this law are the extension of the activity description due to all the new programmes received by the agency in its jurisdiction, but also the redefining of the body and body of the agency according to the new generation of the EU programme and other international programmes now implemented by the Agency. In addition, given that the Agency is credited with the European Commission for decentralised implementation of the ERASMUS Plus programme, it is necessary to coordinate with the ERASMUS+ Regulation. Finally, the implementation of this law does not require any additional financial resources in the state budget, given that the Agency’s resources for the work and implementation of the programme within the meaning of the responsibility of the Agency are planned in the national budget for 2017 and in the projections for 2018 and 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62221	Thank you, too. We have one replica, dear colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62222	Your Honor, Secretary of State. We also had this debate on the committee, so the law states that the Agency appoints a director, deputy director and four assistants, which I believe is extremely important in this agency for withdrawing funds from the EU and will be even more important in view of the European Social Fund, there are four assistants in the structure of managing an extremely large amount and cannot be taken away from the impression that it serves only to make individual arrests in office regardless of which they are likely to be appointed from members or employees of the agency themselves. The agency has about 80 employees, so the management structure will be around 7.8% of the total number of employees. I believe that in the first row it was not necessary to define the number of assistants with the law itself but rather to define it by means of an agency act, which is the statute and I see no reason to appoint so many assistants because it costs, and on the other hand, I am not sure that it will ensure better management of the agency itself. What the agency needs, the agency needs is a different management in a way that has a sectoral division that has more sectors, that has sectoral chiefs and that these are the people who will then ensure that the agency itself is good and that only the management of the funds that come from the EU is good. I'm sorry that one good agency with this way is put under the public's bat because in any case it's five people in the management structure that I don't think it takes so many, that it could be done with a smaller number of people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62223	You want a reply to the replica, pal Gluncic? Nothing. Okay. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then we'll move on to the debate. The first is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62224	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, respected directors of the EU Mobility Agency and programmes, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Mobility and Programmes of the EU and the Final Proposal for the Law as it has supported steps in some way in the proposed law and in the first reading. We feel good that the agency is moving in step with time, that the agency is fully open to the public and that it works quite transparently and that it is fully fulfilling its purpose, means that all of that legally prescribed scope of activity that has been since 2007 seems to have been prescribed to me in the agency itself, which is to withdraw funds from EU funds, participate in other international programmes concerning education, youth training and sport sciences, and has actually fulfilled its purpose. Fortunately, if all agencies had such effects as the Mobility and Programmes Agency and the EU, I believe that in that case, and the report by the Republic of Croatia on the skills and performance of the withdrawal of financial resources that are available to us now that we are a full member of the EU, it would look much better, not in the very percentage, I think, but it would be much better for Croatian society. What brings the new bill proposal as well as the State Secretary in the introduction itself, it is an increase in the scope of jobs, so some programs while we were in that pre-accession period, I might say, they've run out of time, or they're out, new generations of programmes are coming, and we need to create legal conditions for the agency to continue to do their job in accordance with the law. With this in mind, it is necessary to reorganise the work of the agency itself, if you want to reshuffle, the fact is that so far the foundations of the old law are still valid but the old law that we are changing, it seems to me that 17 departments have said to me by Mrs. Director at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, but that these committees did not actually have their superiors but were directly subordinated to them, or were directly seconded to them by the Director herself, that is something that is unusual in the practice of any system organisation. It significantly slows down the process, and I think this is one logical path. We can now discuss here whether it is necessary for the first assistants or associates at that level of micro management to be called chiefs or assistants, we can discuss whether 4 assistants are too or too small, but if the agency continues to work at such a pace, further improve its work, I think that any pay exemption for people who will have a little more pay and will not be new employment, but rather people will be appointed as assistants as predicting the law that is already in the system and doing their job, I think it will be justified to make such changes to the law. We have different practices if we take just the Ministry of Science and Education, so we have the Agency for Mobility and EU programmes, we have the CARnet, we have the Agency for Science and Higher Education, we have the Agency for Professional Education, adult education and the Education and Education Agency. There are different practices, somewhere we have assistants and commissioners, in some agencies we have two assistants, in Carnet as many as 6 assistants, so I think that people who propose legal solutions know best what is what their obstacles are in some kind of work and what would be optimal solutions to successfully jump over these obstacles. This does not necessarily mean that all four assistants will have to be appointed immediately, it is not even foreseen but this law is passed, it is not meant to change for a year and again that 2 years. The law was done in a way to look at 5 to 10 years in advance, I will dare say and open the space for this number of assistants if they spread in a clear regional sense that we had the opportunity to hear on the committee itself, then that argument holds water. If the law has been approached in a way that is done in the long term, not to be thought through changes and complemented constantly in the Assembly because such laws do not often guarantee the simple stability of the system, a framework in which it can be normally worked and fully committed to its work and not every year for 6 months in the process of amending the law. What we also welcome and we said this in the debate in the first reading is the fact that the conditions for the selection of directors, assistant directors and members of the board themselves have been slightly met. In practice in the Agency's history, it has been shown that very often the meetings of the Governing Council could not normally be maintained, which also slowed down the decision making of certain decisions which were of serious concern to the Agency precisely because there was no quorum. I will not enter as well as for the first time whether this is an irresponsibility of the members themselves or something other than Wednesday, I think it is good that we reduce the number of members of the board of directors, they will be much more operational, I believe and more constructive, that they will not block in any way the work of the agency by not meeting or by the inability to hold a session because of the lack of quorum, and I think that these conditions that are prescribed are in fact that, with some formal education that has yet been required in these bodies and for the assistant directors of the board of directors if I am not mistaken, especially for the assistants, we are looking for persons who have very much experience in this area is something that can only contribute to a better and more successful work of the agency. I'm going to stop here, these are the key changes to the law itself, we support them, we want the agency to keep working on the way she's been working so far. It is indeed a bright example not only in Croatia but also in the EU. It is extremely important that we offer society in a free way the opportunity to benefit from all the resources available and to improve the parts of the society that we have here, we have had opportunities and just before in our meetings to listen to from some colleagues about which they are extremely important to us, these are young people, that is education, that is training, that is science, if you will sport. When we do not already have enough resources in the Croatian budget for the education system alone, with a system of science, then it is good to make additional efforts to take absolutely everything that EU membership offers us and to help the system of education, young people and society as a whole through exchanges, here ERASMUS+1 is one of the key programmes that is extremely important for young people, and also for scientists and people in the lower-level education sector, to enable them to acquire international experiences, absorb examples of good practice, and then implement themselves in our own country. We strongly support this bill and believe that here as a Croatian Parliament we will contribute to creating a framework that will only serve to ensure that the agency works equally successfully if not better than so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62225	Thank you. We have one replica, dear colleague Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62226	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of the Voice, I'm glad we're getting along a lot with the agency. However, we are going back to that old debate about investing in budgets whether it is enough or not. We can agree that there is always more to be invested in science and education, but I would repeat some facts, i.e. some comparisons between the draft budget for 2018 and the implementation of the 2015 budget. That was the last year of your government's term of office. So we have an increase in the regular activity of the scientific institutes 12%, for the Croatian Foundation for Science 20%, for contractual financing of scientific activities 35%, and for PhDs and post-doctorships, and it is always pointed out that we should invest in young people 162%. So more than two-and-a-half times more investment from the budget for PhDs and post-doctorship than it was in 2015. I think that shows us that it's going in a positive direction. One thing that I owe you from a previous debate concerning scientific recruits where you mention how they cut the funds for them scientific money as a category no longer exists. So the scientific money that's involved is the ones that finish their doctorates and get out of the system or become docents, etc. etc. And that's why that item is shrinking and that's logical. But what is being invested and is increasing are categories of doctoral and post-doctoral and, moreover, what this government ensures is that for the first time after a good six, seven years, it will allow the reproduction of scientific personnel in terms of a minimum of up to 250 new PhDs in the system, that the system can be restored at least to increase, even if those going into retirement are compensated. And what I would particularly like to point out is that exactly the largest drought in hiring new recruits, PhDs, etc., young scientists was between 2012 and 2015. That's when virtually almost total drought was created. So I think that should be pointed out when we're talking about the context of actually the whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62227	Replication response, colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62228	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, the fact is that there is a lot more resources in the state budget today, the budget is richer than it was three, four years ago, and that's a fact. The fact is also that despite Croatia's better performance, which is seen by the budget, it boasts the prime minister and it's all right and I'm glad that we're doing better. The fact that the Ministry of Science, education is one of the biggest losers when we look at all the ministries. Most of the budget for 2018 was given to the Ministry of Defence, Defence, Foreign and European Affairs, and there at the bottom of the scale among the three ministries that received the least funding in the increase compared to last year are unfortunately the Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Interior. Secondly, according to the budget that was planned and adopted here when we talk about new and next year will learn from old, outdated programmes. The students will continue to be evaluated, followed, evaluated in the same way. We're not going to introduce new technologies, new teaching methods. Unfortunately, we will not succeed in introducing complete curricula reform into Croatian schools. The only thing he's going to get are some schools, only a part of them will be new computers. I just hope you're not planning on installing those computers into schools like the one in Chazma where the ceiling collapsed the other day, because that's what I really don't think I'm gonna say funny, actually that's not sad would be funny. The computers are beautiful, it's all wonderful, it's ideal. However, I think that our students and our parents care a lot more about some other type of need for drumming facts, the fact that when they finish the education system they don't feel ready for the labour market, and even in life they don't have financial literacy. So you come to the bank, you borrow, you don't even know what you're signing, because the education system doesn't give them the basics that would prepare them for life. And that's not in this budget, unfortunately. We can now discuss whether a million kunas went here more, a million kunas less. The fact is, not even next year, the pains most tormented by students and parents It won't go away and that's what makes me... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62229	Thank you. Let's move on with the debates. Now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club and respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62230	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, Madam Director of the Mobility Agency and the European Union Programmes. Here, as has already been said before us, the Final Proposal for the Law on the EU Mobility and Programmes Agency, which discussed and the majority of votes, was adopted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture at its 19th session this morning, with a view to further improving the quality of this final proposal, will also be submitted by a number of amendments. I will take advantage of this opportunity and just once again remind myself that the Agency for Mobility and EU Programmes is set up by the 2007 Agency Act as a public institution in whose jurisdiction is the implementation of the EU programme within the then accession negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the EU in Chapter 56 with the purpose of, therefore, the management of EU programmes, which included, of course, the launch of public tendering, information and consultation of potential applicants, the preparation of the tender documentation itself, along with, of course, formal criteria and the assessment of quality, the application of contracts and approved projects, and then the follow-up, consultation and supervision of the agreed financial resources. Of course, according to the law at the time, the Agency's activities include other EU programmes within the competence of the Ministry of Science and Education, such as those relating to the mobility of researchers in the European Research Area, including the installation of the EUROPSS component in the education system of the Republic of Croatia, the establishment of international joint graduate studies and a number of other programmes. And I need to remind here that during 2009 and 2010, the Agency has started to conduct pilot tenders for the participation of individuals, and then institutions and organisations in the Programme for Lifelong Education and then the Youth at Work programme and during this preparatory phase during 2009 and 2010 just through the Agency's pre-accession funds, 510 projects totalling 2 million and 800 000 euros have been funded from those pre-accession funds. At that time, 2,400 individuals who were directly involved in the programmes participated in international cooperation and mobility activities. Furthermore, in 2011 to 2013, the number of projects increased to 1579, as well as the number of funds withdrawn to 26 million 980 thousand euros and of course the number of individual participations around 22,700 individual participants. Of course, in early 2014 if we remember, we will know that the implementation of the new generation ERASMUS+ programme for education, youth training and sports has started. Here's the other day, right, we celebrated the anniversary of ERASMUS programme and, of course, during all these years until 2017, the agency's activity is constantly expanding, but also withdrawing more and more funds from the EU. Of course, there has been a continuous expansion of the agency's activities since 2007 until the end of today. In doing so, we can notice the growth and contracted and funded projects and the funds withdrawn and what is very important as the ultimate objective of the number of individuals specifically involved in mobility programmes and international cooperation. And I would just like to remind you that it is precisely for the sake of harmonising with the situation that we have today 2017 compared to ten years before the Agency Act was passed, so it was necessary to adopt these amendments and additions, to update the existing Agency Act which will then regulate both the Agency's activity and the Agency's competence over new EU programmes in the fields of science, education, youth and sports training, etc. You will see that in the final draft law, the Agency's activity, its competence, is regulated in Article 5 of the final proposal. Of course, in line with the expansion of the Agency's activities, it was also necessary to bring its funding sources in line with the real situation, with the state budget being the source of the EU funding provided to the Agency with financial resources. All of this is regulated in Article 6 of the final draft law. Of course, in accordance with the expansion of the Agency's activities, the structure and bodies of the Agency have been redefined to ensure an adequate and effective organisational structure. And what is very important, clearly differentiated the four main areas of activity of the agencies, it is an area of education, training and sport, then an area of youth and a very important area of science. And this issue is regulated in articles 7 to 13 of the final bill. I will also remind you that this final draft of the law is in line with EU regulations concerning the European Erasmus+ and Horizon 2020 programmes, all of this is regulated in Article 5(1) of the final proposal of the law. And of course, the Final Proposal of the Act on the EU Agency for Mobility and Programmes also contains a very important legal framework for development needs related to strengthening and upgrading the Agency's own activities to projects financed from EU funds, as well as the effective integration of existing and future programmes in the field of education, youth training, sport and science, as regulated in Articles 5, in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. of the final proposal of the law. What makes the difference between the draft law in the first reading and the final proposal refers to the proposals accepted by the applicant in the final draft of the law, and they refer to Article 1 in which the two paragraphs are united in a non-technical sense in one. Article 9(3), following which paragraph 4 has been amended and the provision set out in this Article itself, which otherwise concerns the regulation of the prohibition of administrative oversight of the work of the Agency, which has been appointed by the Ministry of Science and Education for the purpose of preventing conflicts of interest, remains present in the law, but in the final proposal, it has been transferred to Article 14 as its current paragraph 4. The difference between the first reading and the first reading is the strict conditions for selecting a deputy and assistant director from four to seven years of work experience as regulated in Article 12(2). It also extended the time limit for the alignment of the Agency's internal acts with the law proposed from 60 to 90 days from the entry into force of this law and was also regulated in Article 19(2) of the final draft law. It has already been noted that the implementation of this law will not require any major additional funding in the state budget. The Agency’s working resources are envisaged and planned in the state budget in the division relating to the Ministry of Science and Education for 2018. And, of course, on the basis of all that has been said so far and respecting all the discussions carried out both on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and individually, so the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Final Proposal of the Law on the EU Mobility and Programmes Agency and, of course, the Agency's directors want further success in the work and, of course, the successful implementation of the funds from EU funds with as many individual, of course, users as the ultimate goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62231	Thank you. One is a replica this time, a respected colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bedekovic, you have mentioned in your presentation a number of users who have succeeded in benefiting from EU funds through the EU Mobility and Programmes Agency, that is exactly how I would say a respectable information especially when we know that the work of this Agency is indirectly, and even directly affecting where we are unfortunately, Croatia is at the beginning, if we are talking about some parameters in which we are measured from the EU in the education system, then we are the worst in lifelong learning. And that's the kind of thing that we have to deal with, and it's extremely important that the work of this agency contributes to that, too. Because it actually gives information about everything that's going on in that space, means where you can withdraw funds and citizens very often don't know who you'd turn to to get that information, and this is a good thing that they actually have free access to, that you as interested citizens can get all the information there and not just that, you can rely on the Agency because it actually implements the other part of the story, write down and choose projects. And this when you talk, especially about these individual applicants, or consumers, is an extremely important piece of information, and it can help us to improve in the long term in that part of life's learning. And my colleague Velligay pulled data for the past, first reading, where a study of the satisfaction of the user was carried out by the Agency's work. And that's amazing, the lowest score, by various parameters from 4.3 to 4.59. And it is very rare that users themselves positively assess the work of a public, state-owned public institution in such a way. And that's something that, I don't know if these research is conducted in other agencies but it's a good form of external evaluation of work because citizens say that it's something that they need to be a service, it fills their role as a service. And I think it's very good here, I'm sorry, I missed the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62233	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62234	Well, I'm glad you've seen this and mentioned it and pointed out. In fact, mobility is one of the essential principles of the EU in general and, of course, as a member of the EU, in this sense, we must, in every respect, encourage and provide an opportunity, and then provide financial support to the individual for the development of their own capacities in terms of, therefore, and of course on the principles of lifelong learning. And what is very important, and I, among other things, and in my debate, emphasized, it is important to invest immeasurably in people, in people through these programs, directly invest in a man, in a young man, who, through different programs, is able to spread his perspectives and, on the basis of these experiences, truly become a lifelong student, a lifelong student who therefore builds on these foundations, so also expands his horizons further. So, I think the last number is the one I have some 10 grand and some individual users for '14 and '15, now it's probably grown to a lot, a lot. And I think it's very important. Thank you very much for this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62235	Thank you, too. We move on to the debate, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62236	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director. On behalf of the HSS Club, we will support the adoption of the Law on the Agency for Mobility and EU programmes. We in the Republic of Croatia have about 200 agencies and we rightly wonder if we need them all, if they all justified existence through their work and through the activities that have been done. And here's proof that not everything is needed is that one of these days we're shutting down because she hasn't done a single project she was in charge of. This Agency is certainly an important tool for the Republic of Croatia, our science and our students and students to acquire knowledge and skills, to share knowledge and experience with their EU colleagues. And certainly it is to welcome the existence of this agency, and here we support it with a figure that in the last 8 years more than 40,000 professors, scientists, students and students have gone through various programs through this agency, which is certainly to greet. When it comes to the Agency itself, the Act on the Agency, colleagues have already said that the number of people needed is questionable, we have heard that 80 employees, that there are both directors and 4 assistants that these, these funds and this way of management may be more rationally used. And what we are interested in and ask the answer why all agencies must or most of them have headquarters in the city of Zagreb, why couldn't some of them dislocate outside the city of Zagreb, or if they can't already do the Agency itself, why aren't certain sectors or sections dislocated throughout the Republic of Croatia? For example, this Law states that it is necessary to redefine the structure of the Agency's body in order to ensure the appropriate organisational structure and composition of the Governing Council and to clearly distinguish three main areas of activity. One education and training and sport, 2 areas of youth, 3 sciences as project implementation, as well as projects from the EU programme and projects from the EU structural instruments. Here is why we are not one of those three sectors, for example for young people, dislocated in Slavonia or this Science Department in Gospić or Smiljan, to show that we are interested above all in developing these areas and that young people and scientists from these areas are involved in these programmes. There is and certainly an interest in these areas for inclusion in these programmes. For example, a dozen employees of the Slavonski Brod Economic and Birotechnic School went to London. Ten students from the Nova Gradiška Industrial and Industrious School went to Hungary. A month ago 32 students from Poland, Germany, Finland, Greece and the Czech Republic were in Novi Gradiška. Congratulations to those schools for getting involved in these programs. However, from these experiences, I want to convey some of the problems that the founders first and foremost, and these are regional self-governments, cities, often have to co-finance such projects. Why they don't have enough resources, so the question is how does that part get solved? And also students who went through different programmes outside the Republic of Croatia have often stressed that they are not sufficient funds for the high cost of living they have in these European countries. So here's the question whether the agency, whether it's the ministry or through projects will be able to solve 100 percent of the funding so as not to have the costs of our students or scientists due to the high cost of living outside the Republic of Croatia. I would also stress that what we have done in the Republic of Croatia that these skills that our scientists or students acquire outside the Republic of Croatia are different certificates for all educations that have passed in the Republic of Croatia. Often, these qualifications are not some priority in employment, so we will list only one example of a student who ended up in the Republic of Croatia, she went to professional training in Norway. There she gained additional knowledge and qualifications and experience from the educational system of Scandinavian states and nowhere in the Republic of Croatia could she get a job but here she remained in Norway because they offered her both work and additional language learning and further education. So the question is whether in this way through these projects we are essentially stimulating our young people to be educated and to stay working outside the EU or whether we aim to return them and to integrate their skills into education, education and then tomorrow and the economy of Slavonia, Like and all of our parts. So I think we have to work on this, and on the other hand from the experiences of students who were in Croatia, there has often been an objection that, apart from the Faculty of Economics from Zagreb, there are often not enough professors who are interested in including in this programme, there are no lecturers who have been trained to do so, that students could not take exams because they did not have all the literature and that this reduces the interest of foreign students and students to come to the Republic. So here I wonder how the agency and the ministry thinks of these shortcomings and the observed problems with the goal of, of course, getting as many of our scientific institutions, primary and secondary schools involved in the programmes as possible, that as many of our young people can acquire knowledge and skills as possible, and on the other hand to be interesting and here are scientists, students and students from other countries to come, get to know Croatia and to build a better way with us our young people in the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62237	Here's the exhibit that caused two replicas. The first is a respected colleague of Bedekovic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62238	Here is my colleague Vlaović, however, I have only the need to share the experience, so you have noted that the experiences and it seems to me that you have referred to our part, so Eastern Slavonia, these Slavonian schools, the experiences of students and students who were on ERASMUS exchanges say that they did not receive sufficient financial resources during their stay at the exchange, that this required co-financing from the local community. Well, I'd like to share with you a positive experience. So we have, in my institution from which I have come to the Parliament in the last few years, had very successful outgoing and incoming mobility both of our students to some other high school and back. And I didn't have any situation where students or parents, so they complained about insufficient financial resources. In fact, when a student leaves, the foreign country is exchanged according to the criteria to obtain the amount of financial resources it is sufficient for a certain period in accordance with the standard of economic, therefore to the country of life to which he is going. For different countries, therefore, there are different financial resources relative to cost or cost, so life depends on the student in which the funds will be allocated. He wants to sleep, he wants to settle in luxury, he wants to be luxurious, or he'll be moderate, so he can end up missing money, so he spends money. So then we get into a situation where students have ugly experiences and say they didn't have enough. I'd say somehow that they're getting optimal funding. Now it's on them in the way they're assigned, and these are the competences they acquire, and these are the skills we have to teach them at that stage when we're preparing them to go to ERASMUS exchange. Here are some of the experiences.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62239	Reply to the replica of his colleague Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62240	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague I agree with you that there are different experiences of what everyone should once again praise that more than 40,000 scientists, students, professors, students have gone through different programs through this agency and that they should certainly continue with these activities and bring them closer to both East Slavonia and Face and Podravina and all of our regions. And the fact is that in some projects earlier, regional self-government as founder should have co-financed part of these projects of schools. And here I stressed that there is a problem, and this individual experience of individual students I agree with you should consider, see how justified the objections are. And of course, the following projects correctly project costs and all that is acceptable cost to finance it through the project, and whoever wants above standard to have to invest a little bit in their own acquisitions of knowledge and skills because tomorrow they will benefit from it in their professional life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62241	We have another replica, dear colleague of the Weeleys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62242	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a colleague of Vlaovic in your debate you said well what was actually concluded that at least more of these agencies in the Republic of Croatia are unfortunately the large majority of them in an extremely poor voice, but in a bad voice are actually due to the poor results they achieve. This is one bright example in which other agencies should definitely be seen, one example that has been well teamed up from the very beginning, means well-managed, professionally and then not the results that we have actually heard here from the use of budgets of more than 98%, from the rating that I consider to be the greatest recognition for work because people always really appreciate when you give them something and they will know that trust you back. So here, on this side full support further in the work, I want even more really good projects for our primarily young people who will find opportunities through these programmes of the agency to school in other EU members, to gain some new experiences that will help us create Croatia, in fact to make economic progress, but in one creation of Croatia that will be better, which will be more tolerated, at this point we are very much short of it, and I hope that, in fact, these young people will still bring a breath of certain changes that we need. Just keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62243	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62244	Thank you, Mr. President. I said in my statement that it is doubtful that all 200 agencies are needed in the Republic of Croatia, and there have often been debates, and also here in the Parliament, that one business review will be made, and that there will be savings in this sector, and that perhaps we in the HSS think that it is certainly not justified that we have 200 different agencies, especially when we have seen from some reports that they have been paid more than the ministries or some state bodies, that the funds have also been spent irrationally, and here is the latest information on this agency that we have abolished, that they have not implemented any projects. Of course, this Mobility Agency has not been seen in such a way of doing business, on the contrary, that it has made a huge contribution to education, the application of knowledge and skills and the transfer of these skills to our students and students and scientists and that it should continue. And what we have proposed and I think it would be rational to think about, however, that because of the more quality flow of information, part of these sectors are dislocated, that not all of Zagreb can be, that one part can be for young people in Slavonia, for science in Gospić and thus contribute more evenly to the development of the Republic of Croatia, in this direction I think there is room for the development of this agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62245	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, first in line is a respected colleague of Gordan Maras. Since he is not there, he loses his right to debate and we move on to another representative, it is a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62246	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, so today we have a law here before us regarding the EU Mobility Agency and programmes. For the past 10 years, the Agency has outgrown the organisational framework set by the 2007 law and it is logical that, thanks to its work and programmes, it must amend the law which determines its structure. Otherwise, it's interesting so far we've had topics of science and human potential in the late evening, when the assembly was empty and then we said that at least these quality proposals and quality discussions on topics that are important in life, there will be more people unfortunately see that it's not really true. When we have topics that can be discussed about the good work of a state agency, without ideology, party membership, there is no interest in our assembly, you can see by the number of registered clubs and parliamentary representatives and that's not good. What I want in my brief discussion is to repeat what most speakers have said is done to a quality agency. The agency that shows how Croatia should function today in this modern Europe because education, sport, science that covers the agency with their programmes, do not know the borders, and it is precisely through education, science, sport that we from Croatia can be equal members of a different modern Europe. We've heard about the programs that are covered by this agency, from ERASMUS+, CEPUS, OBLIGATION, ISF, which should, of course, be reminded today, even though I say, I regret that there are no more MPs, that the agency marked its 10 years, and marked the 30 years of ERASMUS. ERASMUS is the biggest programme for education, youth training and sport. In Europe, colleagues and colleagues have gone through the programme, which is worth a prominent, 9 million participants. The 9 million participants who crossed Europe, visited large and small countries, and in this way they are actually a new generation of Europeans. A new generation of Europeans who see Europe based on knowledge, innovation, entrepreneurship, tolerance and multiculturalism. I think it's the best thing this programme can offer, I'm glad that there were 40,000 citizens of Croatia from 3,000 and through 2,000 programmes. What I want to say at the very end is that the agency used 99% of the resources available to talk about its success and many could learn how this job is done. No colleagues, a colleague leaving who said it would be good to maybe dislocate the agency. You wouldn't do that, in this case is actually one... Access, it is not necessary to dislocate this agency but to dislocate as much of the benefits of the programme as possible offered by the Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for this agency can stay in Zagreb but all others living in every part of Croatia have the opportunity to report on these programmes and use them and thus contribute to the development of Croatia every part of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62247	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. We're moving on to a further debate, dear colleague Sanja Putica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62248	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Today, on the 10th anniversary of the draft EU Mobility and Programmes Agency, we have before us the amendment and addition of this law, which is of course needed by the Agency to improve its work, to move forward with European policy and to bring it into line with the Croatian legislative framework. In any case, this agency needs to be congratulated today and the 30th birthday of ERASMUS of an extremely significant programme implemented in the Croatian education system, which generally brings new experiences to Croatian society from EU countries' education systems. The strong financial potential seen after the withdrawal of funds within this agency and the amendment of today's law can be only one good guide to the Ministry of Science and Education within which this agency is located, to consider changes to the legislative framework and amendments to the laws and additions to other agencies, so that they can also improve their work and, all together, by improving this legislative framework, could be one useful wheel in implementing the full curricula reform. In any case, the Agency for Mobility and EU Programmes is one of the brighter examples of action within the Ministry of Science and Education, and I am not sure that any change to the head of the ministry requires changing the authority in which this agency is located. I don't think it's good to change sometimes, not only is it normal for people to change, but we're aware that we're in politics, but somehow the administrations should keep track of the work of certain agencies in order to make it more quality and to make the improvement within that system a better quality. What should also be highlighted as the possibility of stepping up and improving the work of agencies, it is possible to intensify the work on the ground, a little more intensive and better perhaps working with universities, especially here I mean smaller universities and more intensive exchange of teachers, professors and students at smaller universities, therefore not only those we like to call large universities. The withdrawal of additional funds from EU funds, an open and large and hugely significant European Social Fund, which is also within this agency, the implementation of the Science and Education Strategy, youth policies within the EU are only part of the information monitored by this agency. But the issue of amending and supplementing the law on other agencies in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science and Education opens. As part of the Agency's activities, it is also extremely important to highlight the fact that it monitors and improves lifelong learning that I would say in Croatia is still too little of the potential and potential for individual progress as well as society as a whole. The work of the agency and this new law, or new amendments and amendments to the law, should certainly be supported, but in the future I would say that I might react to its amendments in relation to the Committee before. When amending laws without intensifying the work of all bodies of institutions within the Ministry of Science and Education, of course it will be very difficult to implement in full the full intensity of full curricula reform, so in this sense it should be said that foreign European experiences that come through the mobility programme of this agency, as well as the benefits of European funds, are extremely needed by the Croatian education system in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62249	Thank you. We're going to the next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol. Excuse me, there was a replica, a respected colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62250	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Putica, with most of what you've said or with everything you've said, I just have one question I'm a little vague. You said it would be good if inside the ministry didn't change the intelligence on the agency, so you'd just ask for an explanation of what you were thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62251	Since I'm no longer in the ministry, I can't answer you directly. But otherwise, it is good for certain agencies or certain institutions to be in the jurisdiction of one and the same administrations, of course, so that they can be better monitored for what has not happened now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62252	Now let's move on and now you're up to a respected fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62253	Thank you very much. So here's something that I remained in debt to my colleague, the Voicer, who was talking about raising the science budget to not increase enough. So if we compare again 2018-2015, the total budget of the Republic of Croatia has increased by 12.39% and now that you compare that budget for PhDs and post-doctors has increased by 162% for the contractual financing of scientific activities 36% and the Fund for Science 20%, I think you can't say that this increase is less than the total increase in the budget and that it only goes by some momentum. Now, as far as the discussions and questions of the agency are concerned, so far they've mostly talked about education, ERASMUS, etc., I'm going to say something about science because I think that segment of the Agency's activities is extremely important. In this sense, I would first stress one difference that is often not understood, which is the difference between eu programmes and eu funds. So eu funds, the European Structural Funds are primarily intended for those countries that are below certain levels of GDP per capita and, in this sense, exclusively intended for them and there are certain quotas for Croatia that the state can use or not. Where the agency plays the same important role, which is mentioned more rarely, these are EU programmes which are competent. They are competitive in the sense that, for example, Croatian universities, Croatian institutes, Croatian institutions generally compete with the strongest institutions from Great Britain, France, Germany etc. The most important such programme is Horizon 2020 and Horizon 2020 respectively. These programs are rarely mentioned and are very important for science especially for this best, best-quality science because they are just meant for such a thing. What is Croatia's position? Where is Croatia in this story? Croatia's success as regards the percentages of applications or accepted applications is around 11%, so that is an average of approximately Central Europe, but the fact is that we are lagging behind for Western European countries. What's the reason for that? Some reasons are external and some are internal. So external reasons that are the very application procedure, which is important to highlight much stronger adapted to those countries and large institutions such as Oxford, Cambridge, etc. First for major projects, so those who have a larger amount of money and larger resources that they can allocate for something is a much greater chance of getting some projects because the projects are so designed. And also what's called the old boys club means where the advantage is on the informal level and they receive exactly those institutions that have long been designated by the network, meaning people with evaluation commissions etc. In this sense, Croatia cannot do much directly, but what has begun to work on, at least from the beginning of this year at the Ministry of Science, it has begun to work much more on this particular lobbying activity. So that's where the agency's role is very important. It means that our national contact, points and our members of the programme committee are going to meetings, to get national views, to know what the state's position is in general according to certain initiatives from the European level and that Croatia can define its position. I think that's where the progress started and I see the role of the agency as very important and I'm very glad. The second reason that we have, the second reason for the weak, relatively weak withdrawal of funds from the horizon, is precisely, in fact, small motivations, in fact very often poor information from our institutions, scientists about the possibilities that exist. Let's say, especially if we look at the area of socially humanistic sciences, they're often perceived, something that can't be competitive, competitive at international level, and that's why people are simple, people our scientists and institutions are destimulated to apply. And if you look at how much funds are allocated to such programs, such projects, you can see that there's a lot of room for it. What are the ministry and the agency doing about it? First, I would like to highlight some of the measures that the ministry has taken, which I think are very important, in order to facilitate and stimulate our scientists to apply to these European projects... So the provovo is a means and synergy, so one thing that's been done a lot, and that's a big subject of the EU, so that they can combine funds from structural funds with funds from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The example for this is a very good example I think is Timing, who got FER in Zagreb, which is at 15m euros that they got from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] through the Ministry, we have provided 20m euros in additional from the European Regional Development Fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how would those segments that can't be financed from... could be financed from structural funds and I think it is a good policy and way to increase the usability of both structural funds and resources from Horizon 20. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He would also point out one more thing, and we mentioned that when it was a debate on the budget, if we had secured a special item, of about a million euros, 7 million kunas just to stimulate the transition... In particular, they mean, those institutions, those projects that went through the first phase of the application, which may not have been given the project because of great competence, and apparently very high quality, will get money, get some funding from the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because this is how the state and the ministry stimulate the top science that Croatia needs. And the third project... means a sequel to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] as defined by the European Commission, again for those top projects that could not be obtained, for example for the European Research Council, which could not receive European funding, the project is being prepared to withdraw these funds from the European Social Fund so that those who have passed a certain threshold and failed to obtain the project can again be financed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what you would point out here is that one strategic change has been made in relation to maybe before. So there may not be a contaminant, which has often been spoken before, but is now going to target those parts of science, the scientific system, which are the best, best quality and can be competitors at European level. And as for the agency itself, I agree that she's doing a great job, you'd only have two suggestions for certain possible improvements. First of all, what I mentioned, I think that in addition to financial resources and motivation for applications, it is also necessary to take a stronger step in terms of information campaigns, in order for our scientists to get all the information about how, about the possibility of applying, but also the procedure, how to apply. It means what I, which I believe, should provide a particular service in writing projects, a reference to which the project, based on which funds, can be better obtained, is precisely so that our scientists, who may not be used to doing so, can be helped on this point, so that they can compete more easily at European level. And finally, what you would also welcome, that is, what would point out as important, is that I think it is necessary to increase coordination with the Ministry of Science and Education. I think the ministry, especially in the first half of this year while I was there, if I may say so, has made quite a step towards having regular meetings with both the agency and our national contact points, our members on the programming committees. And I hope that's how it keeps going. Because an agency without a ministry and a ministry without an agency, I can't actually do that job, which I think is getting better and better, so here's the thing, just to consider it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62254	We have one replica again, dear colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62255	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Sokol, I don't know if it's some kind of avant-garde you've been meeting with the representatives of the agency, we normally had the coordination of the education and education administration, which was responsible for some agencies, on a regular, actually level, especially at the time when operational programmes for competitiveness and cohesion and effective human potency were created. In fact, it was impossible to work, plan a budget, and not even form operational programs without all of us sitting at the same table. So, not just an assistant-resistant meeting with one agency at a time, but actually co-ordination and all of the agencies, each other, it's the first, second, look, we're going back to the budget now and now you're constantly, I'm playing ping pong. I say it's not enough, you say you increased, well, okay, it's an increase. The increase is, but I say again when we look at other increases, if you want in other ministries, and also in the Ministry of Science and Education itself within individual segments. I don't think this is available. If you want it, it's not even proportional to the growth of the budget itself. And that's not fair. And it's not fair, according to the education and science system. And I think you and I can agree here. No matter what we defend the various political parties in this House, no matter what we may have, some completely different visions, development visions, concepts, perhaps in some part of the education system, but neither you nor I, who come from the education system, even if we have different rages, can and should not be satisfied with what any government has invested or invested in the education and science system so far. Because to be satisfied, if we were satisfied, then our investment in science wouldn't be there again at the beginning of below 1% of me, let's just say that the funding for students of less socio-economic status has been reduced. I don't know what's causing it. Yes, they are, in the 2018 budget. And third, no less important,... I've shown here that it's not good to cut funds to invest in the scientific centres of excellence in humanities and I'm glad that here you are, after that amendment you formulated, I'm going to support it regardless of what the HDZ amendment is, I think it's a good amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62256	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62257	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, Glasovac, I don't know about your administration, I was in charge of the Science and Technology Administration, so I can get that information that we received from our scientists from the programming committees who complained that they were almost never contacted and what kind of meetings they were maybe once in six months. So I'm talking about that segment I've been working on, and I think that activity is getting a lot more intense now. Now, as for the increase and the reduction, I would not now bid where it should be increased, where it should be reduced, but what I have shown is that in strategic segments, the most important thing is investment in young people is the highest quality, PhDs, post-doctorates, an increase of 3 times the total budget increase. So it's not proportional. It's three times bigger than a budget increase. So exactly the things that are most important and where, if I may say, your government has least invested, so the biggest drought of getting new recruits and doctors into the system is precisely between 2012 and 2015, these are the facts, unfortunately, we can't get away from that. As for students of weaker socio-economic status, the national component may have fallen somewhat but have been more than tripled even more than that, funds from the European Social Fund. And the number of these scholarships is tripled compared to that before so we just have the European Social Fund that's there, so you can't take just one piece, take out what suits you and not take into account the wider picture. When you look at the withdrawal from the EU funds, the general ministry this year was the year of the biggest expenditure for both the Regional Development Fund, the centres of excellence, the infrastructure, etc., and also as far as the European Social Fund is concerned, for this human aspect, the question of the doctorate, the STEM scholarships that have been introduced, the question of scholarships for students who have a weaker social status, so I think that I generally see great progress, I think it's quite obvious, you can't deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62258	Let's move on. Next individual debate, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I think that my debate is the last of the reported, somehow I would like to stress first and foremost, on the basis of everything that has been said so far, that I am immensely glad that one of these topics appears in the morning part of the session, so we have a chance to discuss matters more rested and more separately. Secondly, I cannot conclude that today's agenda point is sort of on the agenda for this reason it is necessary and that we came to the end of the process and we are before the final proposal of the law, but it is also convenient, so whoever put it on the agenda, Mr. President, you hit this time with today's day, and with the schedule of putting it on the agenda because we have the appropriate anniversary of 10 years of work of the agency and then 30 years of functioning of the ERASMUS mobility programme and then other generations of ERASMUMS+ which, of course, brought a lot of good things to the Croatian education and science system, and has brought a lot of new opportunities in all areas in which the agency is working and I will remind some of its basic areas of work. First of all, education, training and sport, then the field of youth and the field of science. In these three categories we had a large number of projects and here I will just remind, someone has already said it, that in 30 years of implementation of ERASMUS programs we have in general about 9 million participants of which 40,000 individuals are waste in Croatia. When we say 40,000, it is an entire beautiful city of our people who have been given this opportunity to go to international exchange and thus enrich themselves with new knowledge and new experiences. It would also refer to that part of the Agency's activities relating to programmes in the field of education, training and in the field of youth. What seems to me to me from the perspective of young people and also from a personal perspective as someone who has actually spent his entire professional life in education but also by raising young people at all levels, from primary school to higher education level, I need to stress that value of young people going to international exchange and that value of travel, these experiences gained during travel to any EU country, and I have the necessary emphasis above all that aspect, that educational value where our young and students, of course, and students other than acquiring knowledge and competence spread their database in a formal and then informal, informative way. Likewise, this other component is very important and that is the educational value that I do not think we have mentioned so far the educational aspect of the mobility of international exchange. It is known that travel is generally broader and generally provides and encourages mutual acceptance and mutual understanding and acquisition of intercultural competences, ways and opportunities of communication and functioning just as someone said in a multicultural Europe and, of course, on this trail, we can also talk about travel as a kind of passport of peace which then enables intercultural principles to communicate people of different and cultures and worldly horizons, nationality, intensity, etc. And what I think is a great value of all of this, which most of these programs relate to users, which I have already mentioned in the debate on behalf of the club, is this focus on the individual and the focus on the development of the person and the development of the personality of each of our young people because it seems to me that Croatia today, as far as its young people are concerned, is missing, above all, self-esteem, and then trust in themselves and trust and awareness in its own capacities. And then from all that, if we're aware of it, we should go and lean for further work on ourselves and lean to become lifelong students, and I think it's something that we need to instill in our young people as a value. And that's why my recommendation to the agency would go further to work on me would say more quality visibility, information towards individuals, towards institutions, but then and in a second step, of course, that's not only on the agency, that's also on the institutions, but the additional agency can help, on the motivation to go to foreign countries, in particular to that part of the young population from rural areas still for a variety of reasons, it seems to me that my colleague Vlaovic is now not talking about it, and they still find it difficult to decide to go to any international exchange. Somehow I think we should all work harder on it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62260	Since there are no replicas, we are going to the final exhibition on behalf of the promoter, Honored Secretary of State Mako Glunčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62261	I thank the President of the Parliament. Here, in short, so we have received two amendments from the Committee on Law and these are nomotechnical in nature, amendments that we will adopt and also five amendments to our parent committee on education, science and culture, which are mostly nomotechnical in nature and will be adopted until the next vote, so we accept them. It would only briefly refer to two, three things, especially Mr. Vlaovic's speech. So in the long term it is envisaged that the agency will set up regional branches what is quite important not to be... only here in Zagreb, but currently the agency conducts different workshops at smaller centres such as Vukovar, Gospić, Knin, etc. so that it is simply concerned that this knowledge of ERASMUSU+ and these mobility and different programmes that the agency is concerned about is being extended to the territory of Croatia and not only to Zagreb. What should be noted is that, in principle, it often turns out that this amount that our students receive by going out is not enough to finance everything, but in principle they would pay the apartment or food anyway if they were here right now in Zagreb, so that it only comes to them as one supplement that they get through ERASMUS+. And my colleague just now told me that, in principle, Croatia is giving the biggest support in all of Erasmus across Europe and we are still adding about 200 euros per month to socio-economic ones, meaning for students who are in socio-economic status. And the third point that I would point out that we have already reached the same number of students who come to Croatia and students leaving Croatia so that Croatia has simply become an attractive destination even for foreign students to come to Croatia so that the programme has achieved its goal of having equal number of students who go outside and come outside. And what he would point out would basically now, given that I came back from Chile and Argentina there, we strongly advertised this ERASMUS+ for the countries of Latin America, should be advertised as much as possible. I saw that they didn't even know that there was such a single program means that it needs to be advertised as much in countries that don't know that such a thing exists and that they can apply to such programs through our universities or institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62262	Thank you, Secretary of State. This is what we came to the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we're going to vote. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats so we can check the quorum. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here comes the president of the HDZ Club of Representatives, says a few more MPs are missing and will be here very soon, and we will now take another 15 minutes. The vote is at 10 o'clock and 30 minutes. It's 10:14 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62266	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The final proposal of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is before us. Since the status and material rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families and victims of the Homeland War were distributed in a number of different laws, which created legal and existential uncertainty for users and that the applicable Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families had been changed more than ten times, the analysis of the situation showed the need for extensive changes. We have approached the creation of this law in order to provide the most responsible defenses of the homeland with comprehensive care tailored to their needs. The final proposal of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families provides for the following main developments in relation to the current law. Opening of the deadline for recognition of the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the status of Croatian wartime wartime warlord from the Homeland War on the basis of disease. The introduction of new categories of participants in the Homeland War and the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, the introduction of benefits for unemployed Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The higher amount of the lowest pension, depending on the length of participation in the fighting sector, the reduction of the age limit for retirement, depending on the length of participation in the fighting sector, the right to a family pension for spouses or extramaritals where children of dead Croatian defenders and Croatian wartime disabled under more favourable conditions. Systematic reviews for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, as well as the adoption of a National Strategy for the Protection and Conservation of the Health of Croatian Defence and Victims of the Homeland War. Medical rehabilitation for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War with damage to the organism as a consequence of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Intensification of housing in cooperation with state administration authorities which manages RS-owned apartments and houses. Extending the right to take advantage of employment, and introducing a fiscal relief for employers who employ children of the deadly victims or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The work of Croatian defenders with pension is enabled. The establishment of records of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. In terms of education rights, the envisaged introduction of the right to a free hot meal in primary schools for children of Croatian defenders who cannot do so on a second basis. Extending the right to free textbooks, support for education and advantage in accommodation in pupils and student homes to children of Croatian defenders with 100 days of fighting sector. The establishment of a special establishment unit within the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities that will perform the skills for the purpose of achieving the status and material rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Strengthening the regional units of the Croatian Defence Ministry, protecting acquired rights and extending pension rights for the victims of members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of their families. The first reading and discussion in the Croatian Parliament was September 27th and the bill was adopted on October 4th this year. All proposals from the first reading and discussion of the proposal have been intensively aligned with the restoring ministries following which the final proposal for a law adopted by the government was drawn up on 23.11.2017. Compared to the proposal for a law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in the text of the final bill, the following most important changes were made. Article 1 complies with the Homeland War Declaration. Article 4(1) extends to all groups of Croatian military disabled persons who, at the time of entry into force of this law, are at the regular cost of personal disability. Article 6(1)(d) has been reformed in a way that covers all groups that, according to current regulations, have been able to achieve the status of family members of the death-sufficient Croatian defender from the Homeland War who died of disease, disease deterioration or disease in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Article 15 adds that the status of participants in the Homeland War is achieved by persons who do not have recognised the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War. Article 21(1) has been amended and divided into two points and new paragraphs 3 and 4 have been added to which it has been defined that, under the arbitrary abandonment of the unit as an obstacle to the exercise of status and rights under this law, they do not consider situations where the reason for leaving the unit was an interruption of the military service, i.e. the termination of the employment relationship. In Article 46, paragraph 4 is deleted. In view of the fact that there are interests and other groups for the termination or exception of the reduction and in order to avoid any discrimination, the arrangement will be left to the amendments to the Pension Reduction Act, which are reached under specific pension rules. Article 69 has been amended in a way that, from the previous paragraph 1 (b) is singled out in a separate item, which states that 100 % of the first group of Croatian war invalids will be entitled to the award of monetary equivalent for the purchase of a personal car only exceptionally with the previous opinion of the Commission. In Article 84, a new paragraph 2 has been added to establish the existence of an obstacle to housing. Article 97 adds new items to which additional cases have been arranged for the abolition of the decision on the granting of a housing loan in order to cover cases where the need for withdrawal has been demonstrated in practice so far. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication The General Administrative Procedure Act. In Articles 101 and 102, an item was added setting out that the priority in employment does not apply to employment through public works measures. Public work is a measure of active policy and employment aimed at the activation, motivation of all unemployed people who are in an unfavourable position on the labour market and who are threatened by long-term unemployment or social exclusion. Due to a series of personal and other characteristics and as such should be equally accessible to all those in the above situations. In accordance with Article 103(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part: In Article 107 of the category of blind parents and children of the dead Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War replaced by categories of parents of the deceased Croatian wartime warlord from the Homeland War who had no spouse or non-marriage mate at the time of death and the parents of the deceased Croatian defender from the Homeland War who participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia for at least 100 days and who had no spouse or non-marriage mate at the time of death. Of course, with the other conditions laid down by law. Article 119(1) deletes the conditions for the exercise of the right to one-off financial assistance due to the inability to meet the basic living needs provided for by the abovementioned points and (b) which have been established that users or members of their households should not be included in the register of agricultural holdings and that users should not be bonds of payment of contributions to pension insurance based on agricultural activity. Instead, it is added that users should not have a registered company or crafts company. Listed for reasons of prevention, duplication, implementation of aid on the basis of the same case. In Article 122, paragraph 2 is deleted, providing for an extension of the right to an allowance for children. That is why all the extensions of this right will be able to be regulated in the event of amendments and additions to the Law on Extra for Children. Article 129 has been amended in such a way as to regulate the primary legal aid in more detail as regards secondary legal aid to the general regulation. In Article 131(5), the determination of the value of shares according to market value has been deleted and the value of shares will be determined in a manner determined by the State Property Management Act. It is added to paragraph 5, which provides that the right to resign may be exercised if the application for the withdrawal of shares is submitted within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Act, or within 6 months of the date of validity of the decision establishing the status under which this right is exercised. Article 168(2) has been amended in such a way that it is specified that units of local and regional self-government are obliged to allocate funds for the implementation of public tenders for projects and programmes of Homeland War associations registered or operating in their territory but not indicating the amount of funds. For reasons of respecting the various financial opportunities of local self-government units, mentioned above. In Article 179 of the Law, this is Article 180. The final draft law, under point F, has been added to describe the warpath as one of the evidence that the wound, injury, disease, worsening of the disease, or the occurrence of the disease or death suffered under the circumstances referred to in Article 3(2) of this Act. In Article 179, point G-K was amended in such a way that the status was deleted, that the status of the participant was deleted, that the status of the participant was determined by official duty. Article 181 adds paragraphs 2 to 4 to which, in order to achieve the status of the Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War, a mandatory professional assessment has been introduced prior to the process of artisanalisation in the Office for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons for Disabilities and all with a view to ensuring a maximum degree of accuracy in determining the causal link between the disease of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into Proposal for a Law of Article 195 The final proposal of the Law was deleted from paragraphs 2 to 6 as the objective provided for can also be achieved under the general rules. Article 214 provides for the write-off of credit claims made on the basis of a credit programme for the recruitment of developed Croatian defenders, it has been deleted and the write-off of the claim in that case will continue, as has been the case so far, in accordance with the criteria and in the procedure laid down by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The financial impact according to the assessment of the financial impact in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 for the implementation of this law in relation to the existing legal solution should be provided for an additional 219.2 million kuna at the position of the Croatian Defence Ministry. Also, at the position of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System in 2018, it is necessary to provide additional 64 million kuna. All the funds necessary for the implementation of this law are secured within the limits of the total expenditure of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2018-2020, set out in the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for the period 2018-2020. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will make a contribution to the adoption of this law because we must not allow those who created the Republic, who gave their lives for it, who have been wounded and become disabled, their families who have passed all the suffering and suffering with them, to be seen as a burden to this society. All of us, the entire Croatian state must be aware that without Croatian defenders there would be no independent and independent Republic. Respecting the observed problems of the defence population and this law proposed measures to resolve them, I urge all of you to have a unique approach to the adoption of laws that would be the most responsible for defending our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62267	Thank you very much. We have a really long line of replicas and let's start from the beginning. The first came from a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62268	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. ... Dear Secretary of State, assistants. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] In 1991 it was a long time ago, we forgot it, and we forgot it in 1992, '93, '94, '95. So when we remember those years, when we remember that feeling we had, what we would do is give anything to take arms into the hands of Croatian boys, defend the modernity and freedom of the Croatian state, I think at that time we would agree to everything, and today as if we had forgotten all that sacrifice that thousands of young people gave for the Croatian homeland, so it took so long to pass this law or come to debate the law that would give them the right way of thanking them for all that they did. He would dare to say that there is not a single law that has raised so much attention in the Croatian public, justifiably, because it has spoken of a single attitude of Croatia and some set of exes towards the Croatian defender who will be said this time, very correct. And I would still like to connect one topic here, so I would like to mention two Croatian defenders who, along with many of you here, have defended the sovereignty of our country, which is Slobodan Praljak and Milivo Petkovic, who look forward to tomorrow's verdict in The Hague court, so let's not forget them. Let us not forget them in our thoughts, and our prayers, tomorrow is a key day for them, let us not forget that they have defended their country Croatia, so here is Milivo Petkovic and my Sibenik, so we look forward to tomorrow and hope to celebrate it all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62269	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62270	Dear Minister of Defense, I'd like to ask you one thing. In fact, I don't know if you know that Alexander the Great when he took over the known world had a total of 47,000 soldiers. The Genghis Khan who came to Europe from Mongolia had 130,000 soldiers. And now this is a very interesting detail regarding Napoleon. Napoleon had an army of 420,000 people and went with it to Russia, won Borodin, reached Moscow with the military, meaning 20% less than you think there are Croatian defenders. It is not clear to me why in Croatia is constantly repeating the false thesis that we have fought against a stronger enemy, a more numerous enemy if our country's friend, or defender, was more than 500,000 or half a million? I think there's been an inflation of figures with the aim of enrolling HDZ personnel, or that people who were not defenders are given rights that don't belong to them to create one voter base. That this law does not include false defenders and those who did not participate in the war because it was '96. 'Cause '96. The war didn't last, I would personally support this law but I think such inflation is a right that extends rights to such a huge group of people plus their families, in fact it loses any sense or real defenders should have given more rights than you gave, and to those who are not defenders, that right should have been abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62271	Thank you. Was that a violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Zekanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62272	Dear counterpart Pernar injured point 238, demeaning all Croatian defenders sitting in this House. My colleague Pernar, what you're saying, it's lies, lies, and I don't think Parliament's the place where those lies and lies can be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62273	Okay, I estimate that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I beg you, let's not start with any injuries to the Rules of Procedure because I won't allow them. I'm not going to let you argue with the Rules of Procedure's injuries instead of the replicas. I'm going to give my word to the Rules of Procedure, another colleague of Pernar, and after that, please, over.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62274	Thank you. I just wanted to say that I think if Mr. Zekanovic has something to say, he should report for an individual debate or report for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62275	My colleague Pernar, that's what I said. Therefore, do not abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62276	But when he did it, you didn't make a big deal out of it, and when I said it...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62277	Yes, it is. I told him, and now I'm telling you, and I'm asking everyone else not to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62278	Well, that's all I'd ask. And otherwise HDZs have a practice of abuse of the Adjudication Institute of Rules of Procedure. I do it very, very rarely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62279	Comrade Pernar, I think we're dealing with a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I hope it's over because I repeat. I even allow someone to charge me with breaking the Rules of Procedure. I will not let you bicker instead of replicas that have already experienced inflation with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'm saying in advance. Here it is, let's normally hold a normal discussion with different opinions, with different attitudes as usual. The next replica is Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. According to that old max that the road to hell was filled with good intentions I have no doubt that a large part of the people who worked to prepare this law had the most honorable intentions and that they probably saw before them and before their eyes those most needed, who were marginalized, who were either unrequited or unhappy because of bureaucratic or other gaps or difficulties. But we need to look at what the real effect of this bill is. According to my deep belief, it is one of the most immoral laws that has been proposed to the Croatian Parliament so far. Why? Because he's hitting on the foundation of society's morality. He instead of having values as a joke of self-respect, self-preservation, self-realization, honesty, morality promotes what? He promotes social addiction. Two weeks ago, a man who was in his late 40s told me that if this law went into effect, he would shut down his craft and take from the state the right, or use the right to compensation for the unemployed. So can you figure out what's going on that people in the '40s or '50s who ended the war at the age of 20, after 20 and a few years fighting for the future of themselves and their families and their children now say I'm going to use this law. It is immoral, immoral towards society and immoral towards themselves because they are given one opportunity to be humiliated, to have the right to work, to be creative, to be entitled to their own ability and to be granted a fee for the unemployed. Are you aware of what you're doing? In a speech on behalf of the club, I'm going to do what you didn't do, or what you did, and now you've been silent, and that's an assessment of the fiscal impact that seeing what you actually came up with.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62281	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62282	Thank you, Vice President. Here's what I'm looking at is exactly the difference between the first and the second reading and some of the suggestions we've had. I'm sorry that one part of every law should have, which is about justice, and that's the part in the debate that we highlighted, and I personally pointed out that it's hard for people who were also defenders, let's just say the same number of days we mentioned it. Let's say 200 is going to be after a full-time job for 40 years, so let's do it for 3 and a half, 4000 on average kuna net equal pension as a defender with equal number of days spent in the fighting sector so that's the same 200 that's been working for, say, 5 months or 5 years. So it is not disputed that we pay back the debt to the defenders, but it is disputed for me that those who have worked, paid 40 years because they retire under the Law on a special regulation that is smaller, they have no right to those 25%. But if they were given 27% of the allowance, they'd still have less than this defender. In my opinion, I'm kind of sorry it didn't miss to make or reward that justice here. What I am pleased to explain is the definition of members of a wider family than what we have discussed, so here it is true that the narrow and wider family is not too wide a concept of the exercise of the right that concerns both the right to inherit and certain other benefits which clearly call for certain legal provisions, so that we can be satisfied. What remains a major issue among others, of course, and in front of the club we will discuss and the other things are related to this financing article 168, which has changed where 0.3 to 1% of the original incomes were envisaged. It's out now. I'm just curious here at the level of the regulation whether this will be arranged on the same percentage and how, you mean, you'll respect the fiscal capacities of local self-government units as you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62283	Thank you. The next replica is Honored Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62284	Thank you very much. A good law which, apparently in his work, will be involved by people who were in conflict of interest, because they clearly defended their interests, but did not look at the interests of others from a wide society. And this law that deeply discriminates against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We share the citizens in two populations one small, relatively small compared to the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have all the benefits, which will say for pensions, so when they retire, the defenders will get that supplement on that pension, and the one who did the same as that defender will not get that supplement. We have deep-seated, immoral discrimination regardless of what's gonna cost us somewhere between two and four billion. The other thing that is also in this law is this fee for the unemployed. It is permanent no matter how unemployed you are while someone who is also unemployed and is not a defender or has lost his job after 30 years of work will have it only three years. So it's something this law does. Mr. Minister, you should not have provided such a law because the defenders with this will be more stigmatized than they were in society as one privileged caste and Croatian society does not deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62285	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62286	Dear Minister. I'll look back at Article 5. It's a constant that you took over from the old law. Article 5 says that the volunteer of the Homeland War is a Croatian defender from the Homeland War who participated in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the fighting sector for at least one hundred days between 5 August 1990 and 15 January 1992. I believe that in this version of the law it is necessary to correct it because it is simply a historical lie. On August 5, 1990, the date cannot be taken as the date of the start of the acquisition of the status of defender of the Homeland War, because it comes to the Knin barricades only after the Great Lady and around August 15, 1990. I wonder why this does not change and I wonder what number of Croatian defenders who have recognised the status of Croatian defender since 5 August 1990? I have been in the organisation of the defence of the Republic of Serbia since the first day of the war and I have been prepared to oppose the great Serbian aggression and I have recognised my status since 15 October 1990 because these were the days and weeks when Croatia began to arm and create the first frameworks of the defence of the Republic of Croatia. All that has been behind this since 5 August 1990, except for the regular force of the MUP, are inaccuracies and all those who have been status since 5 August 1990 and have not been members of the MUP can not be subject to that category. Today we have 560,000 defenders, I'm curious to know what number of those defenders who have recognised their status since 5 August 1990, what number is that? It's hard for me to estimate what number this is. But I guess it's about tens of thousands. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] This should be corrected and applied in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62287	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62288	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister. The democratic state is a state of equal and legal status of equal individuals. Your law does not go in the direction of achieving such a thing. Your law distances us from that idea. Your law increases the rights of defenders in relation to all other citizens and increases these privileges at the expense of those same citizens. They'll have to pay for it. This may fill that idea of yours under the tent that you have now pointed out, that the defenders created Croatia and then we have the relationship of the creator and created, so the creator treats the creature as his sole property. And one creator has the right to interpret history, present and future of what he created. That right has no one else, it is the situation we are in, it also confirms the attack of counterpart Zekanovic on Pernar. He is fully in the spirit of your law and your thinking because Zekanovic refuses Pernar the right to even discuss this law, especially the way he discusses it. Thus discrimination in this society becomes obvious, it is at the expense of the majority of citizens and it will not achieve what you want, defend the dignity of the defenders. No, she'll humiliate him and destroy him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62289	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62290	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister. It is evident that this new legislative framework, which has been discussed a year and a half ago and with your strong insistence with these 11 working groups, has been passed by an excellent law, a good law that is comprehensive in relation to the rights that have been for defenders by various other ministries. It also seems to me that what you were saying in relation to the first reading to the second reading I counted about 74 changes in relation to the first reading, something was nomotechnical, and something was also materially related to this law. A number of newspapers introduced in this law particularly highlight the empowerment of the Croatian Defence Ministry's regional units. I believe and hope, and you can answer if you want in the end that these regional units will also be very well prepared and addressed to this Law on Croatian Defence so as not to cause abuse, but that the defenders will have credible interpretations of this law in order to apply their rights. Here I hope that in your address you may be able to clarify these regional units related to the Croatian Defence Ministry, which is very important because of the law enforcement itself and the users of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62291	Thank you. Next is the replica of the respected representative, Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62292	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates. Obviously, there's some sort of arrangement or reason you don't respond to replicas. I was going to ask you something very simple because the data that comes that we still have widows behind World War I and the obligation we have to them, so I'm not going to ask you now. But I'm going to remind you of one fact, and that's when we do the law, when we do the regulation, then we should have some experience that we didn't have to repeat, we had a step ahead. You were here especially when you compared the first and second reading of the Law, talking about loans related to Croatian defenders, i.e. certain real estate allocations. So it would be very good, in this law, that we have clearly defined provisions, that we do not repeat what we already had. So I'm going to remind you of not so long ago, a minister who was Minister of Montenegro, who didn't even come to his first session of the government, because it was shown in a way that by respecting a certain way of regulations, he did some facts that were immoral. Therefore, the provisions relating to loans, provisions relating to land management, i.e. land allocation, I think that the benefit of Croatian defenders, because it is certain that no one is interested in the day, general life and functioning of Croatian defenders in a certain way in order to be stigmatized and brought into a situation that we have a case like we had with unfortunate Minister Crnoj, who failed to reach his first cabinet session.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62293	And the next replica is the esteemed representative Vlaho Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62294	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, I really don't understand why we're resisting creation to be simply a decent and orderly society. Namely article 121, and please let me react here, changed again, but subject to manipulation. In the last term, the minister was able to allocate funds for one-off aid to his discussion rights and divided in this way, more than 7 million kuna. Now it can be done again in the same way, but it will be the Minister's sort of commission that you will appoint and bring... So why are we avoiding this administrative procedure, because that's what we're paying attention to at the public hearing, the Administrative Court has turned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's very important that we be organized society, decent society, and why in the grant of these funds, the Constitutional Court as some kind of civilization norm? So, before he was the minister himself, now we have some minister in the commission who decides on it, let's let it go to administrative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62295	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yes, the respected chairman of the War Veterans Committee, counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State and Secretary of State. Fellow MPs, the respected 100% disabled who follow us today in this debate on the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers headed by Mr. Glogoski. Well, here is the final proposal of the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families and the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament at today's session, which was held this morning, the final proposal of the Law on Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on 23.11.2017. 91 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. For the implementation of this law, according to the proposer's representative in 2018. The state budget provided 219 million kuna at the position of the Croatian Defence Ministry and 64 million kuna at the position of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, i.e. HZMO. In relation to the text of the draft law in the final draft law, no technical changes have been made and the following major amendments to the text of the law are made in Article. 1. The text is consistent with the Homeland War Declaration. Detailed provisions on housing and employment championship rights are more detailed. A professional assessment procedure shall be introduced in an authorised health institution prior to the found opinion of the body of art in the process of determining the status of Croatian wartime persons from the Homeland War, all other diseases, the article which prescribes the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide on the write-off of all outstanding and inaccessible claims held by credit users from the credit programme of employment,... Croatian armies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is left out to indicate the amount of funds that units of local and regional self-government are required to allocate for programmes and projects of the Homeland War Association, which operate in their area. But their obligation to allocate these funds remained, depending on the financial opportunities of individual units. In the debate, the committee members praised the amendments introduced in the text of the final draft law, and stressed the need to set the exact date of establishment of national protection, to avoid the possibility of some members being damaged and disabled in the exercise of law rights. The members of the Croatian Defence Council, the military disabled from 1 to 4 groups should be recognised the right to a disability pension, are 50 members of the Croatian Defence Council, who are sick or injured. In the provisions of the law, which prescribe labour rights, it is necessary to find a way to prevent legal persons owned by units of local or regional self-government, avoiding the right to priority in employment, unemployed Croatian defenders. It has also been requested to be resolved on the right to those levels of the lowest pension and to persons who cannot exercise the rights laid down in this law. After the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously with 9 votes in favour, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of a law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family, together with the 2 amendments in this report, which are in the case of Article 102, paragraph 1, the words "public tender or advert" shall be replaced by the words "public tender, advert or otherwise". The interpretation of this amendment would avoid the application of a provision on the employment of Croatian defenders under the same conditions as primarily legal persons owned by units of local and regional self-government. The fact is that legal persons owned by units of local and regional self-government are not obliged to open a public tender or advert, avoiding in a certain way the legal provisions on the right to priority in the employment of unemployed Croatian defenders. In Article 142(2), the words ‘100%-1’ are replaced by ‘1.-4’. Groups’. And the reason, we believe, is that it is necessary to recognise the right to a disability pension for members of the HVO, the wartime military disabled from the 1-4th group with 80-100% damage to the organism, the holders of a solution to the recognised right to a personal disability based on the disease and injury committed in BiH. It is the most difficult persons with disabilities from 80% to 100% damage to organisms that have not obtained the right to pension in BiH or in the Republic of Croatia that should be equated with the right to a disability pension as it is recognised to the wounded members of the HVO under the Treaty between the Republic of BiH on Cooperation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in BiH who were members of the HVO and members of their families and in paragraph 1 of this article. The Committee also unanimously with 9 votes to conclude that it obliges the Croatian Ministry of Defence to check and establish the correct date of establishment of national protection, for, this is all that the Committee has made today and I think that this unanimous decision on all these draft laws as well as amendments should be a guide to the Croatian Parliament and representatives and MPs how to treat the population of Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62297	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. And the first will be the Club of Representatives of the SDSS on behalf of which will speak the esteemed representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62298	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since the world and eternity, those who wage war for freedom and country have special rights and are particularly respected and appreciated in their countries. That's how it was, that's how it is today, and that's how it's gonna be. What we see throughout history is two things, the difference between societies that give their warriors rights after the war, integrate them into society and cultivate a culture of peace and build trust and societies that don't do it, but societies that use their warriors to maintain a culture of war, which prevents full integration and their and all others in society and on the other hand that doesn't maintain the best relations with those with whom they need to build and preserve peace. I would like our country to pass laws that will belong to the first category, and that's why I signed up for this bill. Because I think after all this time since the war, that's what we should think. Especially those of us who, in our own way, have made sure that we get a free and democratic country. And now let me say a few words about the law, on behalf of the SDSS club. The vast majority of the provisions of this Act are not controversial to this club because it concerns the rights that this country still can, we do not know how long it will but which it can provide and guarantee. But there's a set of rights that are controversial and I'll start from the next one. So Croatia is one of the few countries in the former Yugoslavia from Slovenia to Montenegro that has separate laws for its war veterans. Slovenia has a regulated status from 914, Serbia from 918, Montenegro to 918 or 914, I don't know anymore. We don't have that. We have separated the people who, in the continuance of the struggle for the freedom of this country and this people, have created a place for that freedom and for this people. I thought it would be time that after so many years and decades things started to change, they didn't change, and moreover, the divisions continued in this regard. I'll mention something at the end of my speech. In other words, the laws are not there, colleagues and colleagues, to write history, nor to determine what historical facts are and what are not historical facts, the laws are there to standardise what human rights are, what are human rights, what is a legislative, or normative framework that should apply within the state to all its citizens. If we also engage in what we do with Article 1, paragraph C, that we define in the laws historical truths or their understanding or their viewing, then we come to a serious danger of violating trust within the country and violating trust outside the country with those with whom we are obliged to build peace both within our borders and within our borders on one side. On the other hand, freedom of expression. Freedom of research, one of the most sacred freedoms society can have, I mean democratic society. What if tomorrow we get into a situation where someone says it's legal? You'd like to explore something different, you'd like to make a new contribution, it's certainly not a characteristic of a democratic society. And as a member of the academic community in this society, and not only as a member of this House, I find it strange to set things up, that the law is placed in a position which is history, which is not history. Another thing I want to say. If there are people whose rights are yet to be recognised as members of the Croatian military formations, as members of the Croatian military disabled, no one in this House will say that it is against it, but if we leave this issue open, then 30 or 40 years after the war, we will prove that someone got sick because he was a participant for 100 days or 200 days or 300 days or 4 years from a disease, it is a serious space in which we will put the doctor in an uneasy position, and we will bring people in a difficult social situation to reach for a right that in some other situations we would not have reached. Why do we need that? Under the circumstances of so much unemployment, under the circumstances of so many social difficulties and social differences. Not affected by the people who defended the country. They're not then, they're not affecting now. The third thing I want to say is the question of the category of tights and the spread of family members. It is indeed a serious question whether all those who are covered by the category of a narrow member and a wider member of the family, therefore the wife, children, parents should be equalised in the status of all the rights defined by this law. Does this country have that capacity when it is quite clear that our pension fund and the future of pension rights hang as an end? I understand the people who are looking for it, but I'm asking the question to us who need to think about the future, the sustainability of the pension fund, is this a sensible act. As for the dispute over, there were several disputes over the beginning of August 5, 1990. and June 96th. So we all know who we were in one way or another, whether we're fighting for peace, whether we're defending the country with weapons, whether we're doing business that was an important country at that point, we all know well when it started and when it ended. It ended with the signing of the Erdut Agreement on Eastern Slavonia Areas. It ended with the action of Flash and Storm as I know it and when it began. Someone may have better arguments, but you'd have to explain them in this House. Well, of course I do now, if it's June '96. counts as yet a war period, why does the signing of the Erdut Agreement not be interpreted as a contribution to peace and is not marked as a contribution to peace? There are other individual things, I'll mention two. I understand that it is necessary to provide a full set of rights to people especially disabled and members of their family, but is it necessary to provide all legal assistance in criminal persecution? Is it necessary? Imagine a situation where someone was charged with a war crime. And they'll get help from the state for the cost of criminal proceedings during and after. What's the presumption? What situation will the state's attorney be in, and what situation is the state in? And in what situation is there a basic, moral principle? And that's that one who commits war crimes is dishonest and that with honor and honor, freedom and defense can have nothing. So much for those who are still heard from this assembly and outside the assembly on different sides from both Croatia and Serbia. As long as we don't see the victims, who have been killed, but we only look at those we think are innocent, we won't understand what a war crime is, nor understand responsibility for what happened. The other thing I want to say is a matter of housing. There is no doubt that this is one of the fundamental rights that defenders, volunteers, members of their family should have. Especially disabled people, especially wives, close family members, those who died or disappeared. But I am dealing with the issue of achieving the right to housing care of members of the Serb community. What am I supposed to say to a man from Knin who calls me on Sunday at 11 o'clock before lunch, for who knows which time, who met Storm in Knin, was moved from his apartment, placed in a protective camp, when he returned, no longer could he go to his apartment and to this day is not in his apartment. His apartment was sold in the meantime, he's waiting for a 35-square-square housing, until today's day he hasn't got it. And we have not only these provisions in this law, we have a housing regulation, over which goes to the Office of State, for renovations and housing, according to which defenders have 100 index points in advance, in front of those who have, which are other categories. How is that possible? Well, it's totally against the law, in complete dissent with the Constitution. That I don't feel like I'm talking about morals. Isn't this man from Knin a war-suffering man? Didn't anyone get rich and profit from it? And the last thing I'm going to say, connecting it to the fact that unlike other areas of the former Yugoslavia, we don't have a single law to exercise the rights of war veterans. The alliance of anti-fascist fighters and anti-fascists, Mr. Minister, as you know this year, as number one, of the most numerous veterinary alliances, has won 80,000 kuna for its activity. What do they do with their 80,000 kn? To publish a magazine and nothing else. Is this how we value people who fought for freedom in another period? No matter how someone looks at it today, but they are. As one of our other descendants, in other circumstances, will in a different way, than those whose rights we regulate today are also fighting for freedom. I have that in mind. The world doesn't just begin from us, nor ends with us alone. And smart people always have that in mind and smart countries, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62299	Thank you very much. We have a really long list of replicas right now. The first reported for the replica, the respected representative Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62300	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pupovac, your recollection of the liquids, not to mention, the 2nd World War, is something if we were to put it into line that it was 70 years ago and if we took the youngest Croatian defenders from the Homeland War as a reference, then the youngest would be at least one 85 years old. The war left in the former Yugoslavia. In this law, we are dealing with the rights of Croatian defenders who fought for this Croatia in the Homeland War. You mentioned exactly that, let me say, paragraph C, but I think it perfectly describes the created state, which is who and what was called, the one who fought for this Croatia, was the Croatian defender. And on the other hand, who was the enemy? In my... in the attack, the Serb population was involved, meaning the domestic Serb population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] While I was in Lipovac on the line, at the very border, the attack began from Serbia. I haven't been to the border of Montenegro, so I can't confirm that part, but there are probably other witnesses. I don't see, at all, in that item, which is so controversial. So do they need, once again, to get all these people involved, to interview them all, to actually prove everything that we have here and here and me and probably other agents, who can confirm it. Otherwise, we're talking about the law here, the rights of Croatian defenders, their material rights, what they fought for. We can always learn in some detail, but it's definitely that we can't run history the way it suits you. You have a gallant situation, that you will be able to be here against this law and absolutely none of your MPs will blame you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62301	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Panenic, thank you for assigning a qualification for a gallant position here that I would not like to tell you that I am, would trade for my gallant position, for your negalant position. As far as Article 1 paragraph C is concerned, no one disputes what you say. Not even your experience, as you probably would if I were to talk about my experience, you wouldn't argue, but I won't do it, unlike you. No, I won't, because I care about the difficult peace facing this country. And as for the questions of those who are 85 years old today, it's not about their 85 years, and I don't know how many, several thousand of those people who are still alive, but it's about the values they fought for and the fact that they fought for this country as it stands in the preamble of the Constitution that you and I have sworn to. But if you are going to read the Constitution selectively, then of course you can, so these values and these people will not be considered an appropriate fact for what needs to be heard and what needs to be known in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62303	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representatives of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62304	Dear Mr. Pupovac, first I will say the defenders are the most responsible we have today an independent Republic of Croatia. Those who died and those who remained military disabled and all those who participated in this Homeland War, and that is a message to those who had discussed you before. And I'm going to read that item C and I'm only interested in Mr. Minister why you've actually caved in under the pressure of both Mr. Vukic and Mr. of your coalition actually partner of the SDSS Pupovac and changed what's a fact, and the fact is that Okay. Here is the Homeland War, in fact, was part of the organised importance of members of the Serb national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, organised and led by large-scale Serbian politics. [[Strenja Linić's colleagues are colleagues of Pupovac.]] That part we dropped and we put in fact that Croatian defenders defended and defended the Republic of Croatia within internationally recognised borders against the armed aggression committed by Serbia, Montenegro, the Yugoslav People's Army with an armed rebellion of part of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia. And unfortunately, there was a lot of noise, but it should have been left because we know that it was the great Serbian politics that was actually the beginning of everything that happened. The defenders are the most responsible that we today have Croatia and all those who participated in it. Just one short replica. Scientificly proven colleague, it has been scientifically proven that there is secondary trauma and we can't, we simply can't let those who have had a certain traumatic event in the war, who in some way have compensated that at any time later there will be no secondary trauma and real PTSD on which scientific papers exist. I can let you read them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62305	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62306	As for what you call pressure, I didn't need it or have it today, and I'm not going to have it tomorrow in this matter and in this matter I'm putting pressure on anyone. It's my duty just to say what I have as my understanding of things. The Minister was neither of me nor of me today nor was he under pressure yesterday nor will he be. He's free to decide how he thinks he's as good as you are, and I'm going to keep my right to say what I also think I have a basis for saying. And as for the issues of trauma and consequences, so imagine how many people who were not in the war of civilians, minority members in different ways, different circumstances have been traumatized today. Imagine people who walk down the street and who someone spits because he's a member of a minority or has a name and name? Or hang a Bad Blue Boys flag on his back, and he could hang something else. You're a doctor, you don't have to read any scientific papers. You may know what that may mean, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62307	The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62308	Dear fellow Pupovac, you spoke of writing history. You said no law can change history, or write history. You also said everyone has the right to comment, has the right to express. You've been expressing yourself here in your own way, but I'm sorry. But be careful, everyone has the right to express themselves, but anyone can comment on other people's expressions, too. I am sorry that I did not hear from your mouth the expression of Serbian aggression, which I have not heard from the great Serbian aggression, and you have spoken a lot about NOB fighters who still have 168451 in Croatia for information that receive pensions, preferential pensions, and this burdens the state budget with about 9 hundred million kuna per year. As far as war crimes are concerned, any war crimes should be convicted, so on either side. But again, I will repeat everyone has the right to express themselves, including counterpart Pernar and colleagues Stazic and you and everyone has the right to say that my colleague Pernar said that it is not true that Croatia was at war with the superior army. But I have the right to comment on it, as well as to comment on your speech because you did not use those essential terms, stressed that Croatia was under Serbian-Cresian aggression, or large-serb aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62309	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62310	My dear colleague, I greatly appreciate your willingness to discuss and I consider it a blessing on what I'm doing today. And the choice of words that you use and which I use is something that represents grace in such a delicate and painful subject for many people, including some who sit here. Do not blame me if I speak my own language if I avoid using the terms that are official. But everything I've done in my political action since the late '80s was dedicated to this country having peace, that all its citizens have peace and that on its territory in no part of our war. And I was the happiest when I could participate in the peaceful reintegration of Eastern Slavonia and allow people to return home to both. And as for the law and history, you know maybe I wouldn't pay so much attention if we weren't from this pay phone from a representative of an institution founded by the state heard that we should check out how history is taught at a university, by chance to the university where I work. I'm afraid of my colleague Zekanovic, that tomorrow someone will reach for this article and try to shut their mouths to some professor and tell him that he can't teach history because it's contrary to that legal provision, it's mine, and it's not something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62311	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Pupovac, I would like to thank you first in this replica to all members of the Serbian National Minority 9 thousand of them according to the records that gave an immeasurable pain in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, we should always emphasize them from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, and those who gave their lives immeasurably thanks. However, ministers in Croatia were the major Serbian aggression led by the Chetniks and the current Serbian president who must not influence the stances of this law either. We have a fellow Pupovac Declaration of Homeland War which during Racan's government accepted this Assembly and these amendments that are under c in the first article are embarrassing if HDZ agreed to the SDSS condition. I repeat once again, the Homeland War was liberating, it's not my fault that I was 19 years old, that my neighbours of Serbian nationality went with me to the war to defend Croatia my neighbours and other people. And thank them and we triangulate the historical facts to point out. But the fact is that the large Serb aggression was committed on the Republic of Croatia, a third of Croatia was occupied and the Croatian soldier defended Croatia, Croatian military regardless of nationality. And it is embarrassing to talk about the Law on Croatian Defence, and to be dictated by ministers from Belgrade by the man Vukic, who called for large Serbia not far from Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62313	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62314	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, what you are saying now and how you have now spoken is a typical example of the danger this topic can provoke, and certain provisions can be provoked. It is clear that the state cannot write the law. There is a state union, such as the EU, an independent alliance that can co-operate with each other about the making of laws, but it was Serbia, Montenegro, America or any other Croatia that could not write the law, but also vice versa. You remember the debate about the Universal Jurisdiction Act that was conducted, is there anything that bothered us there? It was. Have we tried various ways to influence this change through both the European Parliament and here? Is that what we're gonna negotiate? We will. And it's quite certain I'll repeat once again that this law regarding the SDSS club neither wrote nor read it before it came to these benches. And don't insinuate either the minister or the HDZ colleagues that they've succumbed to pressures because these pressures haven't worked either, and that's not how this club works, and it doesn't work in this kind of thing. In this kind of thing, we just want to talk without labels. I'll tell you again, people have sacrificed themselves in different ways for this country, someone with a gun, and someone working on the ground, on the machine. in Parliament and elsewhere. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] All those people were important to her freedom.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62315	Thank you. The next replica is Ivica Misic's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62316	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pupovac, I've been listening to your presentations and we have one thing to say, today's defenders in '91. And '45. We can't compare them in any way. The defenders of Croatia are Croatian heroes who are without weapons, who even said that approximately the same army was on one side and on the other, that they had practically the same weapon, and we know that the emigrated military was what we only took in. That we were disarmed as a territorial defense in time for what just happened to us. I don't think it's okay to put '45 on. and '91. a year in the same context, and we also know that the five-pointer entered Vukovar the same that she destroyed with the same weapon of these "creaturers of Croatia" in '45. A year. One more thing I'm going to say is great Serbian aggression, you know well how many Croats from Serbia even entire villages had to be moved to Croatia, no one will talk about it. Here the individual cases you're talking about may be true what I can resent as individuals. But if we talk about crimes, Croatian crimes and Serb crimes, Serbian criminals are 90% and 99% not even convicted in Croatia, and even some have sat by some stories in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Croatian people forgave him, but surely he did not forget what happened to him. And this is the last time Mladic is seen as a certain Serbian high position in the Serbian Republic not to say to Serbia he is considered a hero. It's a shame, and it's no shame that we want to raise our heroes and give them the rights they deserve long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62317	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62318	Mr. Vice President, fellow Muscle. Maybe you as my colleague didn't deserve me to stand up and answer you. No, no, I wouldn't even sit down because that doesn't allow me to do the Rules of Procedure. But what you said is worth answering. What you're saying is worth telling you. You say that people who are in '41. Equally bare-handed with an even bigger and more dangerous army, with several armies including domestic quizlings that you may have sympathy for. I don't know, maybe you do, I won't blame you. Maybe it's such a historic, family or any other experience. That's the way we're supposed to be. We're divided. You don't have to run from it. You say those people don't need to be evened out, you don't need to look at them. Did you read anything about it? Have you read people, have you read honest people who moved into that battle? Okay. And you think these people deserve to be considered nothing, that... No, no. [[You can't hear it.]] [[Please! Please don't throw it out of the bench! I'm asking you not to throw it out of the bench. Here's a colleague of Pupovac.]] Well, let's have a colleague talk. Let a colleague speak, because if he thinks that what he's saying is more useful than what he can hear from another, I don't have a problem with that. I'm a different belief. So I've devoted only a few sentences to that group of veterans, and I think rightly, because they've been disproved. Because what you're saying is that someone has or a colleague of Zekanovic has privileged pensions. In early '91. The thing that's been made is that they've had their pensions cut in half. They didn't bring those pensions back until today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62319	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62320	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Pupovci like this. You mentioned two words that hurt me, that's historical truth. We've talked a lot here about the historical truth in this House. Where is the genealogy of these crimes in these areas since 1912, the first Balkan war, we won't talk about it too much until '99. in Kosovo where this war stopped. Who heard anything about it? No one. Genesis is gone. We're still wandering in the dark, we're still listening to that kumrov school of history, and we know where that got us today when you sang all "Born Mother of the Two Hero Sons of Tito and Stalin". Here we are today where we are an independent free Croatian state that some of my right-wing states can't think of. Let's do this crime thing then. 90% more crimes in BiH have been committed by Serbian paramilitarys and by the Serbian JNA army where 80% were officers of Serbian nationality. War damage. So we have 34 billion dollars of war damage in this last war, and the Croatian soldier has never crossed the border there, has never terrorized anyone. We have Croatia paying today which is another slap one, paying 33% of the former South's debt there, that failed state experiment we're defending here and we're trying to legitimize, there's a head sitting right here, who doesn't know who's attacking them. It's still pushing that thesis civil war, etc. Here's not only that, but the Croatian defenders are tried when they get out of prison, and hundreds of thousands of kunas are thrown up there for retirement. The Americans have fought 19 wars since '45. The years where nearly 8 million people were killed. They didn't bring any of their soldiers down in a criminal court, they did it on their own. And what is it today, here's the defenders again showing up as parasites here I'd say that. You didn't mention it directly. And... Two hundred and fifty thousand unemployed, actually working. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 82,000 unemployed, etc. We need to talk about these topics, and we're full of suitcases of kumrov school, ideologies. Bones do not lie, you have 2,000 mass graves from the Slovenian border down to the Bulgarian border. And it's time for us to stop with the historical lies, to deal with facts and... who goes to Brijuni to sit down... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, fellow Glasnović.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62321	We don't have an answer. The next replica is respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Pupovac, you've made it very clear that from the world and the century there have always been special rights for those who created the state, defended the state and defended the state. Of course, in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the new Constitution, Croatian people and Croatian defenders are listed as you in the original foundations like those who created freedom. Likewise, in this law, what is controversial for you is this Article C in Article 1 C of the definition of the Croatian defender and he defended it from whom. I don't think there should be any controversy, given that now it's really like the declaration that was made by me if I have good information or memory unanimously in this unanimous in this Croatian Parliament, it is now put in this article, in this paragraph c, I think it speaks clearly of the aggression which is and who has executed it. I don't think anyone can get away from it or should. But the provo of this when the world is and ever is, I remember the protest when Djuro led and under the tent came the Ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Ellen Berends. And she said she was interested in following the events related to the protest and could not understand what the Croatian defenders were protesting, why. Because in her country, war veterans are heroes. She is also the daughter of a World War II war veteran, and she has shown more interest and wonder. It is really not clear why in the world of war veterans is considered national heroes and in Croatia privileged or some other names named.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62323	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Kresha Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62324	Thank you very much. Dear Sir, fellow Pupovac, you have brought forth this whole series of criticisms under this law that I would not agree with the great majority, of course, but that is my opinion, you have the right to your opinion of course. I would not replicate as much of you as the things that I have in this whole story about your presentation are quite controversial and concerns events in this Croatian Assembly and certain things that can be heard today by people who together represent most of you. So it's not disputed for me because it's known that the biggest cowards are those who attack minorities, exactly minorities, in any sense. It's easy when you have 100, 200 people on one side and 3, 4 on the other side, it's easy to attack. And I'm sorry that they're attacking you, because my colleague Bulj is right not only is it 9 grand or how many thousands but people actively took part in the defense. It was also for colleagues who forgot it or who did not know a lot of people who expressed loyalty to this country and who were Serbian nationalities who were not involved in the war but in political life, one of them was Mr. Pupovac. And I am pained by attacks on him as a man who, since the 1990s, has defended the Republic of Croatia in his own way as his country, as country and Croats and Serbs, of whom is a good part as we have heard and as we know, participated in the defence of his country, as a man who today represents this minority and who is as a minority weaker and numerical in the Assembly and in every other possible way. I'm sorry that you continue for your reasons to remain part of the ruling majority with people who openly hate you and who are cowards for no reason, I'm going to repeat once again, ordinary cowards because if you need to be brave, then that courage should have been shown in '91. And that courage can never in any way be shown because it is not courage but courage under quotes, or plain cowardice. In other words, both Christian and Catholic, if you want to defend the weak, I will be the first to defend you because you deserve to be defended.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62325	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62326	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear counterpart Beljak, first of all, thank you for your support, secondly, what I would like to say to you, would be unfairly unfair to accuse our HDZ colleagues of hating members of national minorities or hating me. ... As for individuals, as far as individuals are concerned, I understand my job in politics, among other things, that our society is free from any form of hatred. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[I'm asking you not to throw it out of the bench.]] And I don't have a problem if that's why I'm suffering and what's not a criticism, but it's an insult and an attack because that's what this job takes with it. And if you're one of those guys who wants to join this country that there's no hate and that's limited to some individuals who's going to do it in their private or other circumstances, but that's not on the public stage, in public space, in society and in social miles, it's our joint job. One of the reasons why I work with this Government of Andrej Plenkovic and the people who make up today's HDZ is because I understand that together we can free this legacy society left over from the war, the legacy left by politics including people who are fighting for the rights of defence groups have not resisted temptation and that is to spread hatred towards other people of a different political belief.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62327	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pupovac, I would agree with your exposure, there are a lot of things that I don't think are right in this law. And what I would also point out is that this law creates a caste of defenders, that defenders become a privileged group in society. So far, they've been kind of stigmatized by the implementation of this law, and they're going to be even more stegmatized as one, so part of our society that has all the privileges while the other part, most of them have no privilege whatsoever. And this also on the medical side, allowing to gain the status of defenders, i.e. the disabled of the homeland war now 20 and 25 years after the Homeland War is something that is very doubtful and the question of how medically this will explain what is the consequence, therefore, of nature, of natural ageing, which is the consequence of not knowing the participation in the Homeland War. I am afraid that in this way we are allowing votes to be bought to HDZ for future parliamentary elections because all those who believe that this will instill certain privileges beyond those who have not been in the war will clearly support the party that has passed such a law. I think it is a bear service, that it is a bear service to all those who have fought honorably for Croatia and who should be given privileges, they should be given honorably everything they need but there is some limit to which they should go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62329	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, there is no doubt that, as I said at the beginning of my presentation, defenceists in the Republic of Croatia and other veterans should enjoy certain privileges, certain rights that others cannot enjoy. Here's a whole set of rights that are undeniable like I said most of them. What concerns me is what goes beyond these frameworks of objective rights in health, pensions, housing, in different other rights provided by this law to be guaranteed or guaranteed or guaranteed so far. And that's the first thing that we don't use the law to open up space so that instead of having to end the war, we have to use the laws, to influence the academic community that they're going to do research. That the media will be influenced by how and how it will discuss matters of public interest. And the third thing, to influence whether in the country we will have in full and true terms that word to the policy of tolerance, that they will not determine who is political and who is politically guilty, who should be in power and who should not be in power. It is something that in democratic societies cannot and should not exist as any possibility in the law or any other kind of text or in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62331	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62332	Dear counterpart Pupovac, you said "the one who humbles war crimes is dishonest", but Pupovac, you are part of the government that will pay legal costs to those who have committed war crimes against Serbs. What are you going to tell these people and their families? What are you going to say to a Serb who can't go back to his apartment in Knin after 20 years? You mentioned him. What you're going to say is that in a coalition with a man or the same majority, who is our colleague, you told MP Zeljko Jovanovic that there will be another cartoon on his Colt just because he is a Serb. And fellow Pupovac, what will you tell Serbs when you are in coalition with a party whose members write the following, "By evicting our people will enable the return of Serbs to Knin and we will return to the beginning and destroy the dream of Dr. Franjo Tudjman, who for a reason has displaced this area."A fellow Pupovac, you must explain to the Serbs who disappear from Croatia what your role is and what benefit they have from you supporting this ruling majority who unfortunately does not only work against Serbs but also against us Croats by moving us from our hearths, by pushing the state into debt slavery, by massacred citizens and by handing them over to the mercy and mercy of various perpetrators. Mr. Pupovac, I urge you not to be together with those who have taken from you the parliamentary representative Mirko Raskovic whom you later learned that he was an associate of Karamarkov, etc., these are you, Mr. Pupovac, dead end of business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62333	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, what I was saying at the pay phone was directed primarily to those sitting here, but also to those outside, including belonging to the Serb community. Including members of all the other minority communities and the majority people, that's what I had to tell them, and that's when I told them something in replicas and now I'm going to tell you something. I've been in this business too long not to know how difficult peace can be built after the war and how difficult rights can be achieved and how difficult trust can be restored. For this reason, I put a special emphasis on these very things and expressed my view about this law concerned about these three values. As for the issue of evicting people from Croatia, if this government is at the bottom of the line with this prime minister could be responsible for the legacy of more than 25 years old, I would agree with you, but if by any chance you are lucky or unfortunate to be part of a ruling majority, and if you are still a member of the government, you will be welcomed by the same story because it is a legacy that cannot be solved in any term by any prime minister but must be the result of a longer, more serious and deeper effort. You often talk about the curse of capitalism that we are experiencing today, and we still haven't faced its consequences, but we dig up and fight with our past are just burying ourselves instead of accepting the present and turning to the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62335	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pupovac, you have troubled the question of the provision of the law that speaks of the assistance of Croatian defenders in criminal responsibility. So, you know, that I am not one of those who I represent the thesis that Croatian defenders in the defence war can't commit a war crime, that the Croatian defender can't rape, which we saw clearly a few days ago with a case in Sibenik. However, I will always strongly advocate that when the Croatian defender is charged with the most difficult acts, war crimes, these are war crimes, to get the help of the state, in the amount they need. Follow why I say that. Because many defenders don't have enough resources to defend themselves and defend themselves in court. We leave, of course, of the innocence of every Croatian defender, that he did not commit a war crime. And then there's a very simple solution, which of course gentlemen won't put into the law, because I tried it too, but of course, the resistance of individuals who are probably up there right now, was enormous. It is a matter of helping Croatian defenders, and then, if it is released, to no one, and if it is legally accused, to repay the funds the state has invested in its defence. Because at the time, we were no longer defending the Croatian defender, but defending a war criminal, which we don't want to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62337	The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62338	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Matic, with your final thought, I can say that I agree, because I've thought about it myself. But I'll tell you two more things about it, imagine the situation, the family, the returnees, who live on 500 kn help and something... And the sheep he has on his property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And who dared to press charges or initiate a crime case committed against a member of her own. What are these people's chances of a fair trial? In relation to someone who has a pension, because this law has provided him, who has other privileges and who will still have the help of the state financially, and not only financially, dear fellow Matic, and you know it well. That was my motive why I answered. And I came forward because many crimes for these reasons remain unpunished, and many people in this country cannot understand, as in other countries, that crimes have been committed. And that the people who committed them should answer for them, that's just a mere phrase. Because between a state that defends, which provides funds and from a lawyer who should be sued, it's very easy to erase the difference in roles.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62339	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed counsel, Steve Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62340	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Pupovac, I immediately remembered, the laws are not here to write history. This bill was passed on by the contemporaries and the history which they themselves witnessed and which they should write, so that at least the history of our lives would be remembered, not to be faked by history, as some before this. There's a lot of talk about victims of this assembly, individuals, and it's not about an aggressor that was a mass at some time. But it also mentioned the exploitation of the law, the law discriminated against citizens, privileged creators, not creators, but I'm going to set one example, one who is suspected of war crimes and convicted and who has to make up for 6.5 million kunas for the crime he allegedly committed. And the thing is, imagine this, September '91. The Korean bridge, on the one side of the bridge, only the young man, a Croatian policeman, armed with a machine gun, and on the other side of the Koran bridge, approached him by 13 reservers, some there unknown Serbians, armed, far stronger than him, far in a larger number. It means September '91. And since Plitvice Lakes and Crimes took place in Bor's village, he's a police officer, a specialist and they're headed over the bridge towards him. With what intention? And he then, what does he do? He only has that machine, to defend himself and his Carlovite, from whom? Of those who have no right to be here at this time. They came to take his town of Karlovac, 6.5 million kuna, is the one who would somewhere be a hero in... in America or I don't know where, and with us, we're after him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62341	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62342	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Culey, this is one of the reasons why history is not discussed in the Parliament. Because I'm going to tell you now how I saw it and heard it. Those reserves were domestic people that JNA, who raised, sent, released, returned, were captured and were captured, were killed. I recommend that we leave history outside this assembly and outside the law to those who will do so. Otherwise we'll be in constant misunderstanding and constant conflict. If you do not believe me, go down, you have living people and witnesses who will tell you what they have seen and what they have experienced.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62343	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62344	Dear fellow Pupovac, this whole exhibition of yours on behalf of your club rests on four great delusions. First, that Croatia is a legal state, secondly that it is a fair society, is the third delusion that it is moral, and the fourth is after these three. If she were a legal state, you call on the minister to oppose arguments, and you see that the minister does not at all, he has read this report and is no longer responding. What he needs arguments, he has power, he doesn't need arguments. And when there's no power when the people choose another government then they have tents and gas bombs, gas bottles, that's what they show. The second that this country is just, so see if anyone gets a chance to settle a housing issue a hundred points ahead of someone else, what justice to talk about here. So let's not be surprised that 50,000 people leave Croatia annually because they don't have those hundred points of advantage, they've stood before such men as the Bear. They're better off out there. There's no one there who's got a hundred points ahead of them. Third, it is moral, so see if this state will provide material support during both the criminal proceedings and after him and those who will be convicted, so there is morality, so what morality we are talking about. And the fourth of your delusions may be the greatest, that you will change that with your cooperation with this authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62345	The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62346	Dear colleague Stazic. If believing in right, legality, believing in righteousness and believing in morality and believing in cooperation with other people with whom better society should be created based on legality, based on righteousness and morality, then neither you nor I have anything to look for in this House. The point of politics is to believe that it can achieve what it doesn't have or what it doesn't have to do and what it needs to be, that's the meaning of what I've been saying, and that's why I'm working with people that I don't have to work with all the same beliefs, but I share some minimum responsibilities because I'm assessing that I can do with them because I couldn't do with some others.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62347	The next replica is the respected representative of Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62348	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Pupovac. Here I am, as most colleagues, going to refer to your exposure regarding your finding that law does not need to regulate and determine history. It's just the debate that you said, and so have many here before you and through their replicas, that things don't exactly stand. We are familiar with the original basis of the Constitution, we are familiar with the Assembly Declaration of Homeland War, but despite all this, if we listen to the months before the Storm, behind the Storm more trumpet than the Chetnik Dukes and their Huzitans from the East, if we listen to these days the statements of the former adviser of President Josipovic at the presentation of their new war and peace books, which say that only 11% of Croatian citizens wanted to do so in Croatia, and we know that at the referendum, almost 95% of 82% voted for independence and independence, and we know whose members of the parties left the Parliament when they voted, if we listen to these days, that there was a civil war in Croatia, if all of these expensive problems arise, and if some in this assembly raises the rights of defenders that the Croatian state, and I don't know who created the Croatian state, then I't know that there was a question that there was a large number of people in Croatia's name, and that the Croatian people who have been known to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62349	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Pupovec representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62350	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Skoric. Imagine a situation where you have people who fight with a rifle for their country, ordinary soldiers and their commanders, and they don't have those who work in factories, they don't have those who work on earth to feed them and to be able to supply them with all that is necessary. Imagine a country that is at war, and has no diplomacy that will lobby around and ask for conflict to be resolved as it is in harmony with interest. Imagine a country that is at war and has no allies and friends to help them at critical times. Was Croatia in such a situation when the war ended? It's not because if it was a war, it wouldn't have ended that way. That's what you know, and I know, maybe more than you do. Conscious of national freedom and state independence only to the eating group that should surely have the most privileges, and forget all the other ones of the most ordinary citizen that some colleagues here speak of today, who is without a job, whose child is leaving the country, whose end of the collapse is not wise. It's not good for the defenders either, it's not good for society, and it's not good for the historical truth, because the historical truth is more complex than how we sometimes articulate it. That was why I answered and why I'm saying it because I think it's time for me to talk like that. There are a lot of people here who carried high rank and who fought for this country. Do they look at her with the same eyes now as they saw her 10 or 15 years ago? No, I don't. Because it's not the same. Neither they are the same, nor the earth is the same, nor can we speak the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62351	Here's before we move on to the next club representative, just to introduce you to the weather situation. So we've got reports, reported so much that there's not a single replica that would take a debate for the next 3.5 hours. If it was as average as it is now, we had 15 replicas, before we had 12 replicas, if we had an average of 10 replicas, that would be another 10 hours. I'm just saying that if we keep up the pace of the replica then let's prepare for 13.5 hours to still be here about this point, we have another point after that. And now I will give my word to the next club of MPs and this is the club of representatives of MOST in the name of which the respected representative Vlaho Orepić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62352	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say that often when we want to tell ourselves and others what we are or what we believe we are saying what we are not and what we do not believe. And so really empty and off topic we start politicizing and there's no end to it. Today, it is really important for some to point out that they are large or even larger than some other patriots or that I do not use other expressions. But I warn that intellectual and spiritual honesty obliges us to debate responsibly today, to debate this issue soberly because we are talking about a question that is really challenging, which has great consequences for our society, can have great consequences for our society, may also cause some wrong and wrong reactions. So the political sensitivity of the topic and the moment at which this debate is taking place, I should note that tomorrow we expect the verdict we expect in The Hague court, but this must not move us all away, it must not deprive us of our obligation to be socially responsible. Please, today we can't be hunters of some voter's voices of these or those, talking to each other in any way. I will be because more concrete on behalf of our club and we really want to contribute to a concrete and reasoned debate. After the first reading of the bill, we intervened with 15 amendments, which complements which point to our responsible approach. It points to us who really want to achieve a decent and honest society in the Republic of Croatia. We must responsibly take this law to heart, not to be populist, responsible to the people and to the state. Well, let's take it in a row. Why is the article, Article 1, which defines who we have fought against in relation to the current law not listed by Serbian paramilitary troops from BiH? Why? And why is it really more than clear and prominent, and even the official large Serbian policy at that time, in that time being cast out of that article 1. Maybe it's some kind of wolf pressure or I don't know what, we know who it is or what it is. Let us be realistic, we should, we also suggested in Article 5(2) that underage volunteers and women should be added. Why isn't that accepted? Let's put it in the law, we know these people were defending your country. Suicide in itself is a terrible act, especially if it's the result of something that happened in the Homeland War. And now please, watch this, Article 6, paragraph e. means until the day of application of the law suicide is treated as mortally injured, the one who committed suicide and the day after that did not, the day after he died and, as with such status, enters into the law and exercises rights or does not exercise rights. We can't think about the law that way. Item f., Croatian wartime military disabled 100% first group, those when they die are considered mortally injured, but let's say those other groups don't. Why are we making a difference? Article 21 of the Law should be added to the exceptions to those to which the Law on General Forgiveness, Abolition applies. Because we are aware that, in exception, we have thrown out the exceptions of those who are abolized, so those who are abolized here can enjoy the rights that stem from this law. It's about 27 thousand people. Furthermore, this is also contrary to Article 1 because Article 1 mentions the fight against the part of the Serb population. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's okay. Be careful now, also in article 69, we are talking about cars, after 7 years we seem to dispute the need to after 7 years of a car that has used disability to be necessary and that it is entitled to another car also in accordance with its needs. So in the public debate, this problem has been distracted by the D.A.'s Attorney for Persons with Disabilities. Here I am going to give you an illusory example. You have here a picture of one of the defenders who lost both his legs in the Homeland War. He will exercise the right and the possibility of having a vehicle suitable to his needs while, for example, a child with a small-time defender who has cerebral palsy, who is disabled, can't even imagine that vehicle, either. So the kid's underage defender. Why are we making a difference? So after seven years, it's only fair that this vehicle and those vehicles are given to the needy. That's fair. We simply need to get close to the people, to those who can't even think about any car. Is there any way we can increase state spending by increasing the rights of defenders at this crisis moment for the state? Maybe that's a question that we need to ask, not perhaps, but surely. So for the implementation of this law it is necessary in 2018, please warn me if I am wrong, 219.2 million kuna... The Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, another 64 million, are projected each year until 2020. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are some estimates that the Defense Act will cost about 2 to 4 billion, and that's exactly what we're going to see, but that's one aspect of which we're running away from responsibility because of some populism. I say, we need to meet and we need to provide defenders with due respect and rights, but we need to be accountable to the social community, to the people who will pay for it. Do we even have any money for that? I'm a defense attorney and I'm telling you honestly, I don't want to be privileged at all, and I don't want anyone of mine to be privileged on that basis. I've had all five years of war. I don't want either the privileges or any differentiation of society on that basis, that can't happen. The defenders should be the social elite in one of their specific and necessary ways. So defending the state has been my duty and my honor, and that is how we need to think, not think through some rights and exercise of rights. Now pay attention to the following. So Article 121, there's been a change but there's still a possibility of manipulation, so I also mentioned it in the replica of the minister during the opening presentation. Before, the minister could decide to give a single aid to anyone and thus split over 7 million kunas. Now it can be done by the committee elected by the minister, right? That's inadmissible. Let us enter the sphere of the law, make a fair and orderly society, and in this way we treat the funds that are from the state budget and it must be verifiable. We should insist on the administrative procedure, gentlemen, even if it is denied. That's very clear. The administrative court also stressed this in a public debate and without administrative proceedings you do not have the right to appeal simply, so we need to go towards a regulated and fair state. Article 189, we're talking now watch this, 189. "If one is found to be a fake Croatian military invalid, he returns only the last 3 years since it was defined." And why not since he began to exercise his rights? If someone is a fake Croatian military invalid, then everything he took illegally should be returned. So when a court ruling defines the futility of law, everything that has been done under that law should be returned. We need to be clear and loud about the injustice that can happen in this context and not just back 3 years. I simply think that it is fair to demand and that it is polite to make this approach possible in this way. It is certainly followed by a review of the status of defenders and Article 196 speaks about the definition of that status and the right through a regular procedure. It accepted our proposal to delete paragraph 4 which did not define a two-stage procedure. That it must be a two-stage procedure is in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act and even Article 18. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guaranteeing the right to appeal in individual legal acts, of course, which also draws attention from the Administrative Court of Rijeka, as is known. Article 214, there has been a change thanks to our intervention and talks about eradicating non-refundable loans in full. My people, as much as this law would have cost the Republic of Croatia if it hadn't been for that article to be erased, we have information that it's about half a billion kuna somewhere. Just that one little review of what it was, 69 defenders paid off their loans, over 3,000 of them needed to be forgiven from paying off the loans they had raised between which Franjo Lucic or perhaps similar to him. We did not ask according to the precise socio-economic criteria to do so, but everything has been wiped out which is a good variant. Why in the final proposal of this law are campers called prisoners and not campers? Why there are no underage defenders, defense attorneys and campers, that should simply be added, that's true. It's easy to see that we're all supposed to defend our country. I'm just going to take a little look around, it's very important to notice that difference between the words of a prisoner and a camper. And I think we should respect that and respect it. So the prisoner is every person who's in any way trapped in a prison in a home arrest or in a camp. The prisoner within the meaning of this law is a word that reduces the horror of both Croatian defenders and persons who... this provision of the word camper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's put that word back because it's true and it reflects the reality that we've experienced, many of us, here, who participate here in the Homeland War. So we're going to make concrete amendments according to the presentation. But the law on this form simply cannot be supported, if nothing, then because of the changes in Article 1 paragraph C which avoids telling us who our aggressor is. And Article 21 on which we suggested that the abolized cannot enjoy the rights arising from this law, and you did not accept it. We cannot support such a final bill because we advocate a decent, fair society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62353	Thank you very much. And on your exhibit, we have more replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Ines Strena Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62354	Dear fellow Orepic, therefore, we have as many as 27 abolized members of the enemy army, who walk today, live, in this country, and would not be appalled, if they had obviously done something against Croatia and during the Homeland War, means and fought on the opposite side. And today they walk around and we say, and we know for a fact that they're walking around Vukovar and meeting their victims and so on, 27000. Some of them were even parliamentary representatives. And that's why we think, no matter what they say, who can't actually exercise rights. These are people who haven't been processed. They're not in the criminal record, but that's exactly why it's legal to write those who are abolized under the law of general forgiveness. And secondly, you may have missed, but you said, therefore, those who achieved article 189 were not all assets, based on their obtaining false documentation on the participation of the Homeland War and the suffering. It's not just about the funds, one's only been inside for three years since the beginning, from knowing it happened. But all that they have provided on the basis of it, and this means both the dwellings and everything else that is going on there. So one part of the articles, is, one part of our club's amendment was accepted, but it's particularly interesting what you actually said when we asked in art. The 214th to say clear and precise social economic criteria, including those for which certain credit claims will be forgiven. 69 of them are that loan he paid. But there are certainly 3000 of them who have used these loans for tourist apartments, not for purpose, all that they actually needed to build certain facilities and everything, and now that we forgive them and forget it. So we didn't specify the clear criteria at all, and the ministry's response to what we're looking for was to delete the whole article. Does that mean that the minister was planted? Did he even know the weight of this article, because as we said half a billion would be about the credit obligations of those 3,000 people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62355	Thank you. Please, let's just stick with the weather. You've gone too far. Answer, the respected representative of Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62356	I'll save time. So the classification of the abolized in a group of people who will enjoy the rights stemming from the Homeland War Act is inadmissible behavior... And we just need to make it right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, as inadmissible, if someone has lied to this country and to the troubles of a country that has passed trying to profit specifically, then we are talking about fake Croatian disabled people. So when this is established, when a court ruling defines the integrity of law, everything that has been done under that right, not just three years ago, it's extremely important, because we really want a fair society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62357	The next is the replica of the respected representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62358	Thank you very much. Comrade Vlaho, you said, for cars, related to Croatian military disabled 100% to be nice, to be convenient, that after 7 years of today cars are not unquality, they are still very good after 7 years. I must testify firsthand, therefore, to my experience, not to ever, no one returned the cars, but never suggested it. And I believe that if they put it in the law, so that they could drive it to the crawler, put it in that press and then return it to the ministry in the size of a pack of cigarettes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62359	The answer of the respected representative of Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62360	I simply believe that after 7 years of using the personal vehicle that the state gave you and after that, it will give you another new state, nothing but a cultural vehicle, to give you both the necessary and the ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62361	The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62362	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you said that your amendment was not accepted regarding women who also participated in the defence of sovereignty and minor Croatian defenders having volunteer status. I wouldn't agree with you here. Article 5(2) defines that precisely because he said that all those who were non-bonds, means that they could not be mobilised on call, that they have all volunteer status, so that they should only read the article carefully. Article 5(2) On the other hand, you said that we would all be responsible for society, when we talk about this law and I agree with you here. Let's really be all responsible for society, and so on and against all Croatian defenders, as part of this society. I truly believe that many words have been spoken today in this assembly, so I will not use the hard words, but I will say, above all, unworthy, us as representatives, who are sitting here today precisely because we have brave Croatian defenders who have defended our homeland, that they were not here today. When we talk about this law that really just expanded some rights, and it wasn't done in mind, the ministry did an analysis of what was visible in this book. Therefore, all the parameters relating to Croatian defenders have been considered and this law extends the rights to the most vulnerable group of defenders who have found themselves today in the situation that social cases, are not taken care of, that they live as singles without any rights and without the care of the state for them. So I think that we really need to be socially responsible and provide such defenders with what they really deserve, and that is the minimum of fair life in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62363	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62364	I'm really surprised that you as a woman are talking against what I said, so the women are, they weren't mandatory and they were involved in the Homeland War. And they deserve to be particularly highlighted in this law as well as 3,000 underage defenders. That's very important. The demagogue that you've continued on, I won't look back at it at all because I'm a first-to-last-day defender and I want a fair and decent state. And everything I said, I said out of my heart, out of respect for the defenders and the Homeland, and also responsibility to the people who pay us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62365	The next is a replica of the respected representative Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62366	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. On two, three occasions, you mentioned social responsibility when it comes to this law and I agree with you here that in the first order of the bill, social responsibility should be given. Unfortunately, this law pleases not all defenders but a certain group of defenders as it is. He was designed to repay Mr. Secretary for the tent, that's a fact. And ultimately, he's extremely socially irresponsible. Why am I saying that? The minister has repeatedly mentioned a number of 83,000 unemployed Croatian defenders who do not receive any compensation, etc. If we just multiply that times 1600 kuna a month and times 12 months, that's a billion and a half kuna a year. I won't even talk about other numbers. Therefore, I think that this law, I am for all the rights of Croatian defenders, I am for respecting the dignity of the Homeland War, for respecting those who participated in the war, is for those who died in the war to be given not the privilege, but to make up for what they lost. I did, but for this social irresponsibility, after all, and by handling the example that you have shown, the picture that you have erected of a young child's defender on the other side. What you've shown, then, is a defense attorney with no legs. Therefore, by handling myself and by doing so, I cannot support such a law and I don't think anyone should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62367	The answer of the respected representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62368	That's why, at the beginning of the presentation, I said to a respected colleague that we should avoid this topic, this law to be classical populists, to take some points for those who listen to us. No one will mention how much this law costs. We need to be aware whether we can bear this burden, whether our people who will pay us whether they will be able to bear that burden and in the spirit of it must be fundamentally just and therefore I have emphasized what I have emphasized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62369	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62370	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Orepić, although your debate was detailed and you pointed to a series of such problematic points that should be changed. My replica will be principled, and it's tied to two things crucial to your debate. First, not everyone who is reasonable opposes the fact that certain rights of the victims of the Homeland War and of all those who are in a difficult economic situation at the moment are because of their lack of work and their health needs to be improved. The key question is whether the state has any money for it. And now you rightly say the state should be responsible, but how? Now tell me how an average citizen of the Republic of Croatia can feel that the state will be responsible. If we move aside from the Agrockor affair, if we move aside from the privatisation of the '90s, let's just take Sanader's rule. It is estimated that 36 billion kuna would be spent on playing public procurement procedures and rules, about 22 billion on withdrawing money from the public sector. 16.6 billion hits and robbery in privatisation. Seven and a half billion speculation on building land. 15 and a half billion political corruption. I'm talking about a narrow period of Croatian history. And then you know how in Croatian society you do it mostly by stakeholders? They're passing the blame. Here's where the blame goes to the defenders. How much do you think has been spent on defenders all these years? When you take all the money you robbed in the Republic of Croatia, then it's not, then believe it's not big money. Just as it has been trying to put this whole time of guilt into the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament is responsible for all problems in Croatian society. The government is responsible, the government must pass such laws that will actually be respected then and financially and the government must use the institutions to deal with all the levels of crime in this country and that is the only way to recover this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62371	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62372	My dear colleague, I will repeat what I have pointed out, and in the spirit of the answer to what you have said. So I'm a personal defender. I don't want to be privileged, I don't want anyone of mine to be privileged on this matter. This law is necessary, it is necessary, it is necessary to regulate the rights of the defender who, knowing where their merit is in this society. However, we must not allow failures or negligence or intent to be a privileged layer that is going to speed up among other things, which means that we do not speed up the departure of our fellow citizens from the country that is currently happening. We must think honestly about this law, avoid such threats in the very content of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62373	The next one is the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62374	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Orepić, I had to react here, given that article 21 clearly states who can exercise the rights of this law and who cannot. It is therefore clearly understood that the status and rights of members of this law, associates of the enemy military, paramilitary forces involved in the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia, as well as members of their families, are not based on their injuries or persons who, according to criminal records, are being convicted by a judicial authority. So the interpretation of this you should at least know as a former minister that there are lists of all the abolized and all those who have experienced forgiveness. They're visible. And none of the bodies nor the Ministry of the Interior, nor the service, can allow any rights to be exercised by them, given that they have been deceived as such. Then what are you afraid of? It's all in the law. In the coordination of the Ministry of State Authorities, the Ministry of the Interior, it is clearly defined that this is what this article 21 should look like for minor volunteers defined in Article 5(2) that I do not read it now you should read it again and evaluate it and see that everything has been done in agreement with the association of minors who have also asked for 20% of what they have not been accepted. 20% of disability is not accepted. You log in or prisoner of Serbian concentration camps and I don't think there's any controversy here. What kind of name are you using, and that's consistent with the campers' associations and their leadership, and I don't think we should go with what doesn't stand and in law and which is not even in line with... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62375	The answer of the respected representative Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62376	Dear colleague, the 21st association of underage defenders had a session and literally said that we had disappointed them. Let's correct the injustices against them and put them in this law as they deserve. As for the abolized, the abolized have the legal position they have and they could be in a position to use the privileges of this law, that is, the rights arising under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62377	We will now move to the next club of representatives and this is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Predrag Matic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62378	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague from the balcony if he's looking at us today here after a year and a half of the protest, and even in some elements and terror, after a year and a half of clearing up the policy of 11 commissions and 250 people, we've got something I'd call before amending and supplementing the law because there are a few points that can be said to be good. But we have that pompous name unique. So pathetic as the basic ingredient of HDZ's pattern of governance and manipulation. What do you say? This law rewards tentacles. If we add more, but it is not the subject of this law that 50 new employees are being prepared in the ministry, which means women, children, close tenters plus a bunch of advisers with 100,000 euros in compensation for what happened. Mr. Djakic said let's pass this law and stop manipulating the defenders. Well, I agree with that. I've agreed with that for 27 years. But who performed the Split Riviera? Who brought Bestek? Who made the tents? Who brought gas bottles? Says the minister's goal is to change society's attitude towards defenders. I guess the other way around. But with this law, there's just no way and there's no hope. The defenders are already as popular as Partisans in '91. And after this law has been passed, it seems to me that there will be more. As far as the law itself is concerned, there are several good provisions, and as I have said, this could have been done in amending and supplementing the law because the Law on the rights of defenders existed was quite good and quite flexible and quite acceptable to the material opportunities that the state of Croatia has. But I'm not going to talk about these good things these few, and it's going to be the HDZ's representatives later when they praise. So I'll start with the funds. So, a typical HDZ pattern. For 2018, a billion 319 million are foreseen in the position of the Ministry of Defence and 4 billion 490 million in the position of pension. A colleague, Beus Richembergh, is almost unconscious at first reading when he said that the cost of detachment for the defence population by 2020 will cost us 5 and a half billion kuna. But now I, well seated, should tell him that already it is five billion and eight hundred million kuna in 2020 with more than six billion and 300 million kuna. However, the minister said in his presentation dead cold, watch 64 million, as I said last time he could say 320 thousand 821 kuna and 17 limes. However, here I double-counted on the computer and twice by hand. If the draft budget for 2018 is taken from last year, the difference between 4 billion 492 million kuna and 4 billion 138 million kuna is 354 million kuna. And you know what 354 million kuna is? It is the return of 10% to defenders with pensions greater than 5000 kunas, which the government of Zoran Milanovic and my little bit in 2014, reduced to defenders, but as the only government to decide that when conditions of GDP increase and deficit cuts are met, it will return. And this government did it a month ago, but she could have done it six months ago, but she's fine a month ago. So, 354 million, not 64 are enough for next year just to honor the defenders of this return commitment 10%. Cancellation of the defence registry and new defenders after 26 years. That's what I said last time, that's the HDZ special if all the restaurants have, and HDZ has its specialty. Believe me, in a few years we'll have a million defenders and now that this is current we can only ask why in the law and perhaps in the amendment, that these hybrid defenders are now being put into war, in the law that they too are being covered. Many rights have been given to members of the HVO, among other things, when it is read that those who are at the expense of the invalidity, simply a billion-and-a-half kuna, will no longer have to be sued, but from New Year's Eve will be a requirement to make it worth it. In addition, in giving HVO rights, a racist approach in the style of Mile Budak was applied because it was explicitly said by Croatian citizens, members of HVO, and we boast as among Croatian defenders that there were a lot of Serbs, a lot of Bosniaks, a lot of other nationalities. So if the Bosniak is wounded from the same grenade next to Jose, Jozo will get his rights and the Bosniak who cuts his hair. People's protection still have no idea, 25 years after the war ended, if there were 5,000 or 70, but it doesn't matter, it'll all settle down. I said that Plenkovic would have one fish like Jesus, and then they fixed me up and said that Jesus fed everything with two fish, but I'm really staying at Plenkovic's with one fish to settle it all. To the organizations, it was in the first reading, 0.3 to 1% of the budget of local self-government, now it's been abolished and now it's just being put on, it seems to me given the appetites of the associations that it would be better if there were 0.3 to 1% left, although it's drastic than what it's going to mean now, it's gotta be based on their programs, they're very imaginative, the program is going to be thank God. Compensation for 83,000 unemployed. Another colorful lie from the HDZ factory, so there were always unemployed and those who didn't receive it, but later on, when you read that everyone will get it, then read that still those who have some income, who have some country, who have a boat, who have a Renault 4 old rotten ones, they won't and will again reduce that figure from 83,000 to 7,000 as it was previous years, depending on how many people have the funds. Much of the provisions begin to be observed, 1.1.2019. Well, now that we're passing the law, so they won't move us, we'll bring some things before 1.1.2019. What does that mean in translation? You paint for free, or better yet you squatted in front of the tent and in summer and in winter, warmed and frozen, you were played again. So the article, read who doesn't believe, read Article 217, which says this law is worth 8 days since the publication in the National Journal, except for the articles of wallpaper and wallpaper and wallpaper. Who's in those articles? HVO. So smoke again. The new PTSDs, 40,000 demands, the minister last coldly said that 400th of us who have worked at the ministry for years know that the passing on medical committees is 75%, so if that's the case, and if it's tough, let's keep it 50%, we'll see how many there will be with these 40,000 demands already existing and there will be another 400,000. Be assured there's no such fool who'll be working in Konzum for 3,000 kuna if he can sit at home for 7. New campers, following internationally established rules on who was imprisoned, are now introducing something new. So whoever was held in his house for 15 minutes couldn't get out because there was a brush outside the door, he was also a camper, he couldn't get out. It'll also open up a lot of problems but we'll see. Retirement coefficients, 1.5 for defenders, 1.8 for whom? For whoever was squatting in front of the tent, for the Guard brigades, and for the special task force. I'd like to know what the people of the 112st of Zadar, the 113st of Sibenik, the 115st of Imoth, 142. ... what they're going to say to that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What will the Vukovar brigade say, they're not as valuable as the Guard Brigades and the Special Forces? I don't think so. Of course, neither this time nor the letters of the greatest victims of the Homeland War, which are civilian victims, nor the letters. A real rope and a wider family, it's mentioned here today. Well, people, the SuBNORs will go crazy when they see this, they didn't think of it. And lastly, one of the provisions might be said, it took three years to come up with, that the minister gives praises, some medals and rewards. People, medals are worth only from the president of the state, everything else is peanuts and some associations that give some medals, heroes, these, these, they, they don't have any value, that anyone can agree and give any distinction. We will not give amendments to this law for two reasons. The first is because the bill is so bad that 300 amendments would not fix it, and the second is of course that the ruling will not apply any amendments. I would like to think about it, but I would like to submit only one amendment, which is that this law is constitutional law, but not because I would support it to be constitutional law, but rather to see the faces of the tentacle when on the side of the HDZ and the ruling say this amendment is not respected. And for the end of the SDP club because of the strong social responsibility it has for all Croatian citizens and especially for the fair and quiet majority of Croatian defenders who are ashamed of this team, we will not support this law. But to comfort you, be sure the law will be passed and thanks to you I have to rub some salt on the wound, thanks to the Serbs, thanks to Sauchi and what's left of the HNS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62379	We have several replicas, the first Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Matic, your duty and obligation as former minister was to sit on the War Veterans Committee and discuss this law. This performance of you in this speaker in front of the SDP is embarrassing, although not all of the SDPs think like you, although not everyone will vote like you and have not already voted like you and announce such a vote. All those who recognize the values of this law, who were supported by all associations and who were their initiative clearly speak of being good and having improvements as you have recognised in many things and being unique in rights, and not in privileges, will be unique to those who deserve it, and not to those who do not deserve it. Of these 75% that you say are passing on commissions, you've probably figured out about your personality and your perception of passability that you, among those 75%, have gone through the commission as a difficult disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62381	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62382	And what to say when Mr. Djakic speaks is really difficult to talk about, so we don't talk privately or officially, and that's one of the things that I do in politics the best thing that's happened to me in politics. So, Mr. Djakic, you keep defending, I can't just let myself be stupid. So you're saying a single law, it was all about putting the defenders back on, and I can't do it without the MOTH, without the MUP, without the pension, without the health ministry, I just can't. The fact that you've returned the books from the Ministry of Education back to the Department of Defense if that's some kind of reform. But what to say, without offending you or anything, in Vukovar, they say, I see you get things you're not a sheep.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62383	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62384	Dear fellow Matic, I'm surprised to hear that again and again, I'm hearing a problem with the rights of members of the HVO, and they're only regulated here for those wartime disabled, killed, died because of the war and their family and nothing else. I'm surprised because you're also a defense attorney and I'm sure you know what the role of the HVO is in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. So the Croats of Herzegovina at the borders of the broadband and bridge municipalities set out on May 7th for the tank column of two Corpses, a column that went to split Croatia with Split. You are as much as I know the defender from Vukovar, so look at the few last names of the living or dead heroes of Vukovar Zadar, Lek, Komsic, Blažević, they are all last names from BiH. Furthermore, all the operations that contributed to the winning Storm were prepared in BiH from Livna, the Livna field, Glamoc, Grahova, Dinara and there they installed their victim and members of the HVO. I am more surprised that the position of Croats in BiH due to the majorisation of Bosniaks in the Federation has led to the situation that the rights of these defenders in BiH have actually been abolished completely illegally and violently. So here tomorrow at The Hague travels to the Bosniak Defence Minister of the Federation of BiH on the defence ministry's cost to attend the second-degree ruling by six Croat Croats from BiH. And finally, you are problemling the Bosniak issue that Bosniaks were members of the Council of Defense about 30% before the Bosniak-Croatian conflicts, but this is the law of the Croatian state and it is normal for them to address the rights of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62385	Thank you very much. Mr. Matic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr. Ljubic, you're HDZ, and you really can always cloud it and do it the way it suits you, and that's about like yesterday's press conference by your vice-president of the government asking him one question, and he's answering the other. So the possibility of some plagiarization of his work certainly has nothing to do with him being the commander of the Guard brigade, but he puts it first, so it's suspicious. So you know well that I have done for HVO and down for HVO defenders much more than these and those who are sitting in their chests about being in love with BiH. Yes, it was very, very special in my Vukovar region, people from BiH, but it is not again talking about BiH, it is talking about Croatia. What Trump would say we have Croatian defenders from Croatia and Croatian defenders from BiH, do not be angry or angry, but Croatian defenders from Croatia first that is my position, and we will help and we have helped. You know well and I don't know who will pay, so you always who are here in Parliament think I have a salary I don't care about here being courted and everything... who's gonna pay a billion and a half kuna so-called. The lawsuits you know well, so the team of Shusuk, Kresic, the Royces who met those, so we have wounded for those who don't know thousands of people were wounded by a grenade in the same place on the same day. It's just theoretically not possible, except that it's possible somewhere, and then it needs to pay another billion and a half kuna and you know it well. I am against it, not that it would accidentally help our countrymen in BiH, for that I always am.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62387	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62388	Thank you. You told your colleague Matić in your statement that we had a new 40,000 pension applications following this law. On the one hand, I'd ask you to explain it to me a little bit, and on the other hand, how do you think it's going to be 40,000, if the minister said he's going to consciousness at 400? So there's half a million defenders, you said there'd be a million of us in two, three or five years because obviously we're multiplying in some weird way over the years. As the years go by, there's more of us, there's not a lot of us who've been in the war, so it's all kind of weird. Please really explain that to me a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62389	Thank you very much. Mr. Matic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62390	A colleague of Vidovic, 40,000 requests for recognition of the status of a wartime military invalid on the basis of a disease already exists, are in drawers waiting to be processed. But after this law, I don't know, I think there's going to be another 400,000 of those demands, because I really don't see a fool standing up at 6:00 in the morning and going to work, if he can sit at home. And you need to know that after 27 years of every diabetes, every disease that has happened, and thank God, a lot of it will be left to deal with commissions in Mostar, I mean, I don't have much trust in the commission in Zagreb, let alone those in Mostar. And I'm sure, but here, the minister said 400 will pass and I want to believe him. 400 Croatia's budget will certainly hold, and 20, 30 thousand I don't believe.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62391	And the last replica, Mr. Mouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62392	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Matic, I simply can't believe you've been here for days saying I don't say you almost cry all the time, and now you just said, HDZ defenders, SDP defenders. So how are you not ashamed to talk like that about defenders? Or you want to split up and tell me from SDP we're not defenders, we're something else, but these are all doing it wrong. I'd like to hear from you, as well as the minister of the former, to say what you did right. To say what needs to be done for these people. Well, you say so yourself. Were you forced to do it or did you want to? Whether you love this country or not. The other day, you said you'd leave the Croatian state. So go if you don't like it. So don't spill demagogue all the time in the Parliament since I've listened to you. I don't get it. The defenders of Croatia exist as one defender. Neither SDP nor HDZ nor those who are not in any party, but they exist. We know who we're being attacked from, we know what we've been made of, and it's not worth anything. Let us come to the Parliament and spit about everything we've done in this country, we have the country thank God after so many centuries and so many centuries. I, perhaps, would say wrongly, so we might want to be Yugoslavia, not to be Croatia. Even though you've defended her, I have the impression that you regret what you've done. Give me more time to stop that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62393	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vidovic. Here you go. An article?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62394	So, under Article 238, by exposing his colleagues, according to what he was saying, so he insults me, as a representative of the SDP, he tells me that I'm some kind of SDP defender, on the other hand my colleagues are silent, as I speak now, I kept my mouth shut while you were talking. On the other hand, my colleagues from HDZ who are the same defenders, I believe they feel as hurt as I do. We were defending the Republic of Croatia, and we weren't defending any parties. Therefore, a colleague could also publicly apologize for the words he has spoken. If he sees the Homeland War like that, I don't see him like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62395	Mr. Vidovic, I, in the name of tolerance, have traveled you to speak. But it has nothing to do with Article 238, because my colleague Misic, he gave his opinion as much as you do. ... I insult that demeanor, Mr. Vid, as I said, I let you speak. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But if, now, about some forms of insult and demeaning, if we were to react every time to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, we weren't here just dealing with it while there was such a business. There wasn't much of an insult. All right, I let you talk, everybody heard, let's move on. Okay? Mr. Djakic. Here you go. On behalf of HDZ... The answer to the replica? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah. Replication response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62396	So, Your Honor, there are, technology is a powerful thing, it's with you, you're not in HDZ yet, but I'm going to type on that you're going to enter HDZ because you're a good prototype you're for the right one,... You insult me, but you do me good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, sir, if you're going to listen to this first, that I've shared HDZ defenders, I've never said that. Okay, we'll look for a transcript. You will, therefore, give me the right, as a werewolf defender, as the 9th month prisoner of Serbian concentration camps. You, sir, have probably never been to prison physiologically, so you don't know what it looks like, but I can tell you from the first hand how awful it is to be a prisoner of the camp. And I have the right, for that reason, to believe I have the right to be critical of something, I do not want Croatian defenders to feel like the parasites of this society, but as something best in this society. And since you're asking what I did during my term, just like this couple to fire you. I established the National War Memorial Center in Vukovar, I wrote the Law on Victims of Sexual Abuse in the Homeland War, I established a veteran home in Lipik, I published a register of Croatian defenders as the proudest and most honorable list Croatian defenders can make. You want some more? Come back later and I'll give you a history lesson.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62397	I'll give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'll listen to you, but I would ask you to have a heated discussion, we consider a heated debate. Here you go. Turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62398	Excuse me. I thank you, I also want to say that colleague Fred Matic, injured the Rules of Procedure under Rule 238, and I also want to say on the basis of everything said in everything he is right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62399	See, that's one of those things that makes this Parliament weird. That was ironic. But the irony, in my opinion, is not in place, because my colleague Fred Matic did not hurt anyone, he expressed his opinion. It is hard, but it has its opinion, as well as Mr. Misic. Let's move on, Mr. Djakic, please give your opinion. Here's the opinion and opinion of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I will present the opinion of the HDZ Club which will, of course, support this law that has done so on the committee as I have read, as all MPs who attended the Committee on War Veterans who live with this law, who want this law and who in this law recognise the benefits for rights, acquired the rights of those who gave the most to the country of Croatia, which are Croatian defenders, for their freedom, sovereignty and independence. I believe that there is a common sense of strength regardless of the recommendations we make that we can find together what will be satisfactory and stop, as I have many times said, being the subject of any manipulation, of any political crackdown, of either sub-tasting or of pouring oil on fire. I don't want it today, I want to be the one who in common with all those who recognize this law the benefits of Croatian defenders and members of their family to bring it together, to vote it out, to apply it because that would be constitutionally as required at certain times should once again be the consent of all, should... the amendment of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law and the adoption of the Constitutional Law. So all MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament need to agree to do so. We are aware and we see that in the first reading, he was not, although even on the first reading committee, the bill was unanimously passed, and so today it is unanimous. But we can see there's a club in the assembly that won't support it. We realize that going with something that can't go through, can't be achieved by a two-thirds majority, we understand that we can't even demand it today. If there was an agreement, if there were any reason with this law, they would not change it anymore, they would not supplement it, they would not modify it, they would not be the subject of debate in the Croatian Parliament, neither under tent, nor on the street, nor in protests, or anywhere else. But here's what's there. It has been two months since the debate on the proposal for a law on Croatian defenders in the first reading and members of their families and today we are where we are at the opportunity to discuss the final bill and we do so. We do that who, some with more sensitivity to Croatian defenders, some with fewer, some with remarks, some with demands, some with facts, and some with no understanding of any articles. And now we want to bring it in so that the defenders and members of their families who have met in daily life with problems and who have made clear through these working groups, all representatives of associations who are not only ordinary defenders, but the people from the profession who have worked day and night, complemented, corrected, suggested, together with the Ministry of Croatian Defence, with the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labour, Ministry of Pension Systems and others, were involved in the roof organisations from the Homeland War at the head of 100% people with disabilities, that detailed analysis was carried out at the Ministry of the Croatian Defence, so that the problems of unsettled regulation and other shortcomings of the existing legislative framework as best defined and to find the best solutions, and that was spent hours and hours, as I said, days and days today, are before us, the final draft laws that define solutions of time and time. Many of the warriors were also minors, including women, in the Homeland War. They were not recognised as Croatian defenders according to the legislation so far. volunteers, especially minors. This law clearly defines their status of rights arising from it. Many Croatian defenders from the Homeland War were lucky so they did not get hurt, they were not wounded. These people today commit and raise their families on their own, these people unfortunately, under the laws so far, had almost no right except for the last dispatch. Let us remember a number of situations where only a rare right to take advantage of employment is denied. This law significantly changes that attitude and introduces solutions such as early retirement as well as the evaluations of their participation in the Homeland War. So the evaluation of participation in the Homeland War will be for early retirement, as well as for evaluation through the battle sector of the increase in points. The public raised the question of the regularity of the provisions of Article 1 c, which is in line with the Declaration on the Homeland War in this final draft of the law. The point of Article 1 reads "Croatian Homeland War defenders defended and defended the Republic of Croatia within internationally recognised borders against the armed aggression committed by Serbia, Montenegro and JNA with an armed rebellion of part of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia". And I think that's what the declaration says is that it's quite enough to define who was the Croatian defender and who was the aggressor to the Republic of Croatia. It is not good when the debate on the bill governing the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families includes those who pass law on the persecution of Croatian defenders, those who were aggressors, those who are self-initiatively called judges, even at the time when the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes rules against them. But much worse than that, when some in Croatia follow arbitrary references addressed to Croatian and Croatian defenders and consider whether there is any truth in this. In relation to the draft law we discussed in the first reading, the applicant accepted a series of remarks made in the debate. It may also be an indication that the fundamental goal is to reach consensus on the issue of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and that there should be no divergence between us on this subject, at least important divergences. And I call on all together to think one more time, regardless of what clubs have said, that all those with the status of Croatian defenders see in this law the improvement, progress, comprehensiveness and unity. So they should uniquely act truly as heroes of the Homeland War, really as warriors who deserve to have the law that this Croatian Parliament is about to pass, it would be nice if it were brought unanimity. It would be a preoccupation, it would be a sign that we'd break up with a ridiculous, unfounded accusation, debates and replicas that don't lead to anything. This law regulates status rights, pensions, health care, related rights, employment and labour rights, compensation for unemployed Croatian defenders and members of their families, housing, education, as well as other rights such as housing in social care institutions. Advantage in the lease of business space, the re-use of agricultural land, the allowance for house assistance, the right to compensation for the cost of personal car adjustment, the right to psychosocial assistance, the defence thank-you point, the graves, the cost of burial, the separate honours, the maintenance of graves, and the final strengthening of the regional units of the Croatian Defence Ministry as the real need observed on the ground, because the offices of the state administration did not do their job well enough. I would like this law to be adopted by consensus on the well-being of Croatian defenders so that there will be no more politicisation or political bickering. Then we could really separate, and we'll also decide after this vote and pass laws on who is their mother's Croatian defenders and who is their stepmom. So once again, I ask you colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the HDZ Club that this is good, positive and accept as the real thing that the Croatian Parliament and its representatives reward, confirm that Croatian defenders are the creators of freedom, sovereignty and independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62401	Thank you, too. We have four replicas. First Mr. Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62402	Thank you, Vice President. Your colleague Djakic has been called on several times in his presentation to pass the law unanimously. I can tell you why I can't vote for this law. Not because I think the dead and the children or the families of the dead should not have pensions, not because I think that anything should be denied to the missing or their families, not because I think that the children of Croatian defenders who are today are people that they should be denied anything is not about it. So I am for having everyone's right and I believe you all the people sitting in this House are for it, don't share us with who's the mother and who's the stepmother of the Croatian defenders. I'm not voting for this bill because he's deeply socially irresponsible, because of it. According to him, I'm exercising greater rights, I can now retire as a Croatian defender, now I can do a number of other things, but I don't want to. I don't want the moment we have hundreds of thousands blocked. I don't want at the moment when our economy is growing 2.9% instead of 6, and our interest on loans is 6%, and we know that our debt is gross product. That's why I don't want to. I don't just regret it if there's no money, there's no money, and there's no need to make it up, because when we make it up money, it's such a thing that when you make it up in the end in a few years, you're going to have to invent a large amount of it that's impossible or you're going down, you're going to fail. That's why I'm not voting for this law. He's deeply socially irresponsible and unfair.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62403	Thank you very much. Thank you. Time. Mr. Djakic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, I must tell you that I am disappointed with you because I have seen in you a man who recognizes the needs of Croatian defenders and you have discussed these very issues with us on the board many times. You've been discreet many times and proposed constructive proposals. You've stood up for what's right many times. I would commend you today that you have done so because you have no reason to be justified in drawing criticism of this law. This law divides no one, neither us into parties, nor us to citizens more or less, divides us into none, but rewards those who gave themselves to their country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62405	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62406	Comrade Djakic, of course we are interested in all that we have a whole law and that it would be best to bring it together. But here I am just going to tell you these remarks that sting your eyes. She's changing the historical facts. It means we can't let it always come down to the defenders. The fact is we are waiting tomorrow for the verdict of the generals, our defenders in The Hague, the HVO and the Croatian Army. I think it's the same body. I personally spent a year in Bosnia on the battlefield, and I am proud of that because the Croatian military defended the examples,... He stopped Srebrenica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, why the change of this act to... They did not make BiH paramilitary troops with the help of a large number of members of the Serb national minority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I stress that all summer we've been dealing with this past with 11 honorary defenders of the Homeland War, the Hos, who was a legitimate unit, while we're here dealing with this monument, while we're throwing out Serbian Serb, Serb troops here. I think that this is the height of the Homeland War and that this historical fact in this second reading cannot be changed. And at the same time there are monuments of the Shocker and the rest of the Chetniks. We can't let the Wolf or anyone dictate historical facts because it's the Wolf in '91. The year with Seselj wanted to turn Croatia into a Greater Serbia, to remain only one part of Zagreb. I think that these historical facts and games with people regardless of where they were, HOS, ZNG, MUP, that all these people are the same, that we have to treat them like this and not let them change the historical facts, this law is now changing in this reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62407	Thank you very much, thank you. Replication response, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62408	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Bull, we understand you're politicizing on exactly what you don't need. It is clearly defined who is the aggressor and where it comes from. From Serbia, Montenegro, JNA and part of the rebel Serb population because by measuring, I last spoke but went to check, measuring those reports I found in... The centre on the 64,000 Serb province military, which was called somehow with these lists and signatures, cannot be reached by a majority part of the Serb people who participated in an armed rebellion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this definition is actually the best, and it doesn't demean anyone but it doesn't prejudge anyone. God forbid that I would succumb to Vucic's statements, to his pressures, because I am aware that he is a small Chetnik duke who declared Glina and part of it all the way to Zagreb to Serbia and everything is clear to me both for him and for Nikolic as well as for all those who participated and subsidists were armed insurgency in the Republic. Just as they were aggressors, so don't put a burden on anyone that we've never kneeled before anyone in Bosnia or in Croatia, and we'll never, as long as we live, believe me, neither do I. That is why it is not necessary to politicise over these piantiries that actually mean nothing and cannot actually get Serbia out because it is the first to be placed as an aggressor on the Republic of Croatia to defend Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62409	Thank you. Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62410	You call for unity, and then in that same sentence you share us and you say now you'll see who's the mother and who's the stepmother and you're still illogical. There's no non-conflict society. You say let's vote this together so that there's no more politics about it, no more politicizing. There is no such unconflict society. Yes, it's the society of one mind. It's totalitarian systems. And that's what you're actually calling for. On the totalitarian system in which the values will be pre-set, they are... They must not be questioned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You like the extension of war by other means, and this law is nothing more than an extension of war by other means. Keeping the atmosphere of war because in that atmosphere you feel safe. It is quite clear that the defenders of this law are taking hold of themselves from general poverty, what will be left of others, so why do they care? So why do you care about Bear, so why do you care? Will others be able to survive when the defenders take everything? Well, that's none of their business. This atmosphere of oneness that you call upon is the atmosphere of war that you extend, it's one political spin, it's politics and it's demagogy because you need it for your political excess values.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62411	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62412	Thank you very much, Vice President. What do I tell you? Don't let God make me call on one-witnesses. I was one of the first ones against it. Yes, the discussion of the facts was held, counseling was conducted from a month of law. For a year and a half, we agreed between associations and those who participated with 11 teams of various political options. We've finished our first reading and there's been time for a democratic debate on all the facts. You weren't on any board because you came and went, you didn't want to get involved in it to say look at it wrong, but it's still too maybe or too little here. Or let's define this differently, you know that, you're skilled at it. I call on you to stop talking about the law, so you don't have to deal with the War Veterans Committee anymore. And that may be one reason for Croatian defenders to be satisfied, so that they will no longer break spears, so that there will be no more protests in the future. Here's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62413	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62414	Thank you very much. I do not think that there is a need to call on the other side to vote for this Law on Croatian Defence because they have always misdetermined their relationship with defenders in my view in some way. And when they had the chance to work on the benefit of that population, they always chose the wrong way and they went into dealing with these people, dealing with that population, and after that, they were all to blame but they weren't, and they didn't mean anything by it, they did anything wrong. They always define their position in relation to the defenders depending on which position they are in or what they think at some point. So they don't have one line that goes from beginning to end and follows a certain sequence of events. We heard this and I heard a colleague on behalf of the SDP club, and now that I hear some of his statements, let's say that statement when he justified why the book called nothing fake I found her, says when reformed communists came to power in 2000, they said false defenders, fake disableds, fake war, everything was fake and I was in the Defense Department. So I gave the book the title “Nothing False. ” So we have one relationship that depends on the current position of each of them. I think we're different here. We have entered this mandate clearly on the government's four-year programme and page 31 clearly states how we will treat Croatian defenders. This law today that we have in our second reading follows those policies that we feel we have the full right to propose it and everyone about it can say what they want and vote on how they think they need to. Maybe it's a good idea for them to stay on that side again, not to accept this law, to interpret to everyone what they've imagined. 'Cause the fact is, there's a colleague who insulted her here from a lawyer's pay phone. Now he's got a powerful verdict, he's got to pay some price for falsely speaking and of course he can't understand these people, and the defenders because it's kind of a start when they're on the wrong foot.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62415	Time, Mr. Boric. Other than that, at least while this Rules of Procedure should replicate the one who spoke, not the one who replicated it before. Yeah, I know, but you quoted whoever replicated it before. I let you go because I let everyone go. Mr. Djakic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, we've witnessed everything you've said. There are witnesses alive who have followed it all, remembered, left deep in their memory every detail, every insult, every change, every rule-making and law, every change of government that happened twice to Croatian defenders, Croatian police officers. It's all seen. I am just because it would never happen again and not to go to some radical debate about what was left on this one human friendly call, the invitation to those who were Croatian defenders and those who respect Croatian defenders. That was my goal, my preoccupation, and today I still have it, and today it's going to stay tomorrow. It is written that they have had the opportunity to be with this law which is good, which is written with all oscillations in line with all associations of national level, sanded and within the limits of opportunity. I'm going to call them one more time, regardless of your appeal to be with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62417	Thank you very much. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62418	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates, he is not here, his colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that GLAS and HSU will not support the proposal of this law because of a whole series of elements that make this law immoral, discriminatory, socially irresponsible, fiscally inappropriate and unfair. He has no doubt the result of political pressure from an interest group that, past democratic institutions and elections, seeks to establish as political authority, determine who will be in power and government, which this government and this Parliament are allowed to do and what they cannot do, what laws they can propose and pass and what they do not. And not only that, but what journalists are allowed to write and speak, which they can ask their guests, which TV shows they can't show. Which and what films are allowed to be made in us and at the end of what theatres are allowed to show, and what scientists should write and explore, and what they should not. The law is deeply immoral because instead of values such as the right to work, creativity, human creativity, self-esteem and patriotism puts something else entirely in the first place, and that is the dependence of citizens on the social support of the state. He promotes a category that kills the moral essence of a democratic society, an advanced society in the depths. It tells citizens to put them in a very immoral doubt that it is much smarter to be socially dependent on the state than to earn and achieve, to build your own self-respect through your own work and your own ability because, starting with having different predispositions in the lives of the country's tasks, it is to provide everyone with equal chances and to go from not everyone to everyone, but each opening up the possibility of affirmation to every man regardless of his capacities, but in the possibilities in which he is able to develop these capacities. The whole idea of caring for people who are depressed, who are in one way or another damaged, including physically, mentally, therefore, who are persons with disabilities, is to safeguard their dignity and treat them with respect, and to allow them self-esteem, not compassion, not compassion. This law ignores it. And despite the proposer's use of words that should mean something sublime, they're actually ringing very pathetic because they ultimately don't produce this law with either dignity or respect. The public must know that out of the 5 hundred thousand people who have been introduced into the Croatian Defence Register, not all of them are primarily alive. 390,000 Croatian defenders do not exercise any permanent financial rights. And when we talk about an interest group, we must never lose sight of that these interests are not the interests of the defense population, but only one small segment. 390,000 people are neither Croatian military disabled, nor in any other way wanted or could under current law create any financial right. They're taxpayers, they're workers, pensioners, craftsmen, they live off their work. This law will, when adopted, and there is no doubt about it because those who are in most need of the votes of those to whom this law applies will, for example, be applied between 50 and 60 years. So will all those who have the right to vary, or who will have different rights under this law. Ipso, in fact, the biologically viewed number of right users under this law should be exponentially falling, and the proposer goes from the fact that it will increase exponentially. So, totally insane. So it's the creation of addicts from those who aren't at the moment. So the programmed and elaborate expansion of the base and the number of those going to go to the welfare of this country was called one or the other. It is amazing, then, that 22 years after the official end of the Homeland War, we come with a law that predicts the exponential growth of the number of users of services or rights under this law. I'd like someone to explain to me how this is possible, unless the concept by which rights will actually be shelled is used, and they no longer have anything to do with the dignity of the Homeland War, or with the fighters, or with the defenders, or with the Croatian military disabled. It's another story, but it's supposed to be spoken of so everyone understands it. In the assessment, the initial assessment of the fiscal impact of this law by the legislators focused on 8 years and on the obligations made and for which estimates were made exponentially growing in those 8 years. It is the impression that so far Croatian defenders and members of their families have been disproved, that the state has been insolent, that the Croatian Parliament has not passed good laws, that the government has treated them as a stepmother and that this law will finally change its attitude towards those most responsible for Croatian freedom and independence. Then let's stay for an eight-year period, but also in current condition. The Croatian public should know that 55.7 billion kuna will be paid from 2018 to 2025 on behalf of pensioners only. This will require 39 billion kuna and 500 million kuna, and the remainder of around 16.2 billion alimony of the contributions paid by those who work will be estimated at around 16.2 billion. What's it like after years? The starting point is in 2017 in which the total cost of Croatian defenders' pensions is therefore disbursed for those who have not so far enjoyed dignity and who have been deprived of dignity and pride is 5 and a half billion. In 2025, at the annual level, it will be 8.3 billion kuna. This should therefore be said that in these 8 years, taxpayers will, in addition to what they have been given, pay another 3.75 billion kuna in the current law only for the achievement of pension rights. To this should be added another cost of around 2 billion kunas of other rights created or raised under the new law. So more than five and a half billion kunas will have to be provided more under this law than would be provided by law by now. And as long as it takes, I've already said that. In addition to the final draft law, the defence ministry left out the assessment of fiscal responsibility. Faced with public reactions, it was likely regrettable that the fiscal responsibility assessment had taken place with the first reading. So in order not to forget what it said in the brochure printed by the Minister of the Medveda, I just remind you that the introduction of unemployment benefits in 2018 in the state budget will therefore have to be secured in 2018. 104 million kuna. In the introduction of a higher amount of the minimum pension in 2018, 64 million kuna will be additionally needed but to the amount already secured in the 2017 budget, so it will only be transferred to the 2018 budget to bring together the 170 million and 64 million. By reducing the age limit for retirement in 2019, the state budget will cost 25 million kuna. The right to a family pension under the new law will actually cause an additional 67 million kuna commitments. We're talking about 2019. For the implementation of the rights of systematic examinations for all Croatian war troops, or for all Croatian defenders every 3 years, I assume that it will be alimony by 1/3 each year, so that every year it will go 1/3, 20 million kuna should be provided annually for the exercise of this right. The medical rehabilitation introduced under the new law will cost 7.3 million more. The financial impact assessment to open a period of recognition of the status of Croatian defenders will cost about 3 million more for the disability pension, and another 6 million kuna for the personal disability. Furthermore, the law extended the right to take advantage of employment and tax relief for employers who employ children of the dead and missing Croatian defenders, the assessment of the indirect financial impact is 2 million kuna. The assessment of the financial impact of pension labour rights will be an additional 41 million kuna, etc., etc. The right to an attorney will be applied to the burden of the state budget of defenders for the purpose of criminal proceedings in connection with the action of the Homeland War. The impact assessment is 10 million kuna. It wasn't my intention to bid numbers here. No hand, no eye, no life, no smile can be expressed in money. But who did it? Those who have offered an honorable man to express their honor in money and in doubt whether to remain on his feet solid, stable, capable of working, capable of contributing as much as he can, an active citizen of his community, freely thinking about the man, the one who creates and who is the model or that for a certain amount becomes inactive, to expose himself to risks of unemployment and social addiction to the state. In this second situation, political corruption, elites that are not up to talking about the future of the nation and sports betting office will profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62419	Thank you, too. You have three replicas. First Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Beus, you're on your way to attack. First of all, I would say incorrectly according to this law, according to all the associations that participated in it, and represent the defence population as a whole. If you knew what you said only that it was immoral, that it was fiscally unsustainable, that it was a fruit of pressure from stakeholders. So all defense associations are interested in you. Well, you might be ashamed of that. And if you knew who you were defending in reality, defend the Republic of Serbia since it has accepted the special conditions and criteria that Croatia has imposed on the victims to pay for the damage. It's in special conditions and criteria and you're defending it to make it easier for them in the future to do so today. Because by not thinking with your head you create such a climate in Croatia that we are a burden to society instead of being a burden to those who have committed aggression to the Republic of Croatia. That is the truth that the ministry and Prime Minister Plenkovic put into spatial criteria when negotiations with Serbia were opened, damages to the victims. The discovery of the missing, the five things that have been put in place, I can't avoid them, and I can't until they sign and the commission decides they'll collect the damage. Who are you defending?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62421	Well, you have the right to answer, of course, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62422	Thank you very much. Who am I defending? I defend the citizens of this country from a worse future than their past, defend their right to work, dignity and dignity. I defend their self-esteem and the need to see each other better than themselves as role models and not that those they thought were better than them will be worse than them tomorrow. I'd listen to your arguments, and I'd appreciate it if you weren't the president of HVIDR to whom Ivo Sanader himself wrote a list of members of HVIDRA's leadership. It wasn't up to you. It was him. So the politicization of those on behalf of whom you speak has compromised every credibility of what they say because they have turned them into protectors of party interests. And if you don't know the definition of interest groups, that's not my problem. Each association, as well as a defense group, is an interesting group. It gathers a certain interest as it gathers both HVIDRA and every other association. It is legitimate to represent the interests of its members but it is not legitimate when the interests of these members try to be shown as interests of half a million people or most people who create and do something to this country, it is not legitimate. But it's our job to say yes, we've listened to your arguments and for everything this country needs to worry about, it will. But you know what I'm going to tell you, Mr. Djakic? Yesterday little Lorena went to Lintz because the state didn't have 60,000 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62423	Mr. Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62424	Thank you. You rightly tell your colleague, Beus Richembergh, that this law comes under the pressure of an interested group, that is, let's call them openly, it's a group of tentacles and dignitaries. They defend the dignity of the Homeland War without being attacked by anyone. And in fact, there was a political gathering that had a clear goal, and they wrote it there. They'll both fall. The prime minister of the then legally elected and legally elected president was to be brought down. The funds weren't chosen. Threats, gas bottles, miracles. Marches around Zagreb. Attacking the police doesn't matter. One hand terror. They do not represent the entire defence population, however, 350,000 are those who are not under tents and who have not threatened anyone, these are the people who have returned from the war, hired, worked, for a small salary, perhaps insufficient, but they do not raise tents, they do not bring out gas bottles, they are silent and work. Minister Bear doesn't think about their dignity. He doesn't care about their dignity. They're not his, but these, they're as if they represent the entire defense population even though it's far from that. They not only now take care of their personal interests, personal, that single group, but they want to terrorize the whole society in a way that determines everything, they attacked Stankovic because he asked a question. Imagine attacking a journalist, so his job is to ask questions. No, he can't be asked questions about everything. Not about the character of the Homeland War and of course not about them and their rights that are now increasing and what will be the result? An increase in budgets and a new borrowing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62425	Thank you, thank you. Answer, Mr. Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62426	Unfortunately for me, colleague Stazic, you and I are old enough to remember some times when the same things were happening. I was the chairman of the publishing council of Paulette. At the time when Pollet was a free press, a liberal flash in the sky of Croatian Journalism and at every session of this publishing council I had to listen to the advice and demands of SUBNOR's who should and shouldn't write and promote Paulette. So the times haven't changed much, unfortunately. But you know what I'm going to tell you, fellow Stazic? When you mention the tent, the street and the gas, that's our fault. There are those of us today who speak soberly and those who went out to lick themselves, who went up there, who thought that their voices and their supporters were there. And then actually humiliating themselves and the ideas they're talking about actually reduced the credibility of the political message both at the left center and on the left. But I hope that this school, since the fools are learning on their own and smart in other people's mistakes, that this school will be able to teach all of us who are involved in politics and who are from the liberal center or on the left as already who is trying to counter this totalitarian attack that this country would have one leader and one party, one truth, one history, all of it, and everything for itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62427	Thank you very much. I made one mistake. I gave my word to Mr. Stazic before I gave Mrs. Jelkovac the first one to look for a replica, so I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62428	It's all right. Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you are always speaking in your debate about how this law protects stakeholders or the interests of certain associations. So you do it on purpose. I don't believe you've read the law. The law speaks of all Croatian defenders. It seems to me that's exactly what you're doing on purpose to create a division in this society and in the population of Croatian defenders. It's inadmissible for me. Well, I think we're all supposed to be unique in this assembly today. You're saying this law is deeply immoral and unethical. What is deeply immoral and unethical in this law? That there are open deadlines for recognising the new status of military invalids? Well, I have to tell you, I was working as a post-war reference officer on these issues. Not everyone's filed any demands. The deadline has been abolished and many have remained unfulfilled statuses. And what is immoral about these people who are in trouble today opening up the possibility of gaining their status? What is immoral in recognising the status of volunteers and the status of Croatian defenders to members of the National Protection? We all know that the first defence in the Republic of Croatia was organized through national protection. What is immoral if we allow those Croatian defenders who are today, living on the edge, social cases without any income, which is immoral if we allow these people to have a minimum, minimum for a decent life, if we provide them with benefits for the unemployed or if we give them conditions for retirement that are more favourable to those who have been so far? What's immoral and unethical about it? Let's not do politics over this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62429	Thank you. You were right for a second. Thank you very much. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62430	Dear colleagues, I must confess that I expected more from you, first of all, from you to listen actively. So in my speech, I didn't mention defense associations for one single time. For the first time, I mentioned it in the replica of my colleague Djakic. So, I don't know what you're referring to. I've been talking about stakeholders, and the fact that you've defined these stakeholders as defense groups, I'm sorry, that's your subconscious. I wasn't talking about the unethicalness of this law at all. I'm talking about immorality. You've introduced it as a category and thank you very much. So it is also unethically one of the elements why this law should not be adopted. No, it's not unethical much of what you said, because you actually represent it from one cancerist person who cares. You want to show yourself as a person who cares about these people's rights as if they've been decommissioned so far. You know the logic of things would be next. XY people who use these rights unfortunately will disappear biologically, but until they disappear we keep the upper level of those rights that those who stay have more and better, because living conditions will change and hope that we all live better in 5 or 10 years. So why don't they have more rights that stay and stay with us in that community? But that's not the logic. No, that upper limit rises to heaven. I tell you in a situation where children, 10 children in Croatia who have the most specific possible diagnosis cannot go into surgery because it cannot be performed in Croatia. In that situation talking about extending the right of any of us here is not correct. It is not correct because the fiscal stability and sustainability of this country should be put on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62431	Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. I would ask you now if we can, things can be said in 100 ways and since now Mr. Dodig is coming, which I know will be the most correct, that he will use the most correct termology possible then refers to everything including me. Let's use one termology that's appropriate in all of this. And around the stakeholders, I don't know why the interest group has to be a negative category. That we all forgot the basics of Marxism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62432	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. I don't know what you mean by being correct and not using the terminology that might hurt someone. I'm honestly saying, and that's how you put me already in a position, Yeah, yeah. [[I wanted to say something nice.]] Unfortunately, however, good things do not happen in this House, so the question is, does it always make sense to speak nicely? I'm not even going to be registered for a hearing because it seems to me that if we argue that we will be discussing the law, and not that the law will be taken as a basis for dealing with something else or with someone else. And so I came forward to ask a fundamental question about who this law applies and what period in Croatia's recent history and what period of life of certain people to whom this law applies? So let's try to think about what it means to be a volunteer in 1999, which means to go out in public with a hunting rifle, with a tennis tank, stand in front of a tank, which means to be a 91st defender, which means to go into the unknown and face your own ignorance, your own disorganization when you're driven only by a desire to defend your people, your territory, your own country, which was a risk and what a risk it was. If something had happened differently, if the outcome had been different, today many of these people would not be alive. Which means in 91, 92, 93 as a minor, he appears in the army and is exposed to grenades, bullets, camps, etc. And today for the administrative reasons of this or the guilt of this or that, this or that, this or not government today that the children of that time and today adults have neither the status of defenders. So does it make sense to do something to make it right? Does it make sense, does it make sense to extend the deadline for the occurrence of diseases that can be caused by a causal relationship with war events and war traumas? There was a colleague here who had problems with it. I'd like you to now while they're having this problem with me, but at a professional level rather than a political one. Those who say it doesn't matter are medically ignorant and this isn't an insult to MPs. This is the profession, gentlemen. This is the profession. When it's said that some kind of diabetes will occur, then it's usually people who don't know what diabetes is except that it's increased blood sugar, they don't know anything else about it. And I know something about it. The question arises what is the work of finally, finally the work of these people that I've numbered volunteers in tennis shoes with hunting rifles standing in front of tanks a thousand miles in a thousand miles of walking in the snow? What is the work of these minors? What is the work of those thousands who have died and what are the consequences? The work is free Croatia as democratic as it was but Croatia is to be built. Their work is the freedom we have today and thanks to them and we are sitting here today in the Parliament. Take that down to the purely fiscal concept that we're talking about here, it's gentlemen immoral, immoral. On one occasion, I told this speaker that Dante in the 9th circle of hell puts ingrates. The work of these people is that today all Croatian citizens can have a chance and work, and travel and prove themselves at work. Unfortunately, many of them are unable to work, unable to be on a market that is uncompromising. They're not capable of the parents of those people who died taking flowers to their graves because they don't even know where they are. The work of these people is also the crying brothers and sisters, and relatives and friends for those who are not there and the work of these people is that families of these people live very often today in conditions of unrest, dissatisfaction and undoing that work in different ways. Today we have come into a situation to look at it from a completely different perspective, from the perspective of freedom, the perspective of a warm room, television, cake and ice cream at least parliamentary representatives and to moralise here whether this law is unethical or not, whether this is moral or not. If at any time you suspected that this law was immoral, you wouldn't be for him. What bothers me in this law, I must say, because of my deep responsibility precisely because of the financial aspect of this law, the defenders, or their family members of the HVO, are suspended within a year. I'm hoping that maybe even before that year, they'll try to make it right. I understand this very responsibility of yours, but I ask you that the parents of the dead, deadly defenders in Bosnia and Herzegovina who were an integral part of the defenders, Croatian defenders whose contribution to achieving Croatian freedom is immeasurable to make it right as soon as possible because many of these parents will not be welcomed here in 2019. So instead of fighting to budget that in this House is thinking about how to deploy money and give to those who deserve it the most, we're talking about them today. Speaking of them, gentlemen, we are talking about the foundation of the Croatian state and this foundation of the Croatian state we are having problems with. This has not happened in any country in this world to speak of defenders in this way. Therefore, if there is a reason why we must all stand still when we talk about Croatian defenders, when we talk about the Homeland War, then it is precisely the status of Croatian defenders. I'm asking you to keep that in mind. If everything was ideal in that part, it's just not because we're people, but I'd like them to say it to their faces, now he's not here with Gyri Glogoski to look at it and tell them to look those kids in the eyes that are already adults who don't know where their parents' graves are. I was lucky on the one hand, on the other hand, that I was in daily contact with Croatian defenders with all those who passed the battlefields, with prisoners, with the exchange of prisoners who were in the camp, talking to Ratko Mladic and exchanging prisoners with him and I know what they looked like when they came from these camps. I know what the Croatian defenders who were exchanged on December 12th 91st in Boka Kotorska looked like in 146. I ran that exchange with Greek Rhodes 2. I wish all those people who talk about this law today saw those faces, saw those bruises and scars on those people's bodies, saw what was drawn on their faces, and years later, the consequences. Unfortunately, if there's a reason why I'm unhappy with this, it's too little to be given to the defense attorneys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62433	Thank you, too, Dr. President. Dodig. You have two replicas. First Mr. Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62434	Thank you, Vice President. In your presentation, you often knew what it means to be a volunteer of the Homeland War, meaning 90, 91 in jeans, to defend Croatia's state, which means the risk after all when you don't know what will happen, whether the country will defend itself or not. We all used to ask ourselves that question sometimes, but no matter what, our defenders and our people stood up for defense and bare-handed watching what we had. In one story there will be new defenders. Yeah, I'm sure there's gonna be new defenders who didn't want to retire, who didn't ask for anything from this country, and today they're working with me at the firm. They didn't ask for anything from this state. I hope when they retire they have some reward on it. You mentioned the ignorant. They knew what was going on, they just did, and they know what's going on today, but they don't accept it. A colleague mentioned earlier the rights of defenders and the rights of money, how much money is being allocated to the defenders. It's embarrassing to say in this House, to mention the rights of defenders and money. They may have earned it 10 times more, but the Croatian state does not have that power. But someone wouldn't give them what they deserved. I wonder here in this House how many people who really love this Croatian state sit around and love this thing that's been defended? I'm afraid a lot of them don't like them and they don't want them to have the pleasant life they deserve, they deserve this people to love Croatian defenders. He really loves them. But the words of the opposite come out of here. It's embarrassing in this House. Thank you for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62435	Thank you. Time. Thank you very much. Time. Replication response. Here you go. Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62436	I don't know what to say. I agree with a lot of things. I always want to find an excuse for what is bad, and even at this point, it might be good to interpret what is happening today in the Assembly and the attitude towards Croatian defenders as a result of a systematic campaign against Croatian defenders, so people under the influence of this information began to think differently. I can't go from assuming that someone doesn't love this Croatian state because it has brought him a lot, to everyone, and to those who are. They are probably influenced by this negative information that we are permanently threatened and permanently exposed to. Finally you have in the latest trend of understanding the actions of stakeholders who do not like this country, it is legitimately foreign states and foreign or large companies so-called. hybrid warfare used in misinformation, so I believe it's the result of misinformation that they don't know. That's why they should listen to those who know what war was. To listen to Tom Bear who has passed, to listen to those wounded, sick, their families, their children, how they have experienced and what the consequences of that war have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62437	Thank you, too. Mrs. Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62438	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, thank you for mentioning Dante and the ingratitude, I think you've chosen the right word for everything that's been discussed about this law, from some people, and if you've been out there or seen a flower in the lapel, mac, in Britain and in that part of the world, then you'll see how much respect these people actually hold to their deaths in all the wars in which no English or Irish or Irish or Scots have died. So, and we're not able to even express our satisfaction, that at least this way we can thank for everything that we've got from people who are here and without legs and without hands or anything else. And we take it all down to that material trivial actually side, instead of, that here, from my own experience I can say, in the '90s when my husband and his brothers went into suspense, when they were just with guns like that, what you said to hunting and were among the hundred people who could hang out on pillars the next day, precisely because they were the ones who recognized who knew they had to create and defend their own country. And they didn't ask for anything in return. And how many of those were there? And then we take it down to something unethical and material. That's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62439	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62440	Yeah, that's true, but you gave me the opportunity to say something else even though I said something in part about it. Namely, to view the defense population as a total unscathed population, which should work, earn, is very unethical. To view the defensive population and the defenders as the only one, those who were defenders, who were wounded is unethical. Sometimes it's psychic trauma, more severe than physical trauma. And all those who think that psychological trauma can't occur 20 years after a traumatic event, they don't know what it's about. To live through all those fears, all those who were in war or those who were not, I would allow them, just one experience, to be under the vibrating of the VBR that they were sure that nothing would happen to them, just to live through that experience, two minutes, seconds, seconds, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62441	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. In front of live wall representative and SNAGA, Mr. Bunjac, Dr. Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62442	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Dear guests, we have a second reading on Croatian defenders. It was an exhaustive debate during the first reading. I wouldn't repeat myself now, given everything I said in my first reading, I believe some have heard. In the end, there's a phonogram. I see that in the ministry, in their explanation, they mentioned this speech of mine, so they remembered what I said, so today you would concentrate on just a few more details, given that the Living Wall and SNAGA Club is going to submit an amendment to this law. I would like to say once again, that Croatian defenders deserve absolutely all rights, respect, as well as other defenders in the world, because defending their homeland is a great honor, a great pleasure, fulfilling a man with good memories, giving him one calm conscience, and in some way, it is something that is remembered, not only throughout life, but also remembers generations that come. So, I repeat again to the Croatian defenders, members of the HVO, their children, disabled, missing, the prisoners should be given all rights. That's how it has to be. Not because it would be something specific for Croatia, but because it has been since the world and the century. You have... 2,500 years ago, to this day, practically the same rights that must be given to the defenders of their homeland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But one thing I mentioned in the debate during the first reading, which now appears and beyond, because it has not been resolved is the question since when did the Homeland War last? So there's no war on the globe that doesn't have a date when the war started and the war ended. We even have in the encyclopaedias a chronology of war in BiH where it clearly states that the war lasted from December 1st 1991 to December 14th 1995 until the moment the Dayton Agreement was signed. And we in Croatia besides the esteemed Academy of Science and Arts, besides I don't know the Croatian Documentation Centre next to the many institutes that we have research centres we don't know from when the Homeland War was going on, there's no such information. And it's just an amazing shame of science and history in Croatia, and then it's this law that simply doesn't indicate it anywhere. So you're talking about the Homeland War, and you don't know what period that war involves. Well, it's just something unimaginable. You have even in the official encyclopedia the fact that the war ended in November 1995, means whether it ended on November 1st or November 30th is not the same thing. World War II ended on 8th of 1945 and did not end on 9th, and the one who joined the army in 9.5.1045 did not participate in World War II did not participate because only one day after it became a soldier. And we have a situation in this law that Croatian defenders are the ones who were in the military until 30 June 1996. Now, you tell me, here it is, and Minister Bear, we also have representatives, who fought the war on 30.6.96. And where? Where was the war? In Croatia, in Bosnia? Why didn't you put a 3.7 or 22.8 on? By which criteria you have determined that 30.6 is a deadline for someone to be a Croatian defender. Why didn't you bring that up anywhere? Or for HVO, the right of the HVO had until 23.12.1996 by what? Because the other day was Christmas Eve? Why didn't you say that clearly? So by this law by which you recognise the rights of the Homeland War, and the war is not fought in either Croatia or BiH according to official data, you people who did not participate in the war give the same rights as the Vukovar defenders do. So tell me, if anyone was in Vukovar, I don't know, three months and under the rain of grenades and hungry, and thirsty, and frozen, and I don't know what kind of ammunition, without clothes, etc. in constant fear and someone served military time in some military '96. A year in peace, full, taken care of, warmed up, without fear, and now they are in the same position toward you? So I don't understand why you didn't define this question? First question, since when does the Homeland War last, please tell the public. It's been since the end of the war of 22 years, it's a normal situation in any country in the world that they know from when to when the war was going on. And the other thing, why do you give rights to people who didn't participate in the war? That someone was called a war veteran, and he didn't hear him shoot a gun or anywhere he could hear it. And what are you doing now? You give people the right to literally live on the national coat of arms, to take some pension rights, the right to education, the car, the apartments, in this way you damage the budget directly, and on the other hand you directly damage Croatian defenders who really fought in the Homeland War, you take them because we know that many Croatian defenders who are really in need don't have apartments, they don't have housing, they don't have receipts, they don't have cars and instead of letting them take care of those defenders of Vukovar, Gospić, Pakrac or others you give to people who are '96. years served a regular military deadline. That, in your opinion, is the Croatian defender. I don't know what to call it but an absurdity, by giving up what they wanted to achieve with such a status, such a time-limit for granting rights to Croatian defenders. And I doubt you'll solve it, it's already too late, of course, among other things, you mentioned there in the explanation that you would not accept it, but here I call on the Croatian public to finally answer that question. I repeat once again, when the country war is over, please nice, what day? It's known about World War II even at what time it ended. At 11:00, I mean, if I'm not mistaken. And here says Mr. Dodig and some people then that they're campaigning against the defenders, and in these moves you're actually gonna-you're not going to campaign on purpose. This is a hybrid campaign where you deliberately create an aversion to them according to this law because people simply say they weren't Croatian defenders, they weren't, and you give them rights. Every citizen of this Croatia I am convinced that 99% of Croatian citizens will say, let us give rights to Croatian defenders but let us not give these rights to those who have not earned it. And today we have 506,000 defenders and more likely to appear 50 to 100 thousand under this law, so there will be 600 thousand. And how many people attacked Croatia in '91, '92.? 80 grand. So an 80 grand army on the one hand, and on the other hand, I don't know half a million and they could beat us. Does that make sense? We all know very well that in 1991, Croatia defended several tens of thousands of people because, among other things, they had nothing to defend with and if they wanted, there were no guns, there were no armies other than infantry, any air, tanks, navy where people could still serve the army except in these infantrys and police. And according to this, as it turns out now, all men at that time, between 18 and 60 years of age, were defenders, and then we best go declare 4 million people defenders, all of whom lived in Croatia at the time are defenders. Who's the defense attorney? A man within the battle zone or a defender is someone who serves a military term or someone who was in Pula in anti-aircraft defense or sat in the Podravka crisis headquarters? And these are the defenders, here, and we know that you're from Podravka's crisis headquarters who've been sitting well at meetings, they've been taking their car privileges first. They were first in line, yeah. And, of course, part of the public is bitter about it. They're bitter. You know what the priority was supposed to be, you know what the first one was supposed to be, and you know who was the first one to push. And that some people also have those disabilityes, and they're healthier than us sitting there. So basically, in this Law on Croatian Defences should make order and then finally sit in place, but it seems that certain structures primarily in HDZ are responsible for politicising this issue, to represent this issue as we support defenders and you others do not support, to use emotions at the lowest possible level of human beings, and ultimately to unmoderately endanger them to those who are taking part in their policies and then to grant funds that are also truly too high and seriously jeopardising the budget. And you'll see, unfortunately, you too, Minister Bear, and you gentlemen of the HDZ deputies, that some structures, a small part of the defense population, and when they get all these very high rights, they won't be satisfied. It'll be two, three months and they'll ask for more. They will continue to seek and will again be dissatisfied although the budget for defenders has been increased by 1/3 compared to last year, although it is 450 million kuna more only in 2018 that will be allocated, again they will seek dissatisfaction and again they will be accused of someone, something that was against Croatian defenders, etc. And this is really already about one real policy towards policy, and that is why it would be very good to repeat once again that the defenders finally have the courage to say these are Croatian defenders and these are not also to say once how many Croatian states can submit budget funds for the defence population. I believe that no real Croatian defender would blame you for that. Every real Croatian defender who is truly fighting for the Croatian homeland primarily wants jobs in this country, that there is a perspective for young people, that there is social justice and only then is he thinking about what he will get. Every Croatian defender who puts himself first and the Croatian state second, can essentially be called politics, and these speeches that are mentioned there are not even mentioned, that must stand still while talking about defenders. Do you really think you have to stand still while talking about defenders, if you think please stand up. Please stand up. That's what we just heard from the ranks of the representatives of your ruling majority. So much for that. If this amendment is accepted, the Live Wall Representatives' Club will support the Law on Croatian Defence, otherwise we will consider remaining abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62443	Thank you. Mrs. Peric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62444	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, it's actually amazing how much banality you've been accessing from Mr. Bunjec in the defense count, so haven't you been active as a defender all along since the beginning of the '90s. Until '96. Or whatever years you want? You're not. Well, no one's been around the whole time but someone's had 10 days, some 100 days, some 1,000 and a few days, so that's the 500 and so many thousand defenders. And you're now banalizing that 500,000 defenders versus these poor 80,000 who were so helpless that they came here to our territory to destroy everything they could destroy. So our man didn't go there and destroy anything in the surrounding states where, eventually, we didn't want anything other than to defend yours and you perform in a way that's banal, that there's as much as 500 grand that could and almost in three days everything is solved. So you don't even know what you're talking about, what we had, what resources we had, what weapons, what weapons, so you really live, I don't know what time. And it's a miracle, I had a student who was in '93. He died in the middle of Velebit, and you can only imagine what it was around Zadar at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62445	Thank you for your response, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62446	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Peric, for mentioning that I can imagine, I have nothing to imagine. I watched with my own eyes what the first line of battle was. Unlike you, I've seen dead people, I've seen brushes, at least 10,000 grenades over my head. I was standing at 12 months in water to my knees for 7 days straight, I didn't eat bread, we didn't eat any cooked food, I just know very well how many people were on our side and what forces were on the other side of the food. ... You don't have to explain it to me. Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] According to this law that's in front of me now, here's my right to volunteer for the Homeland War because I went to the army and I didn't serve the JNA. And on that side, I could say here, I'm getting something now, I'm going to uphold the law right now. But it's not about me getting something or getting something else. But the thing is, in society, there is justice that only those who were part of the Homeland War have defence rights. Who was part of the Homeland War? I don't mind giving them all the rights. However, if I were a minister, as Minister of the Bear, I might give them more rights. And more rights. But I'm against people who haven't been to war enjoying any right, even the least. There. And I think that's what the vast majority of Croatian citizens think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62447	Thank you. Now in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Mr. Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62448	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support those laws. So let's go in line, we've been very constructive and in our first reading, some of our proposals have come in respect of certain changes. But given what has already been said and that I do not know how many hours we have been discussing it, I will not repeat all that this law has passed. I will only highlight some of the features that may not have been mentioned. Here's a colleague of Bunjac's talking about defenders here. People ask for this, they hear this is on TV, they hear new laws are passed, and they watch what they have now. And for defenders who have less than 100 days of combat, 100 days less in the fighting sector aren't much. They have no right outside the standard, mandatory health insurance rights, pension insurance rights, as far as they're concerned, they go under the general law except for the minimum guaranteed pension. So, as far as housing rights are concerned, they do not have, they have no right to work, especially what was there, nor the right to take advantage of employment, nor the right to compensation for the unemployed, so we are talking about defenders who have the status of Croatian defenders but do not have 100 days of combat action. And as for the other rights, so they don't count here either. Of course, there is also a large part of the people who have and more, who unfortunately have suffered and those who have suffered the most severe loss and those who have HRVI status, etc., that they are affected by them but I think everyone will agree and that today in the debate those who attacked the most said that absolutely about them and we need to take care of them. As for some of our own and my personal suggestions from the first reading, first and foremost here today, I've replicated a sense of justice that always hurts me, when any law is passed, something if it's not fair, it's sorry that we didn't succeed, and I realize that it might be a financial expense and I'll just repeat it here as a finding for some future ones, if someone is watching and the future passing of some laws that I still have such an injustice that the person who did it, who was the defender, has 200 days in the fighting sector, has done her life, 35 years of working time, 40 years of work, but unfortunately she's done such jobs where her average salary was 3.5, 4 thousand kuna. According to the General Pensions Insurance Act, their pension will be 2300 kuna. By the rights of the special law, which we are discussing here today, excuse me, there will be 2611 kuna and 17 limes if we take the average, statistics 45% of the average salary for 2016 that counts this year. A person who also has 200 days of the fighting sector but who has maybe a year's internship has the same right, someone's worked 40 years, someone's worked a year, they're both equally involved in the Homeland War. It's a little disproportionate to me, I know that this is specifically the Ministry of Defense, that this is about defenders, that it's not looking at the Pension and Filling Budget Act, and how much anybody contributed to the contributions, paying off contributions, but that level doesn't really sound good to me like that. But I do know that it would probably, I'm not saying it should be less, but to assume that someone was paying something that might be for the future. Of course, what's well-made is that one who really had 1441 days or more actually goes to a 30% supplement that's only 3% higher than that law by the general rules that normally apply to everyone when they retire. What we also said in our first reading was the concept of a wider family, which appeared on several occasions in the law itself, in that first bill of law. However, here it is now fixed and with this we are absolutely satisfied, where in Art. 17. points out that the wider family are actually parents. So this is clearly defined, because we were asked this concept of a wider family exactly what it refers to, further, also in different articles, in terms of advantages, the exercise of rights, let's say Article. Article 40(3), therefore, that, in favour of exercising the right to family property between the members of the rope and the extended family, the death-sufficient Croatian defender from the Homeland War, is determined according to the rules on succession. This means, specifically, when this right is once consumed, it's gone. If this is used by a member of the rope family, there is no right beyond that and that is absolutely acceptable to us. Also, just another example, article 83, which speaks, that the advantage of achieving the right housing care, if we speak from a member of the rope and a wider family alike... they exercise the right to an agreement with each other, so that only one member of the family can be granted the right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's absolutely clear, and I think that's a good, good direction, so that's where we opened up this possible ambiguity, which could cause a person in public. And the last thing we showed absolutely, and in which one of our amendments will go, yet to be specified in detail, was the obligation of the article. 168 on the financing of units of local self-government, where the initial reading envisaged amounts of 0.3 to 1% of the original income. Now with the new law on financing, it would be even more, specifically for the section where I come from, it meant that according to this proposal, and if we take income tax now into the original incomes of the entire volume, that the state is giving up, that would be nearly 750,000 kn, the city of Osijek has awarded to the associations 800,000 through programmes and competitions. So, I think that, as the minister said in his opening statement, this item really took care of the fiscal capacities of the local self-government units, and I will only have one more number of technical changes about that article. And I think that's a good thing, that actually all the policies, around defense associations, are being conducted at the lowest level, that unfairly elected leaders, decide, according to the state of their field, the municipalities and the city or the county, and the needs in accordance with their capacities, that they are not being imposed on by something they cannot do. And on the other hand, they must implement a certain policy and that clearly voters will be able to cumulate or punish, according to... So a few more things we had compared to the first one, which we accepted the explanations, is about some cumulatives, about at the same time, if someone is in a working relationship and there's compensation as a guardian, there's clearly in education that's defined by the rule, we didn't find it in the law, we'll absolutely accept the explanation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all in all, along with this multi-nom technical amendment that doesn't touch so much at the core, but ensures surely this part of the funding unit of local self-government, we... The HNS will accept this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, this is the case with certain controversy in society, or, let us say, perhaps unnecessary distinction between us and them and those, and neither party contributes. And I think we must always find that one middle road, which will honor what we should and do not have and never lose attention to those others also need in our society. That's our job. So don't worry about just once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62449	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Mr. Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62450	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Curaj, you have devoted one major to your truly quality debate to the status of Croatian defender. So, among other things, I have to point out that over 50,000 members of national minorities participated in the Homeland War, that they have that status, which is enough to say that the law is good, that it is equal to all and that it is not exactly the part that they want to stress there now, all of our colleagues, that it is written for one political option or party. So 50,000 members of the national minorities, who have achieved this status, have participated in the defense of our country, which is what makes us happy, that is, 10% of the defence population. Well, here's just one little addition to your discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62451	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Churay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62452	I thank my colleague. So, that what I initially also mentioned, is very important, therefore, that the fama being implemented, that now everyone who was a defender will have a benefit from this law, is not exactly true. And that categorization, it's never good. Not one basket, therefore, you mentioned national minorities, absolutely, nor party membership, nor any other party can determine, are you a better or worse defender, but only your actions as a man, and that at some point you recognized the interest perhaps greater than the personal and your family, and that was certainly the interest of the state. And that's what needs to be done. I mentioned that many of these sound rights are not being realised by those who have been less than 100 days in the fighting sector. They realize... When they go to proper retirement under the general rule, they can choose whether to take a minimum defence or not, but they must be able to meet the conditions, whether age, premature and like any other citizen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the vast majority of them. I know that in the HNS, we've had a lot of respect for each other, that we don't know, coerce the opposite, anything that has to do with the defender, but we have a very large number of our members who have just been defenders. Who were not the ones standing on the front lines, but who knew why they were working, returned to uniforms, weapons and continued working for this Croatia. And they need it in some way, at some point, sometimes... And of course, the ones who gave the most, they should get the most. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I think, always, what I mentioned in the debate, that one middle line, that no extremes in anything are good, no extremes of taking the right, no extreme giving of rights, will take us away, but I will only express more divisions and therefore, I think that all aspects of this law need to be realistically looked at and not thrown away by some figures, as much as it will bring. Of course, connotations can't be avoided, of course some of the things that people do, unfortunately in the past would have been better if they hadn't happened, but we always have to be the future, and that's what we should be working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62453	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62454	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ministers, distinguished secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about the proposal for a law on Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families. At the first reading when we were here, I emphasized not the things that were good in this law. It means where the unemployed were mentioned, where the exercise of rights was mentioned, i.e. 80,000 unemployed who will exercise their rights and many other changes in this law, and we have even given 15 proposals where one part is accepted, 6 proposals have been accepted, and I believe that when we talk about a Croatian soldier, then we should talk about a Croatian soldier as a winner against a large-scale fascist resort and a plan for the occupation of the Republic of Croatia, and there is a Croatian soldier which is the most important and should be proud of all regardless of party belongings, because in the Homeland War we have jointly achieved the dream of a free Republic and every defender must be of this pride and when we talk about this law, then we must not change the law of historical fact and the facts were in the first reading. In this reading, these things change, I will stress again and again, and very important things that are obvious after the reaction of the New York Wolfic who reported from New York and said that this definition cannot stand, of course cannot stand di our colleague sitting with us in the Parliament compared Ratko Mladic, Babić with our general hero of the Homeland War, Janko Bobetka, who was also the legend of the Homeland War and who was also an anti-fascist movement. Such a person cannot be compared and, of course, we raise tensions in this way, in this way we humiliate the Homeland War because the comparison with Ratko Mladic, war criminals and Chetniks who occupied the Republic of Croatia, was not a Croatian soldier in Nis, but he defended his country and, by virtue of the agreement, defended the premises and BiH together with members of the HVO and tomorrow we have a declaration which this Assembly voted and during the time to highlight the governments of Ivica Racan where the war is defined. That the war was the aggression of the Republic of Serbia, the JNA and others in these areas, in Croatia and BiH, and I can proudly point out that one body was a member of the HVO and the Croatian military and joint operations prevented numerous crimes, mainly in the BiH area because most of the forces at the beginning of the Homeland War, the Serbians came from the BiH area, so I do not understand why it was thrown out in the first article under c. In the first article, that qualification was, now it's been expelled, I believe that this law must not change the historical facts. We must not deny that the great pain has been given by minorities in the Croatian Homeland War, mostly by the Serb national minority and others, of course proportionally smaller. Only the people of Serbian nationality were 9,000 members of the Croatian Army and other units of the MUP and Croatian HOS, and there were also a large number of members, and these are facts and we should speak of it, however, turning the truth about the Homeland War and the history and declaration that was brought here to push, talking as a civil war, as an aggression in BiH, what is a notorous lie which has been mentioned in this Parliament for years, which has directly hit the foundations of today's state of Croatia and later followed, of course, in the last twenty years, arrests, location, transfer and everything that followed where the Homeland War was lost regardless of the government. We remember these words by Mr. Shacks when he said it publicly and it was a great blow to the dignity and foundation of the Croatian state because the Croatian most prominent defenders were persecuted as beasts, they had to prove their innocence in a court that had made numerous political decisions and today had a Cheseli Cheseli Chetnik on the loose. And we are witnessing that he has been harassing both Croatia and Bosnia and his assistant has been today's President of the Republic of Serbia. We don't need to insist on it all the time, but these are historical facts. When Croatian defenders, units that were legal, should be defiled for 3 months, they should talk about the monument to Croatian defenders. Every victim is a victim. 11 members of the Hos defended the country, they are volunteers of the Homeland War, among them are people from national minorities and this is the height of the Homeland War. There are no comparisons with the second, third, any world war, even we have a case of Frenchmen in Vukovar who have laid down their lives under the units of HOS and they are legal while other troops and enemy forces are raising memories throughout the Republic of Croatia. I expect from you ministers that Article 21 of the amendments that I will give you, that is now the question of whether you can accept all this and that is mentioned at the beginning, where we have proposed a team of articles where the abolized citizens or then the members of the Serb army will enjoy the rights that come from this law, I hope that I am in this proposal and for the time being you have not accepted it, I hope that you will accept it in Article 21, I really hope that because it is the interest of all of us to make this law as fair as possible and will never be... justice. I'm saying this myself, I've been in the Homeland War for five years, 13 years after the war I was a professional soldier, I know how this army came out. It's not my fault that I was too young then as someone was a little older, we see too much mortality as our Croatian defenders. Here he died suddenly and the great hero died yesterday, daily dying we're going to remember Davor Jovic, my comrade, my friend. I was surprised, the man who spent his whole life playing sports didn't have it in front of him, he was literally with everything he was above all human, but sudden death and so on. And that's why these laws don't seem to change history. People of defenses are the most affected, believe me when the facts of the Homeland War turn around. None of the presidents of Serbia, nor any of the party presidents can condition that the truth in one law, where the rights of defenders are spoken of whether we agree or not, we will give amendments, is all ok. We can talk about it, and we can work on it. However, crucially, we must not twist historical facts. The Croatian people are at a union without NATO's assistance at first, without the help of the European Community, with no help except for a few countries not to mention now and the diaspora have jointly defended the Republic of Croatia. So I expect, in particular, to highlight these two articles and what is most crucial to finally, and for 20 years all policies and governments have not wanted to ask for war damage payments. It is now at around 45m euros, and of course it is growing with interest. I see no reason why the Republic of Serbia as a follower and as an aggressor from which Vukovar and the entire space were attacked, would pay no war damage. I believe that this triba taken from your side will simply then be the means for this law, for the Law on Defence to be fulfilled is the key question when all these items of this law will be applied and when and when the funds will be provided. We can still be able to improve the situation, but it's always a matter of that financial means for people not only to be a law on paper but to be applicable in reality. Here are these amendments that will be a dozen I mentioned here because of the fact that the historical truth is not being reversed, that the Croatian state has defended itself in the community together with Croatian defenders and defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62455	Thank you. One replica, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62456	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, I have come to the attention of a part of your debate in which you speak about how some say that civil war is waged in Croatia. It's a very unusual claim. Let's say we can only ask three questions. The first question, from which country came the tank column that attacked Dubrovnik? We know from Montenegro. Where did the tank column that attacked Vukovar come from? We know from Serbia. Where did the tank column come from that attacked Western Slavonia? We know from Banja Luka. So, if it is clear that when an aggression on the territory of the Republic of Croatia is committed from several foreign countries, we can talk about what kind of civil war we are going on. Just because one part of the population of the Republic of Croatia was in collaboration with the aggressors, that absolutely does not mean that civil war is being waged in Croatia. On the Wehrmacht side, for example, 300 thousand Russian soldiers fought in World War II, 300 thousand Russians fought on the Wehrmacht side, ordered by the General... so no one is crazy that the Russians were waging a civil war but was a German aggression against the Soviet Union. Or do you have a situation that France has recruited the SS division and sent it into battle on the eastern front so no one will say that France was an aggressor to the Soviet Union but a part of the population was in collaboration. You always have a collaborationist, you always have those who would sell their homeland for a handful of vermin. But I think these terms should definitely be cleared up. In Croatia, civil war was not waged but aggression was committed. Croatia also had statehood in the former state, and of course statehood is based on documents that are several centuries old, therefore civil war was not there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62457	Thank you. The answer to Mr. Bull's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62458	A colleague of Bunjac, how negligent was all political options in the last 15 years when they could react, when he was still The Hague court. Ratko Mladic, who committed crimes in Škabrnja, Nadina, Ravni kotars, behind Sibenik, Sibenik, the Drnis area, blasted the Peruć dam and managed to mine it, but with God's heart there was no ecocid and genocide of unremembered proportions, even Hitler did not do it to the dam, perhaps some, but it is like a Nazi. Not one word in The Hague mentions Ratko Mladic was in our area, only BiH. how much political elites cared at all about how much care they were taking if the MP didn't tell us or the MP in the Parliament that it was a civil war, it's a disaster. She's right, but that's my attitude. If a fellow representative tells us that General Janko Bobetko, who was also an anti-fascist in the first, if they are already calling for that comparison with Ratko Mladic, is a war criminal and not General Bobetko was in Nis, but he defended... in Dubrovnik since the attack from Montenegro, from Banja Luka to the centre of Croatia, on Vukovar from Serbia and not only that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now they're changing from the first article, from the first reading of the article where this part is deleted from Bosnia and Herzegovina by large Serb troops from part of Serbia. I don't see any reason. Or this article where we're asking that we can't have the abolized members I don't know what to call them SAO landscapes, Chetniks. They're abolized, and they can't have the rights under this law. We're looking for it and we really expect that part to be accepted along with some other... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62459	Thank you, thank you. Time Thank you. [[Intruder Bulj: These are historical facts.]] Mrs Ines Strenja-Linić individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62460	Thank you. Once again, I welcome all Croatian defenders and their families who are likely to listen carefully to this debate today, and I would like to stress that the adoption of a new comprehensive law is a positive step in solving the many problems that the defenders have faced two decades after the end of the war, and it is finally time to sum up this in one of these laws. I have to say that primarily care and care for defenders all these years has been and was founded only on some kind of pension and social programmes, but that even after this law, what is necessary is that we have to provide them with appropriate psycho and health support and care programmes, because there has been no enough so far. I would like to stress that in total at the end of 2016 with the last day there were 505 694 Croatian defenders on the record. Of which we were living 442 thousand 770. The 56562 defenders had the status of a wartime military invalid but the main concern is the fact that 54000 Croatian defenders died since the war, and only in 2016. 4073. And it's very important, but it's amazing how much Croatia has resisted the recognition of the status of underage defenders so far, and I ask once again to think about it and to put it taxively into the law, because every juvenile defender, like every female defender, were volunteers, had no obligation to serve the military term. But many of our fellow citizens did not respond and did not leave voluntarily, and we made it quite clear that those who left were volunteers, those who were regularly invited to the Croatian Army troops had only the status of defenders. These two categories have not been put into Croatian law all these two decades. But underage defenders volunteered to approach, didn't call them, didn't have to leave, and we have actually at the moment there were as many as 1100 of them who died. As far as women are concerned, as many as 24,000 women were in the Homeland War, and I think they certainly deserve to be put in place and listed in this law. Once again, I would return to the story that I am sorry that Mr Djakić is so easily and superficially crossing this item about who has committed aggression on us and that we are clearly reading it, although it was quite different when this law was written and when it was first reading. And I want to say that the MOST Club and I as an advocate will also consider whether we will support this definition that you have put forward, which is that you have left out what was originally written, which is that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War have defended and defended the Republic of Croatia within internationally recognised borders against the armed aggression committed by Serbia, Montenegro, the Yugoslav People's Army and the Bosnia and Herzegovina paramilitary troops, with the help of a large number of members of the Serb national minority in the Republic of Serbia, organised and led by a large Serb policy, which is a fact and what we must make clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62461	Replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62462	Comrade Strenja, I agree with you that this definition that you have said was in place and that it was not a trial lawyer, nor the proponent, especially when the president of Serbia has already said this, well-known columnist of Cheschela Vukic, who, if he sent the message, can't impose on us. We have a Declaration of Homeland War and we're aware of everyone who was in that time, there are a lot of defenders here on the one hand and on the other. It's not at all a question here that this thesis he spoke does not stand. Here was a clear definition as well as Article 21 where they were abolized, they have conditions, where they would have the right to exercise from this law members of the Serbian paramilitary. We need these things, they're the most important things. We have other amendments, but these are key, fundamental things where I can't twist the historical facts. I fully agree with you here, because the Homeland War was neither civil but was liberating, the aggressor was Serbia, JNA, the Serbs from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the rebel Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. But once again, I am stressing the honor of all members of the national minorities once again stressing 9,000 who is representing them, whether or not their voice is heard. People who have given their lives numerous, their health and really should always be stressed. I believe these definitions are not even in line with the Homeland War Declaration that was passed during the Government of Ivica Racan, and I am stressing unanimously. And that we should not change the political facts of this law. We can talk about everything and these are the foundations. Well, he can't use the phone to call someone in Croatia. And who's he calling, who's he calling? Compares General Bobetka to Ratko Mladic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62463	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62464	Comrade Bulj, I think we have made it clear enough and that, with our amendments as members of the MOST Club, we have made it clear that we want this law to be improved. To just go back to the part where we said that we had to set exactly the criteria for which they would be forgiven, so loans that weren't actually paid, which, people are under the covers, under the blockages, etc. It may not even be known that it is practically half a billion kunas that we have saved only with that amendment. So we wanted to improve this law, to enable those who are socially endangered anyway, but also so that some things do not belong to forgiveness and do not work because there are those who have also misused the loans that have been granted to them as defenders. We've said enough about this today, I think Vucic has made enough noise at the moment this came up, and in the end, it's overshadowed many good things that have been tried by this comprehensive law in the end to regulate. We must say that the largest number of Croatian defenders will get nothing by this law. He'll get the honor, the status, but no financial compensation. As we first recognize certain categories. But we had to do something, at last we had a law that would clearly define the rights, especially the rights of the victim. But at a time when we need to talk about one of these quality laws, this is practically an introduction and preamble, and then we get into a situation where someone can use their blackmailing potential to make sure that they know exactly who designed the aggression on Croatia and that's the team of great Serbs, so... which is from the memo... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and further accurately and clearly stated what intentions and how he intended to rule our territory and we did not fight for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62465	An individual debate, Mr. Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62466	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Let me discuss this proposal of the law of the local patriotic initiatives, given that I believe that the north of Croatia, means the Varazdins, Međimurci, Zagorci, Podravci, Prigorci also made a major contribution to stopping aggression, in the weapons of our homeland by taking up military JNA, after participating in freeing military redistribution operations, in the economic part because both the military, police and the people and to feeding and of course provide hundreds of thousands of exiles and refugees. First of all, I would like to congratulate the minister and his team on the very good work of the ministry and then on the effort to pass this new single law aimed at providing Croatian defenders with adequate care and all according to their health and socioeconomic status. To take care of Croatian defenders, but also about the dignity of the Homeland War, we are told by numerous activities of the ministry, and they are also visible from earlier supplies of material, e.g. from the analysis of various demographic, social and economic and other characteristics, the overall defence population produced by the State Statistics and Ministry. It is a new scientific approach to this topic and therefore it is necessary in exactly this way and to continue at one scientific level. We all know it's '91. For years it has been crucial to create an independent, sovereign, internationally recognised Republic of Croatia but it has also been crucial in defending our homeland against the imposed war on us. Therefore, I am pleased that the law specifically deals with this period, so that members of the armed national protection teams directly engaged in the fighting sector are placed for a minimum of 100 days and killed, imprisoned or missing in the period from 30th to 31st.12. '91. The year allows for the status of Croatian defender. It is also important to point out that all those who participated in the defence of our country and do not have the conditions for obtaining the status of Croatian defenders are predicted to be a participant of the Homeland War. This status is not intended for any material rights but for moral satisfaction. Namely, Varazdin, that is, north of Croatia in key days for the survival of our country in so-called In the days of war, he won one of the greatest victories by enslaving the entire 32nd Corps of JNA. This weapon is literally armed with Croatia and has obtained preconditions for conducting military-redarative operations aimed at liberating occupied Croatian territory. I note that then 80 tanks were captured, 70 armored combat vehicles, 18 single cannons, 6 Wbr's Plamen, 4 Wbr's Fire, 36 haubics, walking weapons for the equipment of 10 brigades, 250 different vehicles, hundreds of mortars of different calibers, etc.. During these war days, special units of the police were involved, the basic police force of the Varazdin Police Administration, the National Guard Assembly troops, i.e. 104 brigades of the Croatian Army, the 5th Tiger Army, which later turned into the legendary 7th Guard Brigade of Puma, a platoon of territorial defenses and laid down people's protections. By proposing this law, all who cannot achieve the status of Croatian defenders will achieve the status of participants and thus gain moral satisfaction that they have contributed to the defence of the sovereignty of our country. I think everyone knows the great contribution of the Varazdin police officers to the defense of the city of Vukovar where around 1100 participated. Only in the last shift in Vukovar were 185 of which 21 were killed, 5 more wanted and missing, 119 were taken to the Stajico concentration camps, Serbian Mitrovica, Novi Sad and Belgrade, and 66 were wounded. So from here, I urge that when they retire, they be allowed to go to the status of a Special Forces officer. I also note that 175 defenders were killed from the Varazdin County area during the Homeland War, so I suggest that on September 22nd, when the day of liberation of the city and the Day of Defence of the Varazdin County is marked as the anniversary of the state level. In addition, defenders themselves have often highlighted problems related to the assignment of rank and medals. I am aware that there is a commission within the ministry dealing with these issues. I point out here the example of the 17th class of the Police Academy, which has been since 5 August of '91. further away, all the adult pies invited to the defense of the homeland. They were granted the status of Croatian defenders but none of them were given the Homeland War Memorial in '90-92 today. I hope that the next period of all the merits will be served the merits of confessions, medals and medals. Furthermore, I propose that the law or in one article of the law allow the Minister to determine the use of the military tags to the troops. Today, we have a situation where war signs are being used in the original form, whether processed, processed, sometimes inappropriately but for private purposes. I believe that for all defenders, the war mark under which their saints fought, they should be treated with respect. I also appeal to allow defenders to purchase their dress uniforms because it is truly inappropriate that on key and important anniversarys related to the Homeland War they come in sweatpants or T-shirts, yet our defenders are part of the winning army and police, and therefore I will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62467	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62468	Comrade Stričak, thank you for your comprehensive report on the participation of Varazdin County and our Varazdinians since... Vukovar to Dubrovnik and defense of our entire Croatian homeland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a great contribution from the Varazdin defenders, and as far as the Varazdin defenders were concerned, they were always the first among the first and the equal. This Law on Croatian Defences brings those, as I said for the first time, those who were active participants in the Homeland War, true victims, those who were not ministers of Croatian defenders only from the basis of politics but from a true contribution to the Homeland War, who knew the situation in the Homeland War from '91 to '95. and still, not those who spent a small part of their lives and later lost themselves in war and in peace so that they could not choose the side to which they belonged at all, so according to their views and sides where they were found and made decisions, they made public opinion and attacks against true heroes and defenders, and what we witnessed in that ugly expression when they called us tenters, and which the epic ended here only behind this wall in St. Mark's church. I know as well as you that many will not support this law as they did not support us in '91. Nor in '95, nor as far as I can see today, but I hope that at least they will find something that will bring them in and agree to the well-being of Croatian defenders who, thanks to them, are also here in the Croatian Parliament and will vote positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62469	Thank you very much. Mr. Striker, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62470	Well, colleague Culey, I am pleased to have your opinion as a true defender of the Varazdin defenders who have indeed participated in all military-redarative operations, defended their country from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, literally, no trenches, no battlefields where there were none. Therefore, I appreciate your attitude and welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62471	Thank you very much. Mr. Vidovic, he's gone. Mr. Bull, final word on behalf of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62472	Honorable chairman, respected ministers, secretaries, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As I said in my first reading when I spoke on behalf of the club, this bill solves one already part of the problem and of course the MOST has made certain proposals, we here have long closed deadlines for resolving the status of Croatian defenders,... status, unemployed getting rid of each other, trying to get rid of the abolished... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] longevity of housing and many more, numerous articles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is simple because I am a member of the Committee of Veterans and we were all here in some things unanimous but certain remarks and amendments if they can be respected it would be good to consider, although the proposal of the Minister, certain things that were given during the first reading were changed itself in the second reading, numerous are not, we will give the amendments again, but what is the key of this law, I will once repeat, not to blame the Minister or to resent the ministry but simply we must keep the foundations of the Homeland War declaration because then it was adopted in this Parliament, that is the truth about the Homeland War, all other things we can discuss, and of course we all need the interest primarily to protect Croatian soldiers, a man who is without bare hands, in the Croatian people's community, in difficult times achieved the Croatian state, which we have, unfortunately, after '95. We handed her over to politicians, who unfortunately took Croatia in the wrong direction, so that the defenders were arrested, located, arrested, transferred, leaked, and criminals were walking free and parting Croatian interests. I think that these two key, two key remarks that we've made, that you're going to consider, in the amendment and some other amendments, that's 21 articles that we're proposing, that the abolised Chetniks cannot enjoy the rights of the 27000 that stem from this law, because they're not being prosecuted, prosecuted. We believe that, in this regard, you should also look at Article 1 as the preamble of this law itself, where you know it yourself, here, they have repeated, that we no longer repeat, the truth, who is the aggressor, who attacked the Republic of Croatia, was not a civil war here, there was a war of great Serbian politics led by Slobodan Milosevic, the academic community, the Serbian, along with the Chetnik movement, Seselj, Vucic, the president of Serbia, Nikolic, the former president of Serbia. And these are historical facts. And we from these historical contexts in the first article and means 21 Art. I hope that we can agree and that we are interested in all the shortcomings, that the defenders exercise their deserved rights, because pride and dignity of the Homeland War must not be humiliated. Tomorrow is the trial, i.e. The verdict, the Croatian generals, who defended Croatia and the BiH, because we need to know that it is not Croatian soldiers, today there would be neither BiH nor Croatia. Therefore, the Croatian soldier, i.e. The Croatian defender is the most honorable, the biggest brand of Croatian and I hope that this law and certain amendments can give us the law, and, of course, a good law for Croatian defenders. So, Ministers of our amendment read, see if we can agree, we would also like this proposal to be as good as possible and in the interest of the man, and that is the Croatian defender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62473	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Mrs. Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62474	Your Honor, Vice President. Once again, my colleague Bulj would have mentioned something. Col. Bulj, I am sorry that you didn't say that 4.8th session in Knin, something was done that we didn't think we should have and we proposed it as the Bridge Club and proposed, which is that according to the draft bill, we suggested that the application should begin with 1.1.2018 as provided for by Article. 197 from a public hearing. So, Croatian wartime military disableds from the Homeland War in Art. 201. the status of which is recognised under the disease, after the entry into force of this law, the right to a disability pension of the Article. The 30th of this law can be implemented as early as 1.1.2019. It was said in 2018 and I think that this amendment should be adopted because there is no reason if they have the right not to. I'm not going to mention, as my colleague Sagar said, how many millions, millions, millions, we've wasted, for some other things, if we want to solve the military disabled, all those who exercise the right, there's no reason for us to have this part away. I'm going to ask the minister one more time, we've made an amendment. And I'm going to repeat what my colleague Bulj said, please, on behalf of 24000 women who participated in the Homeland War, 5% of the total population of the defense, and based on more than 3500 living still minors, to put them as one special category, which I want to say clearly, you shouldn't have gone to war, you went, you deserve not to be like those who came, who shouldn't have served the military deadline, let's not go home or I don't know how focused you are. For example, women who were part of the Homeland War are all automatically volunteers and all minor defenders. We owe underage defenders because they may have suffered the most and have not received adequate satisfaction for their participation in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62475	Thank you very much, thank you. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62476	So here's the comment, i.e. What we've given through the amendments, I expect in the interest of the defender, regardless of who he is in the SDP, the HDZ Bridge or the Living Wall sympathiser, that they all expect to solve their problems. And once again, we here must put a Croatian defender, a defender, a minor volunteer or I don't know, this legal framework is protected from many possible, as is the case. 21. if possible, and I believe it is possible, because it is amazing that those who attacked Croatia have the rights, regardless of what they are abolized, because they are not criminally recorded. This is what the rights under this law are, and they were attacked in the Republic of Croatia, and then eventually they're secretaries in the ministries. I mean, they hit it, they fired the most grenades, they don't even know the number. So we here have to protect all those groups you said. We have the possibility of seeking war damage from Serbia, 45 billion euros, huge money, that's our right, because the fact that there was no civil war here. Here's the fact that there's been a war, there's known who's the aggressor, and I expect it to come back in the first article, like it was, but I believe that, first of all, with little differences, the most important thing, is that we have the means, that we have the means provided for, secondly, that this law was respected. Perhaps, saying in Knin is not good that it will be right for everyone, to apply the law, i.e. that rights and money will be realised since 1.1.2018. However, one part has now been extended for 2019, because what is important is not to give anyone false hope. It is important to preserve the country's war, the foundations of the state, and not to let anyone from Belgrade, let alone Belgrade or Vienna tell us what the country's war is, regardless of whether it is him or the coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62477	Thank you very much. Mr. Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62478	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bulj, the respect of the defenders in Croatia sometimes, I said that a little while ago, and now I have to say, unfortunately, when we look at how many people wanted to say something good about the defenders in this House, very, very little. So even here, let's look, on my right side, they're absolutely not interested in defenders. And then it's clear to me that they present such lies and such disrespect for the Homeland War. I am very sad that in this House, which here in this house should defend all the rights of people, especially the people who have defended so far, I see the obstructions of some people who simply don't want to hear about it, they don't want to support these people. When I see these people sitting here and there are hundreds and thousands of them, so be me as a man, as a parliamentary representative of shame, and I also feel one courage to say to these people, don't be afraid, today when they need help from this country, when this country has not done so far, with shame everything is done, which, with pride, is not done in this country, with pride in this Parliament that we respect those people who we probably wouldn't now, would probably be some communist party with a five-pointer and probably all of them would be hanging on pillars and all of us together who Croatia think and who love it. So I'm a little injured here as a man who's clearly not being spoken, which is not said more strongly, and the more freely you don't talk in this country about what's somehow in the cellophane somehow, vaguely. And it gives courage in fact and gives courage to these people to underestimate all this good that we have and what we have done well, they underestimate it and try in some way to challenge it and say that it is all false, that it is all not good and that everything should be done about how they imagine and how they want to be Croatia... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62479	Thank you. It's been two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62480	Well, I would agree that tonight is already evening, so a little when we expect, when we should all imagine, pray, light a candle because it is judged by the people who defended BiH and Croatia, the people who waged a defensive war against the aggressors of the great-Serb. As a participant of that time, as a young man, I repeat, I was on that part, indeed every man must have tears in his eye. And it's sad, of course, that we have to disagree, I mean it's natural and we're going to be able to express our views, but in this case we really have to remember tonight all of these people who gave their lives in the HVO area, in the BiH area, those people who joined our territory from Herzegovina before there was a war in the BiH area, we're all together, so we're going to mention here and the national minorities, another 9,000 people from the Serb national minority of Croatian defenders, we all gave a great pain together, it was. The Croatian defender is essentially the greatest anti-fascist. When someone called for anti-fascism, we were attacked by fascists. So we must, we must build that we are anti-fascists, we are those who have prevented one slaughter, conquest, fascist ideology, great Serbian ideology. And so in these documents, I'm sorry, first of all, that I repeat once again what an empty assembly is, of course, that this law needs to be discussed. But we must not forget those who are, tomorrow, judge because simply those people must be in our minds. And here's who can tonight, it would be good to pray, light a candle because, by prayer, we can contribute, of course, who believes, to help these people feel that spirit as it was five years ago, here's recently passed in the case of judgment of our generals Cermak, pardon Gotovina and Markac and I expect, I hope, but I'm afraid the political court will do what shouldn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62481	Thank you very much. And now, in the end, Minister Tomo Bear will give the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62482	Honorable MPs, respected members of the Association of 100% Croatian Military Disabilities Group I, Honored Ladies and Gentlemen Representatives. I thank you for your constructive discussion and for your remarks, and I especially thank you for your specific suggestions. All the proposed amendments we have received will be thoroughly analysed and we will be clear until the law is passed. It was visible here today during this debate that in the Republic of Croatia, in addition to all our efforts, all the analyses we have done and presented in this High House and the public of the Republic of Croatia that there are still numerous prejudices towards Croatian defenders because of incorrect and incomplete information. Unfortunately, over the past years many of these inaccuracies and misinformation have been placed in the Croatian public and among other things as Croatian defenders are constantly seeking something, as they are dissatisfied despite all the rights and rarely as they are privileged. And we could have heard similar statements during this debate today. We at the Ministry of Croatian Defence, have taken a number of measures to present this picture, the way it really is, through appropriate analysis of the situation, through an appropriate relationship, with associations from the Homeland War, with all Croatian defenders. Although the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, decreed that the state has dedicated special care to the protection of Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disabled, victims of the Homeland War, here, for 2 decades, after the end of the Homeland War, unfortunately, the status and material issues of Croatian defenders are not properly regulated and resolved. I'll remind you, only of the conditions that forced us to approach this bill. Through a series of legal and sublegal acts, legal and existential insecurity has been created. Therefore, through studies and presentations, which we have delivered to all MPs and MPs in this House, we have shown that they would not be false and that they would not be with the defence population and would not be mentioned in any context with incorrect indicators. And this study has also been the basis for making all the versions of the laws we've done over the past year and a half. Our population, inevitably old. Our health problems are becoming more difficult, mortality figures and average age, in which Croatian defenders die are amazing. The hospitals are full of Croatian defenders without adequate status and therefore we have launched and proposed a measure in the law, abolishing this restrictive deadline for obtaining the status of a Croatian military invalid on the basis of disease. How to interpret the fact that people spent several years defending their country, and one administrative deadline limited the possibility of regulating the status of Croatian defenders. And it is high time that all these status and material issues of all Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, which have been distributed for many years, were distributed into other laws of unity. To create the legal and existential security of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War. Given the age, if we don't do it now, the question is will we have someone to do it for after a few years? I just want to look back at a few of the proposals that were made here today. I would like to stress that, as we have done and after consulting the interested public, after the first reading in this Visko home, we will now very seriously and responsibly approach the analysis of all the amendments submitted and that, in the final proposal, we will take into account all the concrete proposals that contribute to the quality of this law. What I would like to point out is that it is unquestionable and that the declaration of the Homeland War of 2000 is unquestionable. Absolutely in the original form contained in this final bill. Equally related to the financial impact, which has been talked about today. We have been preparing all this time, both before the first reading, so between the 2 readings, in close cooperation with all ministries, and especially with the Ministry of Finance, conducted an analysis of the impact and impact of the law on finance. And the measures we have proposed and the table here in support of this brochure, it is very clear that all the measures proposed are available when we talk about budgetary resources. Unfortunately, due to a series of measures and a great financial impact, we are not able to apply all measures to the entry into force of this law. We have already been in coordination with the Ministry of Finance, we have come to the conclusion that part of the measures is applied over a certain period, i.e. by obtaining the conditions for financing all these measures. Madam and gentlemen, in the belief that you have recognised the constructive and concrete measures, which, through the content of this law, after many years, have been united in a unique text, thanks to the close cooperation of the Ministry of Croatian Defence, with all the associations of the Homeland War, thanks to the quality and close cooperation of all the members of the ministries in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister, making sure that this law is in practice applicable, that it is clear and accurate in application. To be available about the budgets. I hope you will support, that you will make a contribution to the adoption of this law. Because I will repeat that we must not allow Croatian defenders who created the Republic of Croatia, who gave their lives for her, who were wounded and became Croatian wartime wartime disabled, their families who have been through all the fears and sufferings to view this population as a burden. I expect esteemed ladies and gentlemen MPs to support the Final Bill on Croatian Defence and Family Members in their conviction that we will jointly monitor and monitor the process of implementation and application of this law, all in favour of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War and making sure that this is the most powerful foundation of an independent and sovereign Republic. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62483	Thank you, Mr. Minister, but we still have three replicas. First Mr. Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62484	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The respected ministers of good things that are in the law of course should always be commended and in our first reading we commend and indeed expect these remarks, i.e. Now in the form of amendments that you will look at and that you will see and in fact accept what you think is good, and most of all, at the MOST club, I will repeat the irritation of the discharge, meaning this part, the change of this part, means the rights of the Bosnia and Herzegovina paramilitary unit. So here I will read to you all Croatian defenders from the Homeland War defend and defend the Republic of Croatia within the internationally recognised border against the armed aggression committed by Serbia, Montenegro, JNA and the paramilitary troops from BiH with the help of a large number of members of the Serb national minority in the Republic of Serbia and organised and led by a large Serb policy. It's a great Serbian policy that's done all this evil. We do what we have to, I expect from you, I know the laws, I know the effort has been made. I know, I'm sorry that we're not all much more constructive together, much more amendments, much more proposals, all for the protection of the Croatian defender. But in the basics of Article 21, where the abolized Chetniks who are not being prosecuted are not allowed to exercise the rights of this law. I'm not saying that I want to degrade you now, though. I think that the effort has been made, that it has been done and I expect these amendments that we have sent, and you yourself have said that it is in the common interest to be as good as possible, and in the interests of the community, Croatian defenders and defenders, volunteers, minor volunteer, 100 percent of Croatian wartime disabled, all those who would be able to exercise these rights and most importantly, means funds... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62485	Thank you very much. Another replica of Mrs. Juricev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62486	Thank you, Vice President. So, dear Minister Bear and his associates, you said in your final statement that a lot of it was visible, that many prejudices today were made about defenders, a population that is getting worse every day, it's getting older. I'd say it's really visible and let's look at how many parliamentary representatives on the other side were willing to welcome your closing word, hear and influence something that would be better for our defenders in the next period. If there is a little humanity in any of us, if and a little respect for those who are gone, who have given their lives for our better future, if and a little respect for those people who have given part of themselves that we would be better off and if one of these measures prevents one of our defenders from making suicides, we should squeeze in and vote in favour of this law. Here's a call for everyone. Unfortunately, I don't know who I call when they're gone, but I think someone's gonna read something and give support to this law, because if even one of the only living ones saves this law, I think we've done a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62487	Thank you very much. And the third last replica, Mr. Shipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Today, we had a colorful debate on the proposal of laws on Croatian defenders, all kinds of structures and qualifications that are not proud of those who spoke during the debate, and especially are not proud of Croatian defenders waiting for this House to adopt this law. Everyone has the right to their own opinion and attitude, but without insinuation and false thesis on the status and rights of the defenders that this law proposes in detail. The very fact that you, Mr. Minister, have personally engaged with all your teams in the drafting of this bill testifys that you and the ministry care that Croatian defenders and their families are given the rights that belong to them by their status. Therefore, full support to you, your team, who are making an effort to bring the dignity of Croatian defenders under no circumstances can be questioned. It's so good, and here's a colleague before me said good in this bill, and we've heard part of the opposition that's finally being said, we'll all agree together, so it's not right, not fair to stand up for any new defense rights or disagree, not to attend a final debate like this. The fact itself speaks of those who participated today with which motives they participated in the debate. This debate today was supposed to have more dignity, unity and respect for everyone, not that in a very transparent and superficial way comes to a very ugly thesis of our and your defenders. Thank you, Mr. Minister, and insist on implementing this law for the good of all Croatian defenders and their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62489	Thank you very much. I welcome here the representatives of the Association of 100% persons with disabilities of the Homeland War, Mr. Minister. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met, probably Thursday, Thursday, probably. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62490	Final proposal of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family, second reading, P.Z. No. 174. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 199. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 104 votes, we have decided to hold a debate on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would now like to ask the representative of the proposer, the esteemed Croatian Defence Minister, Tom Bear, to explain the amendments submitted, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62491	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Republic of Croatia's Republic of Croatia has submitted four amendments to the final draft law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Since this is about nomotechnical changes, I suggest we unite them in the presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62492	Does anyone object to such a proposal? If there isn't, please, Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62493	Thank you very much. Amendment 1. In Article 179, points (g) to (k) of the words ‘after’ shall be replaced by the words ‘at the request of the party’. Explanation. Since the administrative procedure may be initiated at the request of the party or on official duty of this supplement, it shall be clearly determined that the status of the participants can be achieved in the administrative procedure initiated at the request of the party. Amendment 2. In Article 190, point (c) of Article 190 is replaced by the following: Explanation. Since part of the amendment of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament has been accepted to replace in Article 102(1) the words ‘public tender or adverts’ in the words ‘public tender, advert or in the recruitment procedure carried out in another way’. It is also necessary to add, in Article 190, that criminal sanctions also apply to non-compliance with the employment advantage in the procedure of employment carried out in another way. Amendment 3. In Article 205(2), paragraph 2 is deleted. Explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And Amendment 4. In Article 210, the following Article 145 is added: Explanation as for Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62494	I thank the ministers. I am opening a debate on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Is there anyone here to discuss this? Comrade Glasnović, come in. I can only be representatives of clubs it's clear to you, I don't think I should stress that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62495	Thank you. I propose for amendment 1 to Article 1 in Article 1 of the words quotes: "With the armed rebellion of part of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia, they are changing and I am adding quotes to the Serb paramilitary troops from BiH with the help of a large number of members in the Republic of Croatia, organised and brought to the heart by a large-scale policy. [[Adversity President: Col. Glasnović...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62496	A colleague, Glasnović, is not a topic at all. Those aren't even the amendments we're having right now. Is there anyone who thinks about the current Minister's proposal? If not, then I'm closing the argument. I suggest we adopt these amendments unitedly, so I ask you to join in and vote. So we vote on all four amendments to the government presented by Minister Bear. I find that most of the votes, 93 votes for and 1 abstentions, have been accepted by the government's amendments, and they become an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are now moving to vote on the other amendments submitted by the Committee on Law, the War Veterans Committee, the Live Wall Representatives' Club and the SNAGA, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, the Club of the Representatives of Independent Lists, the Independent Club for Croatia. The amendment table was sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved again. Let's take it in a row. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62497	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment cannot be accepted because point (c) is fully in line with the Homeland War Declaration, and any intervention at this point would lead to a situation in which this provision would be contrary to the Homeland War Declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62498	Here's your colleague, Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62499	We're looking for a vote on this, and I'm going to make an argument. So the bill cites all segments of the aggressor military force that attacked the sovereign state within internationally recognised borders. The proposed item, however, casts out citizens of the Serb province who are involved in the aggression against the legal authority, which is inappropriate to democratic society. Such a legal solution does not respect the fundamental values of the Homeland War, nor does it correspond to historical reality. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62500	We approach the vote and the amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Moving to Amendment 2. "Independence for Croatia" representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62501	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment cannot be accepted because point C is fully in line with the Homeland War Declaration, and any intervention at this point would lead to a situation in which this provision would be contrary to the Homeland War Declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62502	We believe it is necessary to extend the definition of aggressor given the known facts, i.e.... from BiH's field of war operations in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of those military and paramilitary units were aimed at creating a single Serbian state that would also include occupied parts of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62503	We move to a vote on this amendment that the government does not also accept. Please, let's vote. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. The third amendment is the amendment of the Living Wall and Power Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62504	The amendment is not accepted, with an explanation in the current Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families as well as in the final proposal of this law, it is not the date of the start and end of the Homeland War that determines the period of participation in the defence of independence, territorial integrity, sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia or the time of direct threat to the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia within which the status of Croatian defender can be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62505	An obvious colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62506	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the very beginning, I propose that a united vote on all our amendments to this law, so specifically 3, 6, 8, 11 and 20, because it's the same problem, so the content is de facto the exact same. As for the reasons of the ministry, we cannot accept it because we believe that no one can have the status of a war veteran without participating in the Homeland War. So the status of a war veteran can only be one who participated in military operations during the struggles. And since official history found that all the fights in Croatia and BiH ended on 14 December 1990 by adopting the Dayton Agreement, there is no basis for anyone who was in June '96. years in the military or logistics also enjoys the rights of Croatian defenders. I think it is simply wrong that people who have defended Vukovar, Karlovac, Gospić, Pakrac, Zadar, Sibenik and other attacked cities in the Republic of Croatia are now equated with people who have not been in any way exposed to danger or suffered fear, stress and all the other consequences resulting from armed struggles. I'm asking you to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62507	Here we go. You were talking about Amendments 3, 6, 8, 11 and 20. Is that right? So Ministers Government refuses all these amendments if I get it right? You're refusing all these amendments, aren't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62508	We refuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62509	Yes, since the government rejects all these amendments, then we can vote unitedly. Do you agree with your colleagues from the Living Wall and the Power Force? So please let us vote on amendments 3, 6, 8, 11 and 20 that the government does not accept. I note that Amendments 3, 6, 8, 11 and 20 proposed by the Living Wall and SNAGA Club did not receive the required number of votes. We move to Amendment 4 of the Independent Lists' Representatives' Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62510	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62511	Comrade Orepic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62512	We are looking for a vote on the above-mentioned amendment with an explanation. We need to know that underage defenders of the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia were included 3.5 thousand while Vukovar himself defended 94 of them who died in 46, many of whom were deadlyly killed, and many of them died in the war. I don't want any further explanation. I think that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62513	Please vote on amendment number four of the Independent Lists Bridges that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We're moving on to the 5th amendment of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62514	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62515	It's obvious. Here are my colleagues, Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62516	...to all MPs. 5% of the participants in the Homeland War were women, 14000 of them were directly on the front line of the front line in direct armed conflicts. 2000 women were wounded, 766 were killed, only in Vukovar, 127 women died and 1113 were permanently disabled. Women who were participants of the Homeland War who had no military obligation to do so, who had to do their job 24 of them were included in the Croatian army, but 14000 of them were directly involved on the front line of the battlefield, as doctors, as sisters, as fighters and as those who had shoulder-to-shoulders. Let us prove and confirm our respect for them and give them special status, however, that every woman, by entering and joining the Croatian army, has the automatic status of a volunteer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62517	I assume you're looking for a vote? Then we will vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. [[Strenja-Linić: I am looking for a vote.]] Please, let's vote. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. So now we're going to skip to 7th, and we've shown ourselves about him, and the 7th Amendment is the same club of the representatives of the bridge of the independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62518	The amendment is not accepted for the reason of the introduction of a new category of dead Croatian defenders, and members of their families who will exercise the rights laid down under this law for members of the families of the dead Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders under this bill can achieve family pension rights, unemployment benefits, free textbooks, support for education and priority in employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62519	It's obvious. You're giving up the amendment or you're giving up the vote or what? Thank you very much. Then we withdraw that amendment. We've already solved the eighth. It's a "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club, so we're going to the ninth same club of representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62520	The amendment is not accepted. Paragraph 1(a) states that the right under this law cannot be exercised by the helpers or associates of the enemy military and paramilitary units involved in the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia or by members of their families on the basis of their deaths.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62521	Appreciation, dear fellow Orepic. Thank you. So, the amendment is withdrawn, so let's go to Amendment 10. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62522	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62523	It becomes an integral part of the law. We've also voted number 11. 12. Again, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62524	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the car assigned to the first group's Croatian military disabled is an orthopedic aid that adapts to each user depending on the type of disability, and as such is not suitable for use by another user.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62525	An obvious colleague of Orepic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62526	We ask for a vote under that amendment and with the explanation of the following. So, if someone is entitled to a vehicle fully costed by that vehicle, the adjustment of that vehicle for use of insurance from the budget does not seem to be a reason why that vehicle cannot be assigned after 7 years, especially since the person handing over that vehicle will need another new car also tailored to their need. I really think it's just that after 7 years of using it to get someone else who doesn't have the ability to get to any car, let alone fit for such purposes. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62527	Then let's vote on the amendment of the Most Independent Lists. The government doesn't accept it. And this amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to the 13th Amendments also of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62528	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, there is no need to state that the right to take advantage of employment cannot be achieved by persons who are not beneficiaries of pensions, since the Employment Intermediation and Employment Rights Act has determined that an unemployed person is not, among other things, considered a person who is a user of pensions. In addition to beneficiaries of a pension entitled to a disability pension due to a professional incompetence for the work or benefit of a pension entitled to a disability pension due to a partial loss of employment capacity and the benefit of a family pension where that pension is not paid as well as a person who fulfils the conditions for retirement pension, and as such would not be able to exercise the right to take advantage of employment for unemployed persons referred to in Article 101(1). This article has already extended the range of persons who can take advantage of employment by respecting the socioeconomic situation in the family of persons who would have the right to take advantage of employment. It is noted that any further expansion of the circle of these persons would deviate from the principle of purpose of the provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62529	Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Now we're going to Amendment 14. The War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62530	In part, the amendment shall be accepted with reasons. In Article 102(1), the words ‘public tender’ or ‘advert’ shall be replaced by the words ‘public tender, advertising or in a second way employment procedure’.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62531	Apparition of the War Veterans Committee. A colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62532	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62533	You accept an explanation, then that amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Let's go to the 15th Amendment. It's the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62534	The amendment is not accepted. There is no need to state that the right of advantages in employment cannot be achieved by persons who are not beneficiaries of pensions because the Employment Intermediation and Employment Rights Act is determined that an unemployed person is not, among other things, considered to be a person who is a beneficiary of a pension other than the beneficiary of a pension which is entitled to a disability pension due to a professional inability to work, i.e. a pension beneficiary who is entitled to a disability pension due to a partial loss of employment capacity and a family pension benefit to which that pension is not paid as well as a person who fulfils the conditions for retirement, and as such would not be able to exercise the right to take advantage of employment for unemployed persons referred to in Article 101(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62535	It's an obvious colleague of Orepic's. We also vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 16. Representatives' club Independent for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62536	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, under the common household, there is a community of governance and spending. Family law provides for a mutual obligation to abstain between marriage mates, parents and children. In view of the above, it would not be fair for a Croatian defender and defender whose spouse is unemployed and that Croatian defender or defender whose spouse has high monthly incomes to have the same right to compensation for unemployed Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62537	An obvious colleague, Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62538	The right to compensation for the unemployed, which Croatian defenders enforce by law, should not be a burden on the property censorship of members of their household. I ask you to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62539	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. Well, we're going to Amendment 17 of the Independent Lists' Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62540	The amendment is not accepted. This Article provides for only an exception to the right to one-off cash aid in a administrative procedure which is regulated by Articles 118 to 120. The objective of this provision is to enable, in emergency situations, the achievement of one-time assistance to a maximum amount of 3.326 kuna. According to the amendments, 7 million kuna was spent in 2015 in the context of the previously abolished supply, and a large number of Croatian defenders were suddenly found without any source of income.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62541	It's an obvious colleague of Orepic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62542	I don't really understand why we keep refusing to be organized and just. We have money from the budget, it has to be verifiable and why we keep running from the administrative process. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62543	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We move to Amendment number 18 of the Representatives' Clubs Independent for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62544	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62545	An obvious colleague, Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62546	Well Article 142 is not included PTSD it's devastating, it's... We don't know when it's gonna show up, we don't have the exact details of what's going on across the border, we might have that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62547	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We now move to Amendment 19 of the War Veterans Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62548	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62549	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 20 we've already voted on. We move to Amendment 21 of the Croatian Liberal Democrats' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62550	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62551	It becomes an integral part of the law. We move to Amendment 22 of the Independent Lists' Representatives' Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62552	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons for the amendment are not accepted because this article refers to civil legal proceedings and the law on mandatory relations for occasional claims is a fixed limitation period of three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62553	It's an obvious colleague of Orepic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62554	I really can't believe it again. So if someone falsely exercised rights and realised them, and we define that they falsely exercised those rights, we have no courage or determination to take away everything they've acquired based on false rights. There's a legal mechanism that makes it possible, why we keep avoiding repeating that we're an orderly society. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62555	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We move to Amendment 23 of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62556	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62557	No, no, it's accepted or not accepted If it's accepted then it becomes an integral part of the law, you don't have to explain it. [[Break bear: SE accepts.]] Moving on to the next one is 24 Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62558	The amendment is not accepted. No means of implementation of this provision have been provided since 1.1.2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62559	Explanation of fellow Orepic, and colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62560	Mr. Minister, in Knin on Day of Storm 5.8 at the cabinet session, it was said that the Law on Croatian Defence and all rights derived from Croatian defenders will be applied since 1.1.2018. It is not good to present and send a false message to people who expect them to exercise their rights. And we ask for a vote to be based on the government's promise in Knin on Storm Day to apply this law from that date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62561	Let us also vote on this amendment that has not received government support. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We are moving on to the last 25 amendments of the Independent Lists' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62562	The amendment is not accepted. No means of implementation of this provision have been provided since 1.1.2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62563	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62564	I repeat once again that at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the day of the Storm in Knin, it has been said that funds will be provided and the law will be passed on to all that is provided for in the law. The fact is, it was the deception of people who expect to exercise their rights. It's not the same thing as 1.1.2018 and 1.1.2019, that's the difference a year, and people expected, defenders to exercise their rights. Therefore, I ask you once again to secure the funds in 2018 and that the defenders who have been promised by the Government to exercise the rights promised in Knin require a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62565	We also vote on this amendment that the government does not accept, please. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes, so we would now move to a vote on the final proposal of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, please vote. I find that most votes, 93 votes in favour, 4 votes are abstentions and 15 against the adoption of the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families along with the amendments adopted. I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62566	We move on to the second, that is, the last of today’s Laws. - Final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament; the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, i.e. it shall be final reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate and the debate has been carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Does the representative, I think, want to give an additional explanation here? Ms. Katica Prpić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62567	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, honourable parliamentary deputies and respected parliamentary representatives. The Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section of legislation is authorised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate its regulations the issue of current economic policy from the part of the Croatian Parliament, except for changes in the state budget and regulation of taxes and those issues which only the Croatian Parliament can regulate under the Constitution, at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not regularly meet. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is extremely authorised to regulate individual issues from the part-session of the Croatian Parliament in the period from the date of the disband or the end of the term of office of the Croatian Parliament until the date of the first meeting of the newly elected Croatian Parliament. Except for those questions that only the Croatian Parliament can edit under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament adopted in its first reading at the session held on 13 October 2017 the text of this final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament does not differ from the text of the draft law discussed in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62568	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj. No, first of all, is there anyone on behalf of the board? No, I don't. Mr. Miro Bulj in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. He's gone. Mr. Shipic. Mr. Bull has lost his right. Mr. Šipic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, So lastly, in our first reading, we had the opportunity to discuss this bill, which is not so essentially so large and so wide that it should be debated so much. But here, we can just say briefly, so HDZ will support this bill and it essentially refers to the time when the Government of the Republic of Croatia and at the time when certain issues cannot be brought without the support of saying so to the Parliament, nothing has essentially changed in that important about this proposal. So that the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section of law on 10 December will cease, on that day, a period of one year will expire and in which time period the Government has been given power to make decisions. The government estimates that it still needs to be given the legislative power to adopt regulations on the basis of legal authority. Therefore, here I am not repeating myself, since as I said in the debate there are no objections to its content, the text of the final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament does not differ from the text of the draft law discussed in the first reading. I suggest that this bill be adopted and that, according to us in HDZ, the club goes to an urgent reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62570	Thank you, too. The Proposer doesn't want to add anything. I'm closing the debate. Let me notice that we may be the only Parliament in the world that talks so briefly about such a serious document, but here we are. We'll vote Thursday. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. He's got a different name, but you know him, I'm not gonna tell him. Thank you. The session was interrupted at 5:16 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-11-28-0.u62571	The final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. No. 99, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, please vote. I find that most votes, 94 votes for and 3 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we're starting a new day's work. Today we will be doing the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, Second Reading, as the first point, but before that I have noticed a colleague of Glasnović, here you go.
