ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27558	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The legislative framework for the development of a system of education and education is based on the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools adopted in 2008, as well as the implementing rules resulting from the law. Since 2008, the law has been amended and complemented several times, but these changes and additions have not solved all the observed shortcomings specific to the system of education and education. The law stipulates that, in order to meet the specific needs of students with developmental difficulties, the school institution may, on a proposal from the founder, and with the agreement of the education ministry in the educational process, include assistants in the teaching process or professional communication intermediaries who are not independent holders of educational or teaching activities, and that the minister responsible for education rules prescribes ways to involve and carry out the activities of assistants in the follow-up and professional communications intermediaries, and the conditions that they must meet. However, when implementing that law, there was a need to carry out a procedure to determine whether the student was entitled to support the assistant in continuing or professional communications intermediaries. There has also been a need to prescribe the mode and content of training of assistants in teaching or professional communications intermediaries. Therefore, by this amendment and by supplementing the law, it proposes to create a legal basis for the adoption of a regulation that will regulate those substances and thus enable students with developmental difficulties to be made more accessible to education and education, and better to achieve learning outcomes. Furthermore, the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools adopted in 2008 introduced a licence to work in a school institution as a public document to demonstrate the necessary levels of general and professional competences of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors. The same law prescribes the obligation to adopt rules governing the programme, procedure and way of obtaining a licence for the work of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors, and the rights and duties arising from licensing. Although the obligation to adopt a regulation governing the licensing of directors has been in place since 2008, the licensing procedure has not been initiated so far, and therefore, since 2011, the entry into force of the provision which provides for the director's licence as one of the conditions for the director's work has been delayed. Thus, the 2008 law stipulates that licensing should enter into force by 31 December 2011 at the latest, and that the 2011 law has then moved that period to 31 December 2014. Later, amendments and additions of 2014 introduced Article 126a, which states that the school director, subject to the conditions laid down in Article 126, must also have a licence for the work of the director, and in the transitional and final provisions, it has been established that that provision enters into force as from 1 January 2017. This provision was therefore last amended by law amending and supplementing the law which entered into force on 30 December 2014, under which the obligation to obtain a licence from the Director as of 31 December 2014 was moved by 1 January 2017. Since no basic assumptions have been established to date for the licensing of school directors or no programme for obtaining a licence has been adopted, nor has the procedure and method of obtaining a licence been prescribed, this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Training and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools, it is proposed to delete the provision of Article 126a of the law which prescribes that the Director must have a work licence and that the time limit for obtaining the same on 1 January 2017 and as prescribed in the transitional and final provisions of Article 44. Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools from 2014 With that in mind, I have three important things to stress. First, the licensing obligation laid down in Article 117(5) of the Law remains in force and it shall remain in force and shall read ‘Program, procedure and method of acquisition, issue and renewal of a licence for the work of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors and the rights and responsibilities shall be prescribed by the Minister.’ Thirdly, in those school institutions where the directors of the term of office expire before the entry into force of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, it is proposed to apply a regular institute of acting directors in accordance with the provision of Article 131. The Law on Breeding and Education therein stipulates that the acting director is appointed in the cases prescribed by the Law on Institutions and in other cases where the institution does not have a director. In accordance with the same article of the Act as acting director, a person who fulfils the conditions for a teacher, teacher or expert associate may be appointed. For many years, the educational policy has clearly been defined for the licensing of educational professionals. In addition, meetings with representatives of primary and secondary school directors have highlighted the need to license directors. In this respect, it would stress on 19 June 2015 that the implementation of the project of the Director of Professionals and Qualifications, not a function whose total value of around 2 million kunas with a non-refundable amount, was slightly more than EUR 900,000 co-financed by the European Social Fund and approved for funding under the call for project proposals, improving quality in higher education with the application of the Croatian qualification framework from the operational programme for human potential development 2007-2013. The project is held by the University of Zadar and the Faculty of Education and Educational Sciences and the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek. As part of that project, which lasted until 1 November 2016, a standard of interest was developed by the Director, Director of the Educational and Educational Institute and a standard of qualification of university specialists in the management and management of educational and educational institutions. A month after the project was launched by the Minister of Education and Science on 17 July 2015, he appointed an expert working group for the implementation of the fifth objective of the education, science and technology strategy with the task of drawing up standards of interest and qualifications for the directoral profession, as well as the development of a model for the introduction of a relicencing system for obtaining and retaining a licence for the work of directors in the educational and educational institution. In December 2016, therefore, a month ago, an expert working group submitted a proposal to the Ministry for a model of licensing of directors of educational institutions, and the expert working group also developed a standard of interest and a standard of qualifications for the directoral profession. In 2015, therefore, of the 2 groups of experts commissioned in an almost identical project, since through the project of the University of Zadar and through the work of the expert working group, the ministry will develop very similar standards, led by the principle of responsible and effective management of financial resources in the upcoming period, co-ordinate the work on the creation of a single proposal for standards of interest and qualifications standards. Both holders, i.e. the applicants, confirmed the principle of willingness to engage in joint work on the creation of a single proposal. As a conclusion, it would point out that the licensing obligation prescribed in Article 117(5) of the Law remains in force, which means that the licensing is continued and the provision of the law in accordance with which directors will have to have a licence as a condition of work will be subject to the law at the time when all the necessary conditions for obtaining and implementing the director’s licensing are met, which means, in particular, when a standard of interest and a standard of qualification is adopted, a rule on licensing as well as programmes for the exercise of the licensing of directors and so on. The Ministry of Science and Education will have an intensive approach to the creation of these conditions in the coming period. Here, in accordance with the proposed name, please ask the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposed amendments and amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27559	Representative Sabina Vosovac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27560	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, I think it would be polite to say that in your opening presentation, you apologized to the Croatian education system, directors and the public because, with this bill in the Croatian Parliament, you are only coming today to cause unmistakable damage to the education system in such a way that at this moment, about 60 Croatian schools have no directors because of you, your sloppyness, unhappiness and irresponsibility. Because the competition, 18 competitions already held and 50 competitions that are ongoing in its content as one of the conditions for choice are prescribed by a condition that no one can satisfy, which is the possession of a licence. Realising that free candidates can sue you, you are probably erasing this provision of prolonging the licensing period and completely moving the conditions as such from the bill. I think a fire measure like this is the principle of how it should not be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27561	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27562	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, I personally agree with the prolonging of this provision, I will vote for this law. However, what I want to warn you, what I disagree with, so before I do, I want to warn you that there is a license for a director. In my county, she exists, and you know who's betraying her? The betrayal is the Croatian Democratic Community, so it is in my county. Not the principals. The cleaning lady at school can't be unless she's a member of the Croatian Democratic Community, so that's what you're talking about. What should be done in the future, first of all, to resolve the question of the school board and the selection of directors. This is a purely political choice and it needs to be put to an end. We have three members who choose the founder, the county although with many schools the county has nothing to do with it, because in many schools you don't even have toilet paper, you don't have, the kids when they go after the ball you know then he has to get up to the plum to see where he is in the grass ball. When we ask the janitor why you didn't cut down the river, I don't have any fuel. I say we get some gas. He says I don't even have a trimmer, I have to wear mine. These are the problems we encounter in schools. And I don't see, I claim that in Croatian schools there are a large number of teachers or almost all teachers, teachers, teachers who do their job very well and professionally. They're professional in many parts. If the ministry wants to introduce a special education, special competences that the director would have to have in the future, let the ministry, together with the founder of the regulations that these are, let them test, send them to school, and in the school board, let the teachers sit, return the school chambers and the parents who are interested. Because the law even provides a provision that parents can't be appointed to the school board. A man who's an employee of the school. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Imagine if an employee, and everyone would like it, has seven children, and just because he's a school employee, he can't be a member of the school board as a parent. That's what we have to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27563	Thank you, Representative Sagar. Representative Bojan Glavasevic also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27564	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your presentation. However, I must say that it is completely unworthy and that what you wrote in that law is a dead letter on paper, let me explain why. Because you allowed first of all to kill a curriculative reform that was one of the main tools for the recovery of Croatian education. You have the head of your ministry of a man who's a proven plagiarizer. You have a state secretary of your colleague who discriminates against national minorities and persons with disabilities. You allowed tax reform to break over the back of students who had to make money so they could afford college. You were silent the moment the government in a drunken billionaire's manner had promises of money for planes, for helicopters. 14 to 23 billion kuna for the purchase of INA, and you haven't asked why there isn't a single billion for our students, for our students, for our teachers, for our university, none of which are top 500 in the world. So that's why you kept quiet. And this all you've written in this House may be used by people who sit on the other side and pass, but it's with credibility and it has nothing to do with quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27565	Representative Ivan Lovrinović reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27566	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Schlezek as State Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question. Namely in the current law, so please answer me if there is any provision left that the school principal, primary school, can practically be a nearly unlimited director. Is the new bill defining the duration of the term of office? If not, I was already looking for a break about three or four weeks ago. I suggest that the director be elected no more than twice, no matter whether it be a break between us or not. Why? The arguments for this are, are precisely on the side of this practice that we have that in a significant number of cases, directors have been directors for years and years. There is also a suitable climate and atmosphere for the conveniences of various kinds, the motivation of such people is weakened because they do not have the initial charge, and this also agrees with MP Sagar that the influence of local and political structures is because they choose the director and the other members that it is simply so large that it poisons education at lower levels, meaning higher levels. So please answer this question, because if you go into licensing and you consider it an ultimate achievement, then an integral part of that standard must be to regulate the term of office of director. If you don't do it then you can license the cat on the tail hang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27567	Replication response, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27568	Thank you very much. I'm just going to say that this proposal of yours will be considered. When developing the licensing system that we started on the basis of these two proposals that we received from both the expert working group and the group working on the project and universities in Zadar, it will be considered and will certainly be taken into account when considering and adopting a final proposal for a single system of licensing of directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27569	Representative Zeljko Glasnovic reported on the replica. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation on behalf of the SDP representative club? Yeah. Representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27570	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As you can see, in early December the SDP Club sent the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with only one article, which is to extend the deadline laid down by the Law on Audit for Directors from 1 January 2017 to 1 January 2019. We did this for a reason because we felt that this Croatian Parliament should create all the preconditions to prevent chaos in the system after 1 January 2017, aware of the fact that no work has been done and that there were no preconditions for prescribing to the directors in the competitions the conditions of ownership of the licence if these directors could not or could not obtain that licence. Unfortunately, our proposal for a law in the part where we actually did the government's work, seeing that at the last cabinet session, and before the Croatian Parliament leaves on December 15th, that no draft law has been sent to the government and assessing that what is happening at this time could happen is that more than 60 Croatian schools directors can't be elected, that tenders that prescribe the conditions of possession of a licence that they can't even acquire, mean at this point we have officials in a system in which this should never have come. I am sorry that this bill is not included in the parliamentary procedure before the break, in order to prevent situations like this where people wish justice could seek justice in court and certainly justice for their benefit. It's the first instance of why we've proposed this bill. The government, from what I've heard on the board, has shown itself unable to accept our bill for the reason that the deadline of 1 January 2017 has passed. Well, of course he passed when he didn't put the bill on the agenda here and now it's pointless to discuss damage prevention as such because the damage was done by inaction. First by inaction of the government, and then there would be something to say about why this bill was not proposed here to adopt it and put it on the agenda, to vote on it and to prevent chaos. When we talk about the content, or about the proposal that we have initiated in our bill, which is that the deadline for prescribing conditions for the selection of directors, to include in these conditions and to own a licence, we have longed it, or our proposal to make it January 1, 2019. Why did we propose that deadline? Well, here's an opportunity for you to hear a number of arguments as to why it's a realistic and feasible deadline, just as well as in the opening presentation of Mr. Secretary of State. So after the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology was adopted in this Croatian Assembly in September 2014, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports went straight to work to meet one of the objectives of the strategy, which is to professionalise the role of directors in the Croatian education system with the aim of quality assurance. As we also heard from the secretary of state, we formed working groups that should have been established in accordance with the Croatian Qualifications Framework, but also with the objectives set out in the strategy, in fact, set a standard of interest, a standard of qualification and bring a model for the directors to be licensed in the future. That's how we created the preconditions of course and in the Operational Programme for the withdrawing of the ESF means the assumptions were there. When Mr. Šustar came and later Mr. Barisic actually what they were supposed to do was choose one of the two models offered and start working. However, we are witnessing today that this will not happen. If we take into account the Government's proposal, I have to express my dissatisfaction and say that I find it absolutely unambitious, absolutely out of responsibility, and we absolutely won't help the system in such a way that the Government proposes, which is simply to delete Article 126a, which means that in some way we're giving up the license for a certain time because we haven't set ourselves up some real, so I'm going to say we didn't even dare to set an ambitious goal in accordance with some normal time plan of implementation of the strategy, which is what we want from our system, and when we want to improve the quality of school management. I don't think licensing directors is the only problem of managing or not owning a license and, I don't know, 20 years of ideas, dreaming about licensing and professionalising the role of directors in schools, then 10 years of the existence of that article itself in the law itself, I don't think it's crystallized that it is, is one of the mechanisms on which we can raise the level of management of our schools to a higher level, but of course it's not the only instrument. But if we move now and it means uncertain, it's very uncertain at what point we're going to take steps that are absolutely necessary. There are many countries that already have and have shown that they can very successfully carry out professionalisation through special education and training of directors. You know that our directors are currently coming from the system, they're experts in the section where they work in teaching or as professional associates. But being a headmaster and the law is prescribed, they are professional school leaders, but they are also business heads of school. Unfortunately, there are no studies in the Republic of Croatia, there is no school for directors, there is no possibility that people who are put in a position to manage schools, except for those competences that they acquire through the completion of high-level studies for the precise performance of teaching or school activities in the form of professional associates. So they cannot acquire special competences that should help them manage schools in a quality way, manage human resources well, work on school development plans, improve school profiling through school curricula and work in the interest not only of improving school working conditions and quality of school work but also of connecting with the entire community. Slovenia has, for example, a national school for directors, Austria has an academy for school heads, Italy has an exam for directors in Rome in front of the state commission who are candidates who want to be directors, Malta has a degree study of school management, Sweden has a special college at university level, etc. etc. Croatia has nothing at this time. There are school boards that elect directors, there are school boards that, regardless of what they're made up of, are 4 representatives of the school board coming from the school system and 3 are external as representatives of the founders. Unfortunately, it is still a policy that regardless of what I say about this ratio which seems to be that politics through the founders does not seem to have a dominant position and influence on the school board we know very, very clearly how things in the Croatian educational system function, that unfortunately quality is sacrificed at the expense of obedience and compliance with some of the staff conditions set by political parties in front of directors, and the directors thus have to return services because they have been chosen to hire what they receive from those who have allowed them to be in that position. I think, finally, in this opening work that we don't need to, and we shouldn't have played with the directors in this way. I understand that you may have done this because you did not dare set a deadline because it would be a dangerous legal zone because we do not pass the law before 1 January, or it does not enter into force before 1 January 2017 and now we have certain damages. We have certain candidates who have appeared in public tenders where the terms of the licence were prescribed, and now if we did not lift that condition so that we would only extend the deadline in the transitional and final provisions I think we risk entering this section because we put sixty people in a rather unfavourable position compared to those who competed for directors before them and those who will compete for directors after the entry into force of this law. But this kind of extraction of hot chestnuts, I don't think it's the right way, I mean, the first thing I told you in a replica was that it shouldn't have happened at all and it shouldn't have happened because the state shouldn't allow such luxury. And secondly, I think you should have provided a reasonable deadline, defined very clearly for continuing what has already been done. Unless you intend to do what you do with the curricula reform. It means you've been welcomed by the standard of interest, and the standard of qualification, and two proposed models, but you won't accept it just because you didn't start it and you'll start doing things from the beginning. I hope it's not an emergency. It is a shame because we have already used this project to fund European funds, we have the resources to use European funds both in this year and in the following year. And I don't see any, absolutely no reason why we shouldn't start or continue the operations. Next year we use it to select a model, to figure out where education is going to be, who is going to do the licensing because it will be the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, which is a roof organisation in the education system for quality assurance, which is to ensure quality in school management. Because if we had the licensing or first if we had the required competences to obtain and satisfy a certain director and then through monitoring, the evaluation of the external evaluation of schools followed what this school director had done in order to also evaluate this work that should ensure the renewal of the licence then we would no longer have to discuss in the Republic who has a majority on the school board, whether we would limit the number of directors' mandates or not because we would take a step forward and ensure that those who are qualified first are chosen, who come ready for those positions and in the professional and business segments, this management segment, and on the other hand, we could say that we would be able to make sure that the renewal of the licence is ensured in our mandate as the most qualitative and that have the measurable results that are measured in a measure of how one manages the school, whether in a bad way, whether it leads it is guided by average or guided in an average manner. This proposal, Article 2 dealing with the draft law, which the Government has referred to in the procedure, is fully acceptable to us. The Republic of Croatia has made extraordinary efforts to ensure that any child with difficulties in primary or secondary school is entitled to a personal assistant or assistant in the teaching process. We are very successful here by 2015 using the European Social Fund funds, but now the time has come simply to create a legal assumption, to adopt a regulation that will prescribe how to train these people who work with children with difficulties. And second, let's see how to agree, or how to make a clearer system to prescribe which children exercise the right to assist in teaching. I don't really have any grudges here. On behalf of the club, I can say that we absolutely support it, but in this part where it's not prolonged, someone here in the replica said that it's a prolonging period within which a licence for directors, or possession of one, will be required as a condition for someone to be chosen. I have to say that it's simply not about prolonging the deadline, it's about erasing the deadline, and this is about erasing Article 126a that prescribes the licence as one of the conditions. I think it's a step back. And what I'm only interested in for a little while is why I'm interested in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the first draft that was sent to a public debate that lasted from November 27th to December 3rd to propose that the deadline for obtaining the licence be extended until 2021. A public debate has been held, or consultation with the interested public, to which some 140 proposals have arrived, the remarks. Most of these remarks around 100 concerned the amendment of Article 75, i.e. the return of a corrective period to a school that was not present in this law, and interestingly were some of the participants of the public debate who suggested that no deadline should be prescribed and that the deadline should be prescribed in the law only after the public hearing was held. The government has shown itself in the consultation report in a way that it does not accept it. Now I'm interested in what or who influenced the public consultation on the draft that offered the prolonging of the time-limits, the prolonging of the deadlines until 2021 so drastically changed when they had already rejected these proposals here. So they didn't say we accept so we can say, okay. One draft went to a public hearing. It came through a public debate that most participants want something else, they want that deadline not to be prescribed, they want it to be prescribed only when the rules are made, then I would understand it. But if you come to the Parliament with a completely different draft and stick him to a public debate, and there was no public debate on the proposal at all, but on someone else, then I'm curious about who actually affected the fact that he was giving up, or to delete the license. Who don't the professional school principals respond to? Who's in charge of stalling this situation? Who? The only logical answer that is imposed is the politics and those who want to continue to cheer and dress through school boards to frame similar rather than trained professionally qualified, licensed competent directors. If that's the case, I'm very disappointed with that approach in the 21st century our schools have big problems. They are not bad, but it is time not to close our eyes to the truth that happens in front of Croatian schools, to face the problems they have and try to solve them, not to push our head into the sand, deep, deep into the sand. 'Cause if we raise our heads, we could get hit on by a political stick.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27571	Croatian representative Zekanovic, the first to report for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27572	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. Well, I'm glad that you actually agreed with the proposer, so licenseting. However, I don't understand the dramatics of your presentation. This is 60 principals you're talking about. I got the impression that 60 schools didn't start working. So there's no big problem. Simply in a few days when this adoption process will go, there are... The school's prepared directors work, so I don't see any reason for drama. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if we have 3,000 schools in Croatia, and only 60 principals are in the appointment process, I don't think it's something that needs such drama. And when we talk about drama, I wish I had heard a little bit from you before, and now something about a constant reduction in the school population, where every year we have almost 1,000 children less in the education system. So, every year, 1,000 children are less enrolled, and I hope this will be one of the topics that will be discussed by the Ministry of Education together with the Ministry of Demography to deal with and work on. And I see you always need to mention curricula reform. That's right, I'll get attached to that. It's your expert group headed by Yokic that you set up that didn't do the job because experts are supposed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27573	The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27574	The expert working group led by science doctor Boris Jokic was not our expert working group, but the Croatian expert working group, which led one of the most demanding projects in the history of the Croatian education system, I will also dare say in the history of the Croatian state. Secondly, I dramatize it because it is an incredible ease to undermine very serious things and to relativise not only on this matter, but also on the matter of the Minister and his plagiarism and on the discriminatory statements of Secretary of State Gluncic towards children with developmental difficulties, national minorities and the accusations of other countries to cheat on PISA research. Well, look, maybe things aren't dramatic. I may react emotionally like this, but education is very emotional. I care about the education system. I don't care how and how they teach children in Croatian schools, in which conditions our teachers, teachers, teachers and directors will work. I care about that. If you call it dramatization okay, I can't turn my heart off or I want to. I think if you do something first of all you have to believe what you're doing, and here's the dramatic situation isn't, but it's on the verge of legality because schools are run by performers not because they wanted to, but because the Government of the Republic of Croatia didn't ensure that schools can be managed by those who need to manage them, and these are directors. That's why I think this is a very serious situation and there's no excuse. You can see that even the secretary of state didn't replicate mine, responded to my first replica. And that says a lot about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27575	Thank you. Representative Josip Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27576	Thank you very much. My colleague Glasovac, I really don't see the need for such dramatic tones here today in this debate in a law that has several articles, one similar to what you have proposed as a club, because the fact is that this licensing obligation exists since 2008 and it's been a while since that day that this law came into force. And there have been a lot of stories about it, so you can't even loudly escape from your own responsibility because you've had a chance to fully edit that system in the last four years. You were the assistant minister, there were the great minds of Zelenika, Jovanovic was Mr. Andricevic, a colleague of the Navy's former minister, so there was a time for four years to get rid of it since the obligation existed. It didn't work out, it was delayed as it is now. And I don't really see the need to dramatize it the way you started it because V.D. the Director or the Director's office is also a legal solution. It's not on the verge of legality, it's a legal solution, and the laws recognize it. So I think we can discuss this today. What we expect, especially we in power, is to discuss a whole Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary education that will then solve some problems that are much greater than this problem. Because the question of licensing the director himself may not be the most important thing to me because we have successful and unsuccessful directors today and today and today we have those licenses or we don't have a license, and we need to see what that license brings them, given the financial opportunities they can manage in the future because they always depend on someone else, not on their own ability, and these are the only facts So I think when we talk about this topic, I come from the Primorje-Gorski County SDP is there [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] put everyone in their own way and we can't talk in a different way. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27577	I thank Representative Boric. The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27578	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. You told Borić that there were a lot of stories about licensing for several years, so there was a lot of talk that from the moment the provision entered into the law, I think it was 2006 or 2007 and by 2014 there was a lot of stories, and then in 2014 we developed this story, not us in the ministry but experts developed it through the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology, and after this Croatian House committed us as a body of state authorities to work and it turned that story into work. You also heard in the opening presentation of Mr. Schlezak, the working groups that should have developed the standard of interest, the standard of qualification, so to prescribe everything that should be the competences of future directors, which should be minimum standards and we left, we did, not say again by experts, but by which we gave the green light and managed by dynamics of these processes, we left two models between which we can now choose or in some way unite them into one third. So the claim that there's been a lot of talk about it, and you're putting me in charge of being an assistant, I've been involved in this whole thing that I've told you about what we've done since the adoption of the strategy to this day. So I don't see my personal responsibility here, we really did what we could and needed according to the strategy. And this one, yes, is not on the verge of the legality that manages the schools of V.D. It can happen. But for the first time in history that actually gives you a V.D. They set up because no candidate satisfied the competitions that prescribed something that none of them could have had.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27579	Thank you. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27580	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, you've actually touched one far more important question, and licensing a director is only one part of it, and that's what we want from our school system, where we see it, in which direction we develop it. Curricular reform has been stopped. The time to fix this detail was over. We heard yesterday from the prime minister when he was in a assembly that kept saying he wanted to listen to constructive proposals from the opposition. And here's when we give them away. Then I can't even put myself up for debate. So we could fix this segment, we could find a solution, we suggested it, but it wasn't, there was no hearing about this proposal because it came from the opposition. I can only conclude that the chaos in the system suits someone. To who and why? We can speculate on that, we can discuss it here. But what's important for the functioning of every school, is that all the colleagues and colleagues who worked in the system, is a very important collective, a good atmosphere in the collective, and a well-organized school. It takes a good, educated and therefore prepared school management, which in this case is the director, plus of course professional services, but for professional service, this law does not apply to their licensing and professional training takes place permanently. So if we want an efficient, good school we have to start and change from the top, from the director who will be able to motivate the collective, who will know how to direct the collective. We have a lot of successful directors and directors, and they just need to learn from them and take over their work models. I think licensing the director would be a good step in this direction, that the proposal that the government has proposed is not good because it is absolutely deleted from the law, so the question is whether the licensing for the director will come back at all, but our proposal I think is real and it came in time. And why didn't they listen to him? It's on their soul.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27581	Thank you. Representative Voter wants to score.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27582	Not the point, but the answer to the line. A colleague, Hajdukovic, remains in the law, a provision which in principle prescribes licensing in such a way as to say that there will be or will be licences not only for directors but for teachers, teachers and professional associates. And this is the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia, meaning not only to license directors but also to license other employees in the system, so all those who work with children, and that in this way, I say again in the context of this major quality assurance project through internal and external evaluation, we can evaluate any teacher, teacher, expert associate or director. However, it remains in the law, but what is shaving is any idea if we could take this first step, which is the licensing of directors, and there are already some advances that have gone quite far, although I must inform you that we have not been in place or in the matter of creating conditions for the licensing of teachers, directors and professional associates. It's the same thing that was going on. It is not at such a mature stage, but in all this I spoke here when it was debated the trust of Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic's government and warned about what would happen if the Republic of Croatia gave up quality assurance and halting projects to license directors, teachers, teachers, professional associates. That's when I said what stage these projects were in. Unfortunately, since then, as far as the dynamics of these projects are concerned, almost nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27583	Thank you, MPs, the Voter. Representative Blaženko Boban answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27584	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Voice when someone watched your presentation here and did not have materials on the bench will assume that you spoke on behalf of the club, one of the clubs within this assembly, because you agreed with the bill, the work of the law regarding assistants in the teaching, you agreed with this, on behalf of the promoter i.e. The Ministry, except in the section of the article of which you are talking about where you are in your proposal, which requested a deadline on the benches on 1 January 2019. When you spoke in the replica to the secretary of state and began to tell the principals, then I felt the oh, here's a conscience that will work. I would like to remind you, therefore, that the law is the first time where licenses are mentioned in 2008, today in 2017, you came to 2014 in order to extend the deadline of 1 January 2017 by virtue of the law. And I'm saying, I guess an apology will go that way, when no excuse goes to the directors for the negativity of this government imagine from half of November to the end of the year in a month and a half. Really... I'll beg you, Mr. President, so I can finish my thought. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Indeed, it is not correct, if all of them need to go from 2008 to today, they should be incinerated with ash. And I really agree that licensing is necessary and that in this way we can all apologize together to the directors from 2008 to today and who in which period do you assess it yourself. And here, through one replica, you just said about But nothing ok, time's up. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27585	Thank you. The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27586	You're saying we had 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015? So that we are probably taught the way you work should have been a policy as soon as we came to the ministry to say now policy will determine how directors will license themselves. We didn't do it, we formed a team of 100 people we gave our hands to. So the Science, Education and Technology Strategy says that licensing in the law should include whether it is the function of the director who should remain as they are now elected to office or those directors should be professionals who will be deprived of certain interests and influences that choose them to function. [[Intruder President: I ask you to refrain from commenting.]] And through the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology, these people have said very clearly in the work of repeating quality assurance what the Republic of Croatia should do in terms of quality assurance and future vision so that the directors in this education system should function. If this is our sin that we released in 2012 and 2013 and part of 2014 that experts tell us what they think is the right way I accept your criticism and I apologize that politics has not interfered, which has given the profession to do what it knows best. And that's my whole answer and replica to you. I do not agree with eradicating, I have made it very clear, and I am bitter in the way the government is doing, I say what this bill did not send before December 31st, and I will repeat it all day long if it should, because it has put it in a position to conduct competitions where no candidate can meet the prescribed requirement, where no one can simply satisfy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27587	Time. Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27588	My colleagues agree with you as former assistant minister from 2011, it seems to me, until 2014, that the shorter it was, because you left with a colleague Jovanovic from the ministry, I think, I did not follow well enough. But the fact is that you are, in part, right that the likes are directors and that the school boards are similar but that is obvious to the example of the Split-Dalmatia County and in the area of my city. That just literally a cleaning lady can't get a job if she's not in HDZ. But there's one specific example I'm going to tell you now, so he was the director, a competition for the principal of Fr. Pavel Vukkovic's primary school. Of course, the HDZ has a majority of the school board appointed that director and his opponent, i.e. The second candidate was SDP. You know what happened to that candidate who lost to the SDP? The head of school is in Split because Split is the mayor of SDP. And that's how you handled these things both. If I can use names and last names, it's not a problem at all. He who lost in Sinj SDP's candidate went to Split because he is the founder of Split school and in Sinj is the founder of schools county. And that's how it worked. Less cared about those free strategies, and many experts, as in Zagreb, have free textbooks and even donates free textbooks to other cities of the primary school while there are no elementary schools in undeveloped areas, have free textbooks, have no organised transportation. It took less care of those 100 of your professional people, that's the situation that's on the ground. Simply likeness and sorcery on my right side and on my left is even. As a result, in 2002 the Office of State Administration was established in order to control the counties that literally only have an office to entangle and to direct decentralised funds to municipalities and cities both in education and in health homes [[The President's incursion: Time.]] to guide [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[The Intruder President: Representative Miro Bulj thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27589	Thank you. The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27590	Mr. Bulj, you know so much how the system of competence works for individual issues in the Republic of Croatia. You know very well that ministerial assistants, ministers, only the ministry that pays for all school employees has absolutely no impact on their employment in teachers, teachers, professional associates, and even less influence on the selection of directors. So, this ministry, it's an absurd one situation where we pay a paid account, and it's the founders who manage schools. You have now found one of the directors, one of the SDP's directors, as you said, I don't know from a table in Split-Dalmatia County, probably alluding to being excavated by a man who is no longer a member of the SDP. I really can't... What do I have to do with it? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I really don't even know who it's about. [[Intruder President: Representative Bulj, please refrain from commenting.]] It's nothing. [[Adversity President: Representative Bulj.]] You found one SDP director of 100 of them in Split-Dalmatia County, not 100 but 50 sure. ... And may I answer you? [[I don't understand.]] Actually, it's not, it's all clear. You don't need an answer. You're provoking.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27591	I'd like you to refrain from commenting. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27592	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Bulj hurt Article 238. Rules of Procedure. I think a colleague of the Voice couldn't give her replica at all in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think that's correct at least, and it's not even Lordman's colleague Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27593	I agree. I warned Agent Bull. I couldn't agree more. Indeed, I would ask all MPs at the moment when one of their colleagues is exposed to the problem either through exposure or through replication or through reply to the replica, refrain from commenting. You have different options to express your opinion. Use all those opportunities given to you by the Rules of Procedure, but do not speak while one of your other colleagues delivers an opinion. It's not appropriate. Representative Bojan Glavasevic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27594	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Voter, you have said in your statement that what this law proposes is unambitious and that it will not help the system. My fellow Glasovac, everyone who knows you a little better knows that you are a person with great faith in people, you believe that until proven otherwise that this government and the Ministry of Science and Education are doing a bona fide. You said unambitiously, and I agree that it is unambitious to improve the quality of Croatian science and education. But I think it's very ambitious to destroy him. The whole of Croatia, recently and the world, if we look at Nature magazine a very important magazine, is scandalized by the devastation of the quality of the Croatian education system and by who is at the helm of the policy that shapes it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27595	Representative Glavasevic, I would really ask you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27596	I stick to the subject completely. So I refer to what my colleague Vosovac said was unambitious and it won't help the system. So that's why I'm really not sure you can interpret the bona fide work of this ministry and the people who run it. You also asked, and I quote, "Whom does that suit?" To this fellow Glasovac there is a very clear and very simple answer, and he reads "it is known".
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27597	Replicate response, MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27598	Thank you, Mr. Glavasevich. Oh, there you are right, actually a year into the education system in the most beautiful scenario I'll say nothing happens. But it actually happens to her some processes where certain projects are stopped and okay, okay. If someone thinks these projects are bad, so let them tell the public, it's not good. But what concerns me is absolutely, to say no vision. I haven't heard from her in over a year, okay. I've heard from the government, from the ministry's representatives, that this reform, say, is not good, they've found her 100 grudges. But I haven't heard in which direction, which is what this government is offering, which is what this ministry is proposing. So there's a lot of detected call problems and you throw away what people have been doing before, but without offering a clear alternative. And now that we look at this professional, public consultation on this bill that was faked here, it means that it was actually prescribed to this law but not implemented to it, then you will see that all 140 of these are rejected, only one is accepted, one is the gentleman who is president of the Croatian Catholic Society of Educational Workers, who in one media is under the supervision of Zeljka Markic, and I quote: “In Kurikul too much space is given to civil education and other religions to the heart of Catholic religious science. A comprehensive curricula reform imposes discriminatory harmful proposals, so he says in a public debate an undesirable situation in the school system that has been seriously collapsing under the pressure of SDP and Jokic's harmful Well, it seems that one man has influenced this law. [[Intruder President: Representatives Voter I would like to ask you, just a moment.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27599	I asked first the representative Glavasevic, now you, and after that I will take the floor away. I will not allow discussion of the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The 74th turn into a debate here where you will discuss the right and left sides on completely other topics than what is proposed in the amendments to this bill. So you will either stick to the topic or you will seek other options that can alert you to problems in the education sector. I don't have a problem with that. I'd like you to take advantage of all your options. Thank you. Vice President Reiner. ... Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner, you don't understand.]] Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27600	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27601	I'm sorry, I didn't notice any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27602	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you have actually violated my right to speak on the subject of the established agenda. This is a topic because if you have looked at little materials that are part of the bill's proposal then you can see that there is also a public consultation with the interested public, and I was just quoting the only person whose remark was accepted by all 140. Trade unions have been rejected, professional associations of primary, secondary schools directors have been rejected, numerous employees of the primary and secondary education systems are denied, only one observation is accepted, and this is where I said where man is accounted for with full curricula reform, Jokic's empty and harmful reform, etc. I was actually just trying to point out that there might be nothing here by chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27603	It's hardly an accident in life. Representative Sagar has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27604	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Voice, you have opened two important topics that I wanted to touch in this replica in the part where I agree and disagree. So, what I agree, we're late for the processes that we should have already completed. I think in that sentence, there are no urgent matters only people who are late, with every law that carries urgency we should write late. So there are different European experiences, I think that the Netherlands has a very high school which is a formal education director, while, let's say, Slovenia has introduced a rather rigorous system in which only those teachers and teachers who have passed certain levels of only training can run. You stated very well, in our law there is a provision under which the principal is the professional and business head of the school. I particularly stress, the professional head of school, and defined as in many countries for five years directly educational work. So that's a very important condition for a director. It is incomprehensible to me in Article 100 of the Law that all are stated to participate in educational work other than the principal. I don't see how that could have happened in that law, but here it is. So our teachers, our professional associates, our principals, they go through a constant improvement. Let's not forget, counterpart Lovrinovic even proposes to limit the mandate. That teacher or professor he's coming back he's a teacher and he's coming back to be a teacher again. He's constantly perfecting himself. That licence should then be harmonised, if the teacher gets a license, then it should also apply to the principal. Now back to what we're talking about business. the school board, so many members come to you once for a session of the school board, only when the headmaster is elected with a note to choose. If the school board had an obligation to really manage the school, for example, members of the school board would. ensure the transport of students would then be treated slightly differently. We even have a deputy director, what is this man doing? We didn't define that. And most of the funds, you're right, come from the state budget and it's incomprehensible, and because of the state of the municipalities that have no financial resources, the municipalities have specifically been excluded from the selection of members of the School Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27605	Time. Thank you. I'll just give you a brief warning. We've applied a little bit of a different function just so it won't be too much time outside the box, so we're warning you five to ten seconds before you run out of time, that's something we've already announced once after the presidency. So, five to ten seconds before you run out, you'll hear that we're going to mention that it's time for you to finish your thought. Representative Vesna Bedeković asked for it. Excuse me. There was a response to the replica. I apologize to Representative Bedekovic, just let it be a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27606	Mr. Sagar, I agree with you. The directors were also brought into a schizophrenic situation that no decision could be made without the consent of the school board. And the school board, in a very nice way, despite the fact that the founders' representatives have a minority on the school board, are very often able to hold that fourth vote and those directors to implement the school's decisions, uninterrupted work is often conditioned by certain employment that they have to carry out, if they want to get support for that same policy for their next term of office. And we would actually through licensing and through professionalization and through repositioning and considering in general the need for the existence of the school board as the bodies elected by the leader in the way he chooses it now, but of course not by taking away the founder of management rights to make decisions and taking responsibility through his representatives for the functioning of the institution in whose jurisdiction it is, we would thus solve a lot of trouble and employees in primary and secondary schools who more or those who predicate it to be, pressure, political pressure. We would also make it very easier for the directors to make the best decisions for the school for the best decisions for society, not for decisions that will please those on whom their second term depends. And I think this way of professionalising, now whether they're going back to school or whether they're going to go to some other countries after that in the sphere of inspection as an advisory and supervisory body at school institutions, that's something we can and should talk about. But I don't think you should give up licensing as one of the quality improvement mechanisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27607	Thank you. Representative Vesna Bedeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27608	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My fellow Glasovac, I have listened carefully to your opening presentation and all your replicas so far and with all due respect to you somehow I can't help thinking that you're using the strategy all the time, the attack is the best defense and this problem that we have here in practice, so the law has been implicated in practice, you're raising all the time to one level that I'm experiencing as politicizing. Namely, your proposal to amend the law, which goes after the fact that once again, the deadline for the licence is extended once again as an obligation on 1.1.2019, I am in some way experiencing the recognition of your own inaction, as you have said on several occasions, of your failure. Chronology of Inaction, 27 February 2012, former Education Minister Jovanovic is under way to license the principal of primary schools, and Croatia will introduce the licensing of primary schools as a new way of choosing them to evaluate their work according to objective criteria announced by the minister. 7 February 2013 is a special education and a limited mandate for the Director. The ministry intends to introduce licences for directors that have been announced for several years and are also a legal obligation. On 3 April 2014, therefore, this is with the meetings of the principals of primary and secondary schools, Minister Jovanovic, the obligation to license professional associates, but the director exists for a long time, but unfortunately it has not yet been introduced and our priority is. Sabina Glasovac 9.3.2015 Assistant Minister For licensing is separated 200 thousand kuna, we need to define three key things standard of qualifications of directors, regulation of procedure and programme [[The President's incursion: Time.]] I'm just asking you a concrete answer. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] In 2015, what was specifically done by the end of the term of office? [[Break president: Representative Vesna Bedeković thanks.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27609	Representative Vesna Bedeković, please keep an eye on the time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27610	So I've been talking all morning about what's been done, exactly what's promised, what you've quoted me as a standard of profession, a standard of qualifications and two model licensing. So that's it. Secondly, you find it interesting that I also politicise and we are, politics is meant to propose a law that should take effect by 31.12.2016 in order to avoid chaos in the system and politics is not to classify and not refer that law to the parliamentary procedure and cause the system of chaos. Interesting but basically correct, that's your policy. It's my politics that I tried to solve the problem, do the work of the government and your majority. Why didn't you say so? I'd raise my hand for it first. And politics is what you're doing, so politics is, instead of solving problems, instead of coming here with this law by 31.12. you created the problem, so we now have 60 V.D.s instead of having a director. And you in HDZ are really acting like you forgive the expression but three monkeys. One closes his ears, one closes his eyes, one closes his third mouth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27611	I'd like to ask the MPs for silence, please, I'm asking you not to turn this into such a discussion. The assembly does not need tensions in such a way as to offend other members, other colleagues. Make sure your colleagues want it or not. A representative of Mile Horvat asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27612	Thank you. Dear colleagues of the Voice you encouraged me to this replica with a conclusion in the last part of your debate where you said that politics through the founder plays a certain role in the appointment of directors, in determining school boards, etc. So if I'm allowed to, I'd just spread it here and say one more fact: the founders have one illegal behavior and that's ignoring the law, so I'm talking about individual founders. What's this about? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Law on Education and Education and the Units of Local Self-Government gives municipalities the opportunity to request the transfer of founding rights from founders. And the founder of the current county has, therefore, a legal deadline for the same member to respond to that initiative or to the request of local self-government units. We have a case that three councils of the Municipality of Borovo, Markusica and Negoslavci submitted a request just 2 years ago for the transfer of founding rights to Vukovar-Srijem County and, of course, to the day of today's Vukovar-Srijem County as the founder of schools in that county did not respond to this request. So one logical question arises whether we are an EU member state that ignores its own demands, and the question is how is it that no one from the competent ministry has responded to the fact that there has been a political will in the councils and three municipalities to take over the founding rights of primary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27613	The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27614	My dear colleague, I know exactly what you're talking about because this article, or the improvement of this article of the law, is defined in the latest amendments and additions adopted in this high home in December 2014 and you are the complete management of the law, in fact, that there is a certain difference between the authority of the founder or founder has full freedom in school management. However, in your situation, it is the founder, or county, who does not want to allow the application of the legal provision in certain schools in Vukovar-Srijem County. And the inspection I don't know if she was going out on the field, whether it was an educational inspection, but I think there's a future where I welcome the decentralisation of the education system to go to decentralisation, to transfer management rights to the founders regardless of the cities, municipalities or county. However, I think that this interrelationship will still have to be better regulated and the responsibilities of the founders in the doing but also in these cases in the inaction or ignoring of the legal provisions. And you're right about that is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27615	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27616	So Miss Glasovac, I think you would agree and also our friend here from the ministry that this battle for the system, the school system gets on a tactical level. I'm wondering this, maybe you're better acquainted. I was at this meeting of that school board. Who asked teachers in making this law under what conditions do they work? Is there one standard procedure for all of them? We know, each organization is evaluated by training, education, and filling and equipment. As much as you need a teacher, I mean, in elementary school, you know, the teacher's attitude, the students' attitude, etc. What about languages that have been neglected, such as German and other languages. I've been told by some teachers, no one asks them about making this law. The other thing is the general school system. No one's saying I haven't heard at all in those school discussions one key word, and that's ethics and morality, because that's our key problem. We remember this, we remember the Index affair from that former system, and these are our biggest problems of ethics and morality not just in school. We remember when we were getting to say where he was in that system you could buy a diploma there from the Đura Pucara old, come by bus here. How many teachers have falsified diplomas and the Fruscogorian doctorate, it was standard procedure. You can still shop today. That's the question of ethics. And one word is always left out and it's an individual responsibility, because without that word ethics and morals, the responsibilities are not just floscules. This is all, this whole system unattainable about the training of these teachers I was amazed yesterday by people who here have PhDs and openly falsify history. The school system doesn't have a future with people like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27617	Thank you. The distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27618	Comrade Glasnović, you're right there. You were talking about languages. Good Croatian education system has a mandatory language in elementary school, it is an English language that has been taught since the first grade of primary school. After that, he enters the program and another mandatory language. There are also models where other languages can be learned academically, given the preferences of students, and the organisation and possibility of offering certain schools. However, our system needs radical changes. It is in this program section in our schools that you are still learning from the programmes of the 1990s. Our vocational schools have in one part changed programs, updated them, used funds, so we managed to improve a small part and modernise the curricula. However, we do, we have a lot of problems. When you mentioned the working conditions in which schools work, I think that through the use of funds, we can do a lot to ensure better conditions of work in infrastructure, and as far as the standards of teachers, teachers and teachers themselves are concerned, here I would like to see that in these years, that they have fulfilled the commitments they have signed with the trade unions in 2006 and the eleventh year that all these teachers, teachers who have sacrificed for years, have reduced their rights. At a time when GDP is and the state in the country allows them to be the first, that they will feel it first. For a year, however, the government has been silent at the request. We also saw Prime Minister Plenkovic on the current watch that he replied that the government has no intention of fulfilling that promise. When you talk about the Index affair and about buying exams, about fakeing diplomas, doctorate ha, here I'm just asking you why you didn't say a word here in Parliament about now. The last situation of Mr Barisic... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27619	Please, let's not exceed the time, because then we take the right to other colleagues to speak. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27620	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, colleagues of the Voice. I have closely followed your debate in which you have touched all the important issues related to the functioning of schools of quality, vision, standards, working conditions, school boards, directors, and, of course, I assume that your debate was somewhat dramatic that the ultimate goal of children's welfare was. In one sentence you stated, and it's not good when you push your head into the sand and that I agree with you, but I don't suppose you're familiar with, say, two, three days ago with one situation in the area of the Varazdin County. The portals, the media, are full of headlines: "The juvenile Filip Bajsic has been manipulated, and the reformists will inform the Ombudsman about it for children." The Varazdin SDP child has been used as cannon meat and I still don't list what it is. There is currently a shift being carried out in Varazdin by the hospital's director. That's what SDP and HNS used the kids to do. So, a high school student is a member of the Youth Council, a member of the Youth Forum, and is signed as a young minister of science, education and is looking for the replacement of a director and member of the Governing Council who is not in favour of her shift. I hope you colleagues get to know this case, and since it's a minor child, you condemn the behavior of your colleagues in Varazdin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27621	My fellow Uncle, this is all you've been saying really has nothing to do with the subject, so I'm asking you all as nicely as any of your other colleagues to stick to the subject. Here you go, sir. You're here for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27622	Mr. Vice President, I wanted to warn you that my colleague hurt Article 232. The Rules of Procedure, but here you actually said everything I wanted to say, so thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27623	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas. Replication response. He didn't answer? Okay. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? ..../ A break-in on the side, you don't understand. You don't have to get a reply to the replica. I understand your frustration, but you don't have to get an answer to the replica. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate now. I ask you nicely in the debate we stick to these bill proposals that we have before us, these two proposals that we are carrying out the unification of the debate. I understand the interest and desire of many to improve education and education in all possible ways, but I must say that we still have to concentrate on those bill proposals that we have ahead of us. It doesn't mean in any case any narrowing of the right to talk about everything in terms of education and education, but if we're expanding the subject, I'm afraid we're not going to achieve the right goal. We spent five hours yesterday on one topic that we've all agreed on from the very beginning. And then a man asks himself a question, a good point, and probably both the viewers and the people who listen to us. So, please, let's concentrate on these two suggestions in our performances. So, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the first one will speak for the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27624	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary Mr. Schlezak, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In view of the joint debate on the Amendments and Completion of the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools, I would like to point out that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support that proposal addressed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for discussion and propose amendments and additions to Articles 99 and 126 of the same law. As regards the proposal to supplement Article 99, as the State Secretary has already explained in the opening statement. It is related to the regulation of the process and the way in which assistants are involved in teaching or professional communication intermediaries in order to meet the specific needs of students with developmental difficulties. The law stipulates that the school institution, on the basis of a proposal from the founders, and with the agreement of the Ministry of Education in order to meet the specific needs of students with developmental difficulties in the educational process, may include assistants in the teaching or professional communication intermediaries, whereby the minister responsible for education sign means of including and performing the work of assistants in the follow-up. What happened in practice? Therefore, since the entry into force of this provision, in the meantime, when implementing these provisions, it has been demonstrated that there are in practice different approaches to training assistants in the follow-up and equally different procedures in the exercise of the rights of students with difficulty to assist in the follow-up. Therefore, the provision of Article 99(1) of the Law is complemented by the way in which it is prescribed that, with the means already described and the involvement and performance of the work of the assistants in continuing to be prescribed and the conditions to be met by the additional minister responsible for education, two other things are prescribed by the Regulation. First, the way and content of training assistants in teaching and professional communications intermediaries. And secondly, uniformly to prescribe a way of exercising the right of students with developmental difficulties to assist in teaching. These two additions would create a legal basis for the adoption of a regulation which, unequivocally, would regulate the process of exercising the right of students with difficulty to assist in the follow-up. The second thing, the way and content of training assistants in continuing to work with students with difficulties, which would contribute to better availability of students with developing difficulties in the system, and also to the quality of access and help students with difficulties. As regards the second proposal, it is related to erasure as you have already heard the provisions of Article 126a of the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school, which is prescribed that the school director, subject to the conditions laid down in Article 126 of the Law, must be licensed as a condition for the Director. In this regard, I stress that this amendment and the addition of the law do not alter those provisions relating to the regulation of the director's work, but only deletes that provision which prescribes that the work licence of the directors is a condition that the director must have in order to meet the conditions for selection as director. What are the reasons for the motion to delete this provision? In fact, the law you have already heard, I will only briefly repeat, the Law on Training and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools, which was adopted in 2008, prescribes the obligation to adopt a regulation which, among other things, will be regulated by the program of licensing of directors, and then the procedure and way of obtaining a licence, its issue and what is very important, therefore, its renewal so that the directors can continue their work in their future mandates. It is equally familiar to you, although the obligation to adopt this Regulation has been in place since 2008, until today, the Regulation has unfortunately not been adopted, and the licensing procedure has not been initiated, and the entry into force of the provisions which have been prescribed by the licence as one of the conditions for the selection of the Director since 2008 has been extended on several occasions, more specifically this would now be the fourth time if we decided to extend the deadline. So the last prolonging was in 2014 when this deadline was moved on 1 January 2017. By way of derogation from Article 126a, Article 126a of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council provides for the provision of a licence for the selection of a principal of no school institution in the Republic of Croatia, which does not meet this requirement because the licensing system has not been established and, of course, the directors could not have been as already knownly licensed. And we are currently in practice in the situation that somewhere in 18 schools in Croatia today, a procedure has already been carried out for the selection of directors, however, it is not possible to appoint a director because none of the registered persons has a licence that is a condition. And here, from January to April of this year, are the mandates of about a hundred elementary schools, and there by mid-year, about 150 secondary schools. And as has already been said until the appointment of directors in these school institutions, the duties of directors will be acted by officials. Of course, this possibility is not and can be a permanent solution and of course what will be an implications in practice is a reduction and a reduction in the quality of work in primary and secondary schools. Now, what is important here for the prominent licensing of a director as one of the conditions for making a choice must precede the adoption of a regulation which requires the setting up of a programme, procedure, way of obtaining a licence and its issue and relicencing. However, two key elements need to be filled in to make the right decision. So first of all, since the purpose of licensing the director is, among other things, their professionalisation in accordance with the Croatian Qualifications Framework, to adopt a standard of interest that will cover all the tasks the director performs and all the competences he needs to carry out in order to do the job. And it is equally necessary to adopt a qualification standard for the directorial profession which will then include all learning outcome sets and ways to evaluate, evaluate and verify them. Another important thing based on the standard of interest and qualifications should be to design an appropriate model, so select an appropriate model which will then form the basis for establishing a system of licensing as a whole and the system will then include a programme, process, way of obtaining a licence, way of issuing it, way of relicencing or restoring one whole. In view of the complexity of this, therefore, you can see that this is a whole process, so given the complexity of this issue of the HDZ club, the introduction of a licensing system of directors is a complex process that requires a well-measured, very serious and thorough approach without giving another one in a set of legal deadlines more precisely this would be the fourth deadline for its implementation only to meet the form of licensing of directors as an obligation already on the contrary, we believe that attention instead of being given to the content that must be deprived of any ad hoc solution so that the once-established licensing system in practice can live and function without being deficient as a consequence of the pressure of any speed of its introduction. So the position of the club licensing continues, so the process of starting licensing goes but for the seriousness of access without giving another new deadline. In addition to this, we can add the fact that so far we have proposed two models of licensing, one of which is the University of Zadar and another of the Expert Working Groups appointed by the Minister of Science and Education. So also the fact that the proposal for a standard of interest and standards of qualifications for the directoral profession of the ministry arrived in October and November 2016, and therefore also models were delivered to the ministry somewhere if I listened well and carefully in December, so last year. It is therefore incomplete not a month before the expiry of the legal period of the provision when the licence provision was to enter into force as a condition for the selection of the Director. For this reason, the HDZ Representatives Club considers that the application of the director’s licensing model is first necessary to monitor in practice which will then show how much time it takes to implement it and not just to implement it, but also the evaluation after which the licensing system can be established as a whole and what is very important and most important, and according to what I have already mentioned taking account of the content rather than the form so functionally and effectively live in practice. And then after the functioning of the licensing system is shown in practice, a legal deadline will be regulated when, to which the introduction of the licence as a condition for the selection director will be a legal obligation. And what is particularly important is that the relevant attention should be paid to that section of the licensing system relating to the licensing process, so the renewal of the licence to be followed in continuity after the first licence and it is closely linked to the introduction of a quality assurance system in primary and secondary education as one of the essential objectives of the education, science and technology strategy. Therefore, the introduction of a quality assurance system involves two essential segments, which are only the evaluation and external evaluation of primary and secondary institutions according to clearly established quality standards with relevant indicators, which would then be necessary and must be indicators of the performance and effectiveness of the director’s work when the licence is renewed. Therefore, on the basis of these criteria, it is therefore necessary to verify and assess the director's work. In this respect, the introduction of a quality assurance system in primary and secondary education should be a process that will take place in parallel with the introduction of a system of licensing of directors. Therefore, for all these reasons which I have cited and explained, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education, which has been referred to by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which proposes amendments and additions to Articles 99 and 126 of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27625	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27626	Thank you very much. We are indeed discussing two laws today in a united debate, one is the government's proposal, the second is the SDP club's proposal. The difference is some kind of deadline that's interpreted here as ambitious. So the SDP proposed a deadline, which they claim is ambitious, in 2019 we would have dealt with it. However, we also have their actions, we heard a clear apology from Mrs. Voter for the sin of indemnity in her term while she had all the leverage to solve this problem as well as the minister who was in charge of it. And I think that debate is going on in that part. What's problematic is what we heard and that's one of the lies the lady said today, and that's that the minister has no authority in the appointment of the principal of primary or secondary schools when it's not true because we had a case where one principal of the primary school in Vukovar, who was also our colleague in the previous term, the minister did not want to appoint, and we also have a case from Ploč where three repeated competitions for directors are because the minister refused to give consent. So we're looking for your apology because it's obviously not true. So the minister has quite the authority to appoint a director and you can't become a director unless the minister gives you consent. That's what needs to be fixed. I think that we will still have to agree today that it is good that we do not have a deadline, given that many of the actions that preceded the system itself that should be licensed by future directors are incomplete and that it takes some time to apply and professionally assess to what level can really go with this proposal, because the fact is that we will also have a wide discussion of what is the possibility of the principal of primary or secondary school itself, given that he has founders, that he has school approvals that are generally politically chosen depending on whether the SDP or HDZ or someone else in power in the counties or large cities, and that in some parts of the interference and the very qualifications they have and the current certain people who can be directors. So it's one big debate, and it's good to say we put this off for a longer time, so we can get the right conditions that we can actually go right into this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27627	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27628	Well, my dear colleague, I agree with everything you've stated. And so anyway, once again, I stress the Director's licensing process is very complex and very complex and should be well thought out. The essence of the introduction of a licence for a director is, among other things, the professionalisation of the directorial work to avoid, therefore, or to reduce to the best possible measure of politicisation and therefore political appointment of principals in primary and secondary schools. Personally, I believe that among our principals of primary and secondary schools and we have about 1400 of them we have great people, we have very capable, very valuable and very hardworking people who should therefore be given to do their job properly and should be given the opportunity to acquire additional competences in the field above all school management and then to manage the school institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27629	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27630	Dear Mr. Vice President and esteemed colleagues at this point, there is actually no other logical solution to get rid of this. Therefore, it is only logical that this is actually a colleague of Bedekovic and you yourself, Vice President of the Parliament, to accept this. Let's not actually discuss the things that we all agree on. But here I would still refer to this subject of the principal or the subject of the school boards. We had a model when the school board was chosen exclusively by units of local self-government or regional self-government. We had a model when, this current model when it's part of a collective, when it's partly chosen by local and regional self-government. We had if you remember 10 years ago that model when it was exclusively chosen by the House if I'm not mistaken. No model is perfect. We need to find a new model. I suggest here that maybe a new model puts the ministry or the minister in a slightly greater influence on the selection of directors. Now in what way, is it through direct selection of members of the school board or something else I don't know but it would be, here's my one suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27631	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27632	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I appreciate your experience in education, but I'm sorry that you had to defend something that I can see for yourself that you're not convinced that it's right because you've devoted 2/3 of your exposure to the technology that it looks like and you haven't entered the scale of why you're simply throwing out a deadline for the selection, so licensing of the director. To point out that the previous government, the HDZ government and the MOST government and the current government if we cannot share it with each other, had all the ready and standard professions and standards of qualifications and two model licensing. So you had everything in your hands to run the license. And it's a shame that a Montenegro does not have the licensing of directors but also has the licensing and teachers. What does that mean? This means that this is what Croatia should have and this is a continuous education. All 3% of our citizens are in some kind of continuous education when we talk about workers. So if you're sworn to professionalising the director, you can't take the impression that this delay means killing the licensee and that we've stayed on what we've been up to now, and that's political personnel, because obviously HDZ is in the interest of having a paw over who's going to be the director, and Mr. Zekanovic also said that the minister should have a bigger role, which means that we're going back to political staffing instead of having a director like everyone in Europe, and here we look through the Atlantic in America, licensing directors is a process that is independent of politics, the choice is independent of politics choosing the best people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27633	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27634	Dear colleague, I understand your performance, you are in opposition and it is your job and it is your duty to perform like this and I fully understand and I fully understand. I have, on the contrary, entered the metrics in my presentation, and the measure of this problem is that the certification process is a serious and complex business that requires time. Your government had four years. I referred a concrete question to which I did not get an answer, which was specifically made only from that statement in 2015 that 200 thousand kunas for the licensing of directors were secured. That was if I wasn't wrong before the end of my term. That was three years before your term. And I repeat the question, so what exactly did you do in four years? The proposed licensing models came to the ministry at the end of 2016 as well as the standard of qualifications and occupation, which was during the past HDZ government. I want to hear specifically what's been done on this issue for the past four years of your government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27635	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27636	Dear colleague Bedekovic. You're already slowly surprising me as an expert I really respect. I see you've been tasked with the whole debate by attacking the former government to try to justify the dissatisfaction of this government and the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic. I will repeat it again, which was done in the term of the government of Zoran Milanovic for the licensing of directors, but I don't really need to repeat it to you because you yourself said it in your presentation. That an expert group has been formed which has been tasked with developing a standard of interest and a standard of qualifications from the ministry. And this expert working group worked for a year in 2015 after a strategy was adopted. Of course, before a strategy has been adopted, only a non-serious policy can come into some projects without asking the profession what it means and in which direction Croatia should go and also on the development of school management professionalisation. So the finished product was delivered. You had two models waiting for Schuster, that's what we were doing. Standard of occupation, standard of qualifications, provided funds in the budget that people can work so that they don't have a difficult environment. But my question is, what are you doing and what are you going to do? And why are you, now you answer me as a scientist and a very smart and professional person, which happened in two months that you've been in a public debate draft, you've told me that four years to make you a writing rule, and we've prepared everything else for you. It takes you four years in a draft for one rule book to run a license. And what happened in two months that you don't have a single rule for four years now? That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27637	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27638	Well, dear fellow Members, first of all, I didn't get the task of defending all of this, but all I've said so far is the fruit of my thinking, of thinking based on concrete facts and on fact. So you can see specifically that during the four years of all that you've been doing, very little has been done. You said that Mr. former Minister Shustar was welcomed by two models. The two models were not welcomed by Shustar but were delivered to the ministry in 11 and 12 months 2016, more specifically before we will continue to count for about a month. So in a month, it's unserious to say we're going to apply any of these models and make a rule. You can't make a rule without a tried model or a model without a good rule. So giving up any deadline is exactly the opposite approach to yours, going in favor of the seriousness and complexity of this story. You had your own deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27639	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Comrade Voter, please don't throw you off the bench. You have enough chance to react to all the statements, let's not throw them out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27640	You had a deadline that you yourself set, which is 1.1.2017, so by the end of your government's term, we haven't delivered any of the certification models, nor the standard of occupation and qualifications. Without these two key elements, it is not possible to make the rule quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27641	Thank you. Okay, do I really have to warn you? You have plenty of options to react to the current Rules of Procedure any way you want. So don't throw it out of the bench. Well, then I have to give you a warning. Now the replica will be spoken by the esteemed representative Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27642	Dear colleagues, I thank you for what you said about this proposal. And before us this proposal of the Government, which was, although only a few articles are being amended, extend to 196 pages. It contains a large number of repeated remarks. They look and leave the impression that they're even a little out of touch. A large number of the same remarks, and I do not believe that all people in the education system do not know that when public consultation and commenting are not made comments on what is not changed at all. So I'm interested in your comment whether it actually makes an impression if it's true that our representatives or people in the system are there by someone's task then it's very surprising that there are even 196 comments on what is not included in the amendments and additions to this law at all. So I'm interested in your comment on how you comment that people wrote the same comments, different people, different institutions on what doesn't change at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27643	The distinguished representative Bedekovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27644	So look at the aim of public debate or consultation with the interested public is to get feedback and people therefore all the interested public, each individual, each institution has the right to set up therefore and give suggestions on any article of the law. And you simply cannot and should not, therefore, prevent the interested public from making comments and suggestions on any article of the law. It's the real public.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27645	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm listening to these discussions and I'm putting myself in different roles, so I'm also putting myself in the role of founders of that formal, fictional one that we've heard the ministry that doesn't pay, and you haven't said that before, I'm going to say that part of the replication, maybe just another addition to one of your discussions, that the ministry gives money, gives wages, doesn't decide, that then I guess something is decided by the founders. And then I asked myself a question now, you're coming from this sector from the profession in different roles, so I'm asking you if maybe you could explain a little bit closer who runs our schools in general? He doesn't run a ministry that pays as a salary, so he doesn't give the ministry a salary it's just one form of technical work. Those who are the formal founders of me are responsibly not managing schools, don't manage schools because they have a minority on school boards, so they have a responsibility and they have no rights. And I'm asking myself a question now who's running it? And what's important to me, so I agree with your debate, I'm glad to be doing this model of assistants in the classroom, that he's being upgraded. On the other hand, I am not sure that licensing the director would greatly improve system management. And I think this delay is good and that this review of all these problems needs to be seen at all who manages school systems, who manages schools? There's no formal control of anyone right now. So there's a certain self-government that's being co-ordinated. We know three teachers, teachers, teachers, one parent, most of them can do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27647	The respected representative Bedekovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27648	Well, here's an esteemed colleague, we're going backwards, we're going to those of your last question, so as far as the purpose and the need for licensing are concerned, not in terms of licensing, but in terms of purposes and the need to give any additional knowledge and competence to the directors. So if we take the part, what's the role of headmaster in school? Let's call it a Colloquial saying the Director is the Chief Chief and the Director is the main and responsible person in the institution who must be able to manage it. We currently have a situation to choose for the school director a person who is one, one of the teachers in the institution and who therefore has very little competence and very little knowledge in the field of school management. I would say very little of the management skills needed to manage school in a quality and effective way today. In all of this we have those directors who have a natural gift for human management, have a natural leadership in them. So we have those who don't have it. And now they're swimming here and they're doing their best. In this regard, I personally believe that it is very important to give the principals additional knowledge in the field of school management, additional competences and all that will then enable them to achieve better quality skills throughout this gungula and quality management of the school institution. So, as far as this other school board is concerned, who's running it at all? The founders of primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia are, among other things, municipalities and, that is, cities and counties which should have a majority in their school boards according to the law. So, however, when you take, when you count the members, the founders' representatives, and when you put it on the scale with the members of the school board appointed by the institution itself and by the parents, it is now sincerely depending on how the parent will define himself. This is a real situation that we have and in any case it is worth this notice and is worth a thorough discussion of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27649	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Representatives' Club Life of the Wall and the SNAGA will be spoken by the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27650	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have been listening here for two hours now to discuss who is to blame for not reviving the director's license after ten years of announcing that it will be carried out. And I believe the public had a chance to hear that the culprit was not detected because it was actually a shared responsibility. In fact, this state shows all the misery and misery of education in the Croatian state, the country of alleged knowledge, not for the first time but for countless times to begin and after 10 years we do not even have a minimum shift in achieving the objectives outlined, and then, in the end, we have no other solution but simply a legal proposal to reject entirely. So we have a case here, too, with the licensing of directors by myself completely unnecessary because we have a very good system of picking directors, so we have educated people with colleges working in a collective, who participate daily in the work of college bodies and management of different parts of the school system, whether they are active, whether they are classivists, school committees, teaching councils, trade unions, county councils, competition committees, various bodies dealing with public debates, etc. So teachers participate daily in the creation of school policy and they simply have the opportunity to learn how to manage school, and moreover they are just ideal people to be elected principal. And I'm shocked by the fact that we're listening here on both sides of the opposition and by the ruling statements that the school should be managed by managers. What kind of managers should manage schools? So people who are completely separated from actual school events just as most MPs don't understand what's going on in school and even less will understand if schools are led outside of some bureaucratic procedure. The principal of the school must be a person who knows each of his students by name and last name. A person who knows parents, a person who knows the environment in which he is located, and a person who has had a real experience teaching at different levels of work, here I am going, of course, to have some teachers work on several schools, on several different schools, to be perfected at many seminars, on many activities outside of school. This licensing was therefore just another example of a parade and a spin to change something in school, and in fact, in advance, as in many other cases, the famous curricula reform or I don't know in advance what knew that there would be nothing of it, that the proposing's intentions were dishonest and that the whole goal of these measures was to have several newspaper articles and to maintain the perception that here is something finally changing. In particular, in the last ten years, schools have become a cadaver of bureaucratism. Teachers become bureaucrats of the Soviet-Leninist type. She's the worst bureaucracy that's ever existed in history, and that's what our teachers pretend to be and why? Because he is a legislator persistently imposes on them such obligations that he can no longer deal with what he should deal with. What tomorrow will go to the teacher's license, the housekeeper's license, the janitor's license, I don't know. Do you know what a teacher has to do with all his duties? Have you ever wondered? What does he have to do? How many of those bodies does he have to write? Well, that's tons and tons of paper, that's more paper than there are parliamentary representatives on benches that don't even read. And they keep getting, instead of going to discharge the school system going on a load. We have a queen, an electronic matrix, written, preparation, regular preparation, customized preparation for the competition, reports this one, and enrolls.hr. The teacher can no longer go on vacation as much as he's loaded. License director what, what's it for? Who's gonna do it? Is there anyone here in 10 years to answer those questions? What kind of personnel, with what means, how much does it cost? Can I now? I don't know. I live in Chakovec. Is that possible? Where will my family know, do I know these people? So it's just something suddenly that, like a paratrooper, throws into the education system, and then here's what happens that eventually the legislator is facing a disgraceful defeat and responsible, and no one is responsible. All ministers responsible for the past 10 years, all their ministerial assistants, are responsible for all the assembly committees. The President of the Parliament is also responsible, so if you want the prime minister because the laws are passed, then they are not implemented. And there's really no other solution at this point, but this law simply pulls out because nothing's done. In order for the licensing system to come to life now, I don't know the French foreign minister or one who already has how much experience it would take us two, three years to get licensed directors, and the guarantee of course is gone. We deal with the licensing of directors, we deal with staff issues, we deal with what one minister, his assistant, his secretary, and things like that said. So we deal with procedures, and we don't see what's important, what really happens to us every day in front of our eyes, which is that 10 to 15% of the students in the Republic don't have the money to pay for school lunch. Do you know what the amount is? 70 kuna. Look at the statistics. Here, I'll give you those statistics, I collect them. I can't pay for textbooks. 1.9. are parents, I can't sleep out of trouble that I can't pay for a work notebook or I don't know a pillow, a bag, a physical kit. I can't pay public transportation for their kids to go to school. I can't win a scholarship, even though it's supposed to be some competitions. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's no working conditions. Here and now, I read today how kids don't know how to break through the snow, walk to a school like on an Igman march. And so these are the real problems our school has, and they're not mentioned here. There's no mention of it. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. It would therefore be better if once already the legislator in this House began to talk about solving real problems, and not about any formal-legislative issues that essentially do not solve anything in the education system itself. Look at the statistics and someone said only the number of students is rapidly decreasing and the whole quality of this work is being discussed here, we're fighting a trench battle whether it's a member of the SDP or a member of the HDZ in some segment of responsibility. I think that, when it comes to education, we must all agree together that it is a national interest and that political battles should not be fought over. I'm surprised at the passion of some MPs who would be talking about their political rivals by tomorrow morning and not seeing real problems, even less access to their resolution. Of course, there's also the question of hiring these directors, the way they choose. But as some have already mentioned, all school employment is controversial. There are many disputed places in both business and financial and everything else. It's my suggestion. I've been saying it for a few years. Please enter these password contests, code-coded without a name or last name, and then you will have automaticism to improve the education system by 20% to 30% because they will finally teach people and run schools that have expertise. So do you know that in Croatia you have cases that I don't know English teaching a teacher who doesn't speak English and that music teaches a teacher who can't play, which allows our education system based on political similarities and on these discussions that you are currently having. Why does this government not, among other things, discuss that teachers have not been raised by means of a contract that is duly signed? It's another shame. Well, when it's the same since 2007, it's been the same 10 years. Let's not talk about missing teachers' salaries in the economy. The only thing we can really support here is this one detail that my colleague Glasovac said, and in this case, if the law had already been repealed, it should not have waited until the last moment, it should not have waited for 70 competitions to be opened for the directors if the proposal had come to the Parliament in early December, there was time for this issue to be resolved on time. It's really only 70 directors out of 30, but whatever it is, it's only one. Trust in institutions is also in principle and 70 schools each have 500 students, 300 to 500 students and all those communities, all these municipalities, all these cities know what happened. And now we just have to keep letting this happen again. I'm just waiting for when the next thing I know, we're going to get into the Parliament, which we're going to postpone or end again, like, that law on cops' salaries that's also been on the line for seven years. And what are you going to say in the end? You will say that the Living Wall is used by populist methods, and look at your actions. Look at you in the mirror, as long as you need to move your finger, don't get in my word. That's how you get into your prime minister's word. Here, you had a chance yesterday, and you didn't even come.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27651	Please don't throw us out of the seat, and don't argue with the people who are getting to you either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27652	So look at you in the mirror, and there's no reason to be angry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27653	Thank you. I have to say first just before we move on to a huge number of replicas from the Bunjac to the legislator, that's us. We're legislators, there's no other legislator. We're the legislator, so we'll get it then. Well, you see, on your presentation, about half the members of the Parliament came forward, so let's take it in a row. The first one came from a respected representative, Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27654	Dear colleague, I think this is a good debate, is this a key question? And I'd say, again I'll say about an army that's somehow formed, standards are the same from Zimbabwe to Alaska. When a person sees a problem entering the commander, he must propose at least two solutions to the problem. What are your problems to solve your solution to solve these problems? That's the first question. Secondly, we would all agree here that Croatia suffers from two fundamental problems. First, people don't know how to operate bigger systems, and the second is morality, corruption at all levels. And that's a product you never talk about because you're also a product of that system, where you went to school because that former system of school where it was first command, a little bit of doing a lot of stealing, etc. It's an anthropological question and it's a key moral question that's never been solved here, you don't talk about it. Secondly, the three components we have in this whole thing, the first components are teachers, I mentioned it in whatever conditions they do, it can be fixed, but the principal is responsible whatever school... as the commander is responsible. Secondly, whoever asks teachers, I mentioned this earlier, and the third components are parents. In that law, who included parents? Education, one-third of it's in the house, young sir, where you know who you are and what you are. What about Croatian? Words like geography, not geography. We haven't coordinated the system of education, look at the UN Index for Development, we haven't coordinated the school system with the labour market, we have five million economists, etc. can't get a plumber, etc. And the key question of why we have a multifunctional system, we have to fix it. And these key questions you avoid exactly the answers and if you were a history teacher to my children I don't have, but if you did, I'd be amazed that yesterday you were talking about an evil empire...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27655	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27656	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Glasnović. So I keep offering solutions, and the other thing is you don't want to hear them. Instead of licensing directors who, as we see infamously failed, we can introduce a repeat, selecting the director under the code. Those people who deal with science and scientific work, let's say, like the President of the Parliament, know that this system in which a person is chosen would essentially not know who he is or which party he belongs to, but only by the basis of references and what he offers works far better than all these so-called. competitions where you know who will be chosen in advance. If, for example, the directors in Croatia were to choose in a way that does not know the name and name of the candidate and, say, the director is elected by independent committees that have no physical or political ties with the candidates and the school in which they choose, I guarantee you that in Croatia 50% raise the quality of school management. We in Croatia have a problem management at all levels, you know it very well. We have smart people, capable people, but we simply don't give them any expression. So we've actually got in Croatia a little bit more to tell the Pharaohs, the people who run an institution for 20, 25 years and longer and on Finally, they even hire their own children. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27657	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished MPs Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27658	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Gluncic, dear colleague of the Bunjac. Here is because you yourself come from the education sector and I believe that you also know that you agree that these changes and complements go in favour of children, in favour of the children of the most vulnerable group of children to be protected and to be of maximum assistance, since we are talking about children with special needs and I believe that you also know that these changes and supplements go in favour of the directors who are not asked for what no one has. But also Article 117 remains, which means that I am a licensing system in the quality system of Croatian education and education remains and that it will be realised and implemented when conditions are obtained. In addition, you mentioned in your discussion the misery and misery of Croatian education, you mentioned a litter on the other side, today you heard stories about monkeys, the attribution of peeing etc. I personally believe that it is a very inappropriate dictionary for the Croatian Parliament and that using such words is the most spoken of by someone who has spoken them and not about anything else because we believe that this can be said in a much more appropriate way. I agree with you that paperwork and the very way our professors, teachers, teachers meet daily is that it is really excessive and that we need to be fully relieved so that teachers, teachers, teachers can devote more to their teaching work. Besides, you mentioned poor children whose parents...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27659	Thank you. You're out of time. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27660	Thank you very much, Reverend Buric. I fully agree with you that an inappropriate dictionary should not be used in the Parliament and generally in public life. I think Parliamentarians should control themselves and set their brains on fire before they start language. And what I was talking about when I said misery and misery, I was talking about the system. Teachers are, in fact, doing their job best with children who are trying also in accordance with the conditions they have but the legislator insists on neglecting education. Do you need more proof that education is neglected if no licensing procedure has been initiated after 10 years, but not one single director? So zero of them. Whether we need greater proof that education is neglected and in poor condition, when no agreement has been implemented after 10 years legally that teachers will increase salaries by 6% and that the process of equating them with wages in the economy will be launched. All governments in the past 10 years have been saving at the Ministry of Education, let's say, publicly. Statistics show that the percentage of education isolation has continued to decrease so long as it has not fallen below the too modest 3%. And it's for conviction, it's certainly for conviction. Ask any teacher, students, parents what they think of my words if you don't believe me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27661	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27662	Thank you, pal Bunjac. In your presentation, you said you were opposed to the proposal or attitude expressed on both sides of the assembly and the position and opposition, which is that directors should be managers. Here I have to tell you that at no point in my presentation or on behalf of the club, and I have not expressed that attitude in replicas, and that is not the direction, or form of school management that I advocate. Licensing is certainly not to force the principal to go to classical management, licensing is a procedure that should allow any candidate who wants to try as head of school to try before running to acquire experience that could not be obtained during his formal education when he was employed and after which he was employed in the education system as a teacher, teacher or professional associate. So he was formal education, he's competent to work in class. However, if he has a tendency to manage the school then the state should provide such a person, because we don't have, the Education and Education Agency implements professional training and training but only for existing directors, for people who want and intend to be, there is no way they see whether they are up to it or not to do so, and there are numerous competences that actually school management requires except for those professional qualifications for a particular workplace where you work at a school such as human resources management, knowledge of the legislative framework, but not only in terms of what is subject to expert examinations for each educational worker, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27663	Thank you. They'll respond to a distinguished colleague of Bunjac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27664	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague of the Voice. I don't know why you've recognized yourself in this review of my managers, but your colleague Hajdukovic said that in schools we should have management during today's debate. He's got a phonogram, so check it out. As far as the famous licensing of the school director is concerned, they choose for those who do not know the teachers of two votes, a single-vote staff assembly, parents with one vote, the local administration of municipalities with one vote and the county administration founder with two votes. So we have five different factors that decide on the selection of a director who can't be chosen without having a high level of expertise and a minimum of seven years of work experience, and do you think that's not enough filter for someone to be regarded as capable or unable to perform a directorial function? Because if we go into this famous licensing thing right now and no one knows what it is, what's next? Let's say we're going to license parliamentarians? Where you learned to perform this responsible function of a parliamentary representative before you took office here, for example.? If we wanted to introduce a course for parliamentary representatives to master here's the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Reiner would be welcome to conduct one licensing course so that there are no more incursions, violations of the Rules of Procedure and any other excesses. Let's not get too complicated where we shouldn't. There are problems that are much more pronounced in the education system than some bureaucratic constraints. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27665	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27666	A colleague here at the beginning of your presentation you talked about the topic, you talked about licensing and about the special knowledge that school principals should have. Now we're back to it. By the end of the debate, it went in another direction, so I'm curious don't you really think that school principals now face challenges that are not just about working with a student? They must take care of both school equipment and building use and sustainability. A student of the school asked me recently at a citizen’s reception why some schools have ceilings on their heads, and some have smart records. I also worked with directors in the preparation of European funds I simply saw, and I think we all agree here and the clubs on the left and right that directors need special knowledge, because most of them didn't even know if their building was legalized when the request was filed. They had no such knowledge before them and for which they were responsible. So these management skills are really needed, so I'm very surprised that you think schools don't need to have that. And I think it's a little harsh, I think it's too strict not to express myself differently, that our teachers and directors have become bureaucrats of the Soviet type, so here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27667	Thank you. They'll respond to a distinguished colleague of Bunjac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27668	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Here's if you really honestly asked this question I'll send you a list of jobs that a school teacher is doing today. I'll send you a list of these jobs, and when you see what he's doing, I'll ask you to answer me in a way that he can do all these jobs in a working week, if you want on week seven times 24 hours. Here I am asking you to engage only in the public debate of the one which the ministry is seeking, let's say this famous debate on curriculative reform. It will take you about 8 hours to get involved in this debate only to study any paper, instructions, etc. And where's everything else? Where there are countless other activities that the teacher must perform. And when I said that he was becoming this bureaucrat of the Soviet type, I thought I'd say that he really doesn't have that basic, basic function that he'd have to perform, which is work in teaching, contact with children, contact with parents and his personal professional training. When I say the director has knowledge, it means, of course, the approval of those who care about the selection of directors, then I think, first of all, that every teacher in the already professional exam must take the exam from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In a professional exam, then after one year of internship he must show knowledge of the statutes of school and must know the knowledge of the Law on primary and secondary education. It must show knowledge of all the rules that the school has, starting with the Assessment Regulations, the Home Order Regulations, the School Tour Regulations and all other documents. So he does, he can't even start working without knowing it. And it means simply which he now has some additional knowledge to gain from that licensing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27669	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27670	So here's my colleague, and I also need to look back at that part of your exposure where you claim to be yourself, so you interpret, so you're explaining this problem of licensing a director with the fact that we want to introduce managers into schools. So, clean manager and nothing out of it. So there's no school I'm going to finish if I want to be headmaster at some school. So, the current situation as I have pointed out on several occasions in practice that we have or have a driving gift or you do not have a leadership gift. However, a leadership gift is not enough for you to be a successful director. Schools today face a number of challenges. So we're living fat in the 21st century. Especially what my colleague Roscic said, so preparation for different projects, participation in projects. So these are all situations that require further knowledge of a man who wants to effectively manage a primary school or a high school institution. You said it yourself, so it's a little contradictory. So, if I understand correctly, you're not about the director being the manager. So you said yourself that we, here's what you said we have a problem managing at all levels. We do have a problem with governance in school institutions as well. So for us directors are people from the system, so former teachers, teachers, teachers who must certainly have additional competences and additional skills in order to manage school systems. Here I have to agree with my colleague, the Voter, who even listed some elements of knowledge or skills that must have a particularly strategic governance of the institution. So long-term management, long-term vision where my school and institution want to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27671	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27672	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bedekovic, I think you should explain when you are already calling for these challenges which are therefore additional knowledge, which the teacher, after having passed a professional exam after working in school and with the help that the departments of both the school board and the whole, therefore the system of training has not already acquired in order to be able to perform the principal's duties, is now in need of some further training. I don't know what we're gonna do on that license? We will restate the Republic of Croatia. So if I laid it once, is that okay? I don't know. Then will he have to prove and write his degree's work again after five years? So these basic knowledge was acquired, so first education, and then by practice. I am truly afraid that tomorrow at school people who have never worked in the classroom will work and that we will again listen to such suggestions as come from all sides unusual. I don't know what the vice president of the government gave her that students would evaluate the teacher's work, that there would be a pay for some effect like a school bank and that every humanity, every real contact would be lost. Let's see what our textbooks are like, what our curriculums are like. Well, that's just funny. And why is it funny? Because they were brought by people who didn't spend one day in the classroom.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27673	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27674	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I must agree with you in your claim when you say that an effective education system should be a national interest, it should be. Otherwise, we need to start thinking in the context of national interests, which are our national interests and where we are going. And when we talk about schooling, and one of the segments of education is management of primary and secondary institutions is what we want to achieve, where we want to come and what we want from that system. I agree with you because I come from this sector myself that teachers are often overburdened and overcrowded with obligations that are not necessarily related to their primary work or what would say cor business, which is working with students, so a lot of paperwork, a lot of bureaucracy, etc. Kurikural reform as one of the forms of transformation of the education system was just intended, among other things, to improve the educational process by dispensing students and teachers and actually adapt the educational process to each student. Someone more interested, someone less, in giving teachers more freedom because I am responsible for saying that our system is now, as it is, resting primarily on the enthusiasm of individuals and teachers and that they do not have them, would have fallen apart long ago. And as far as the education manager is concerned, I think you've got it all wrong out of context, and you figured out what I was going to say. Being a teacher and being a principal isn't the same, are all the other challenges you face. I've often had colleagues who have had this, from legal issues to the fact that you have and manage the school's finances, to that that you should organize and teach even though you're part of the tasks you've listed as the director, the successful director, I agree with you, but it's part of the job and the educator. So it's a new set of challenges to deal with, and experience in direct work with students is very important. So that's the same part that needs to be kept when we're talking about directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27675	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27676	I agree with you, Representative Hajdukovic. Education really survives on the love of teachers and students. They keep that system as good as it is, but it's not nice to abuse that love and then go after it, you don't have to invest it, they'll work without investment, they'll work without good pay. I think that material conditions would certainly contribute significantly to improving education, but also to improving the state of the Croatian economy and society in general. So we can agree on that side. In this second part you said, we'll skip that part well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27677	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27678	Thank you. My dear colleague, I think that this entire exhibition of yours should be published in a textbook of logic for high school as an example of how it can be used illogically. Namely, you claim that both sides completely unnecessarily insist on some licensing when it is quite clear that the school director must, so I now list what you said, know the Constitution, law, regulation, must have good contact with parents, contact with children, must be professional in teaching, must be a good teacher, must cultivate a good relationship with other colleagues, must be able to manage human resources. Well, that's exactly it. So it's a license, it's a license content. You're saying we're going to need a license as a list of certain values for doing a job when it's clear that to do a job, we're going to need one system of certain knowledge. Completely incomprehensible and completely illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27679	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27680	Dear Representative Stazic. Before entering this kind of controversy, I suggest you study the education systems in the world, study the kinds of schools that exist, and see among other things that exist in many developed countries to those you admire, the education system at home, that there is a system where parents can educate their own children, that in Great Britain the teacher has the right to write a textbook in the way he thinks that teaching should be done, that there is no conducting or jeopardizing system by some ministries, commissions that only collect fees and rob budgets, piles of arrests, conduct terror over employees, we will have a special discussion on the Education Committee. Here, just one little example. Allow me, while you're already pulling my tongue. A few years ago, when your government was in power, you sent history teachers an instruction that as part of civic education as an experimental subject we explain to children what Athens democracy, children in fifth grade. Here I am now asking you to explain to me after this session what athenian democracy or any representative of your party is, and if you can explain it to me, I will teach it to children of 10 years of age. And that only happens because such instructions are given by people who, in the follow-up from practical insights, don't know anything at all, nothing. History appears as an object for the first time in the fifth grade, children even hear some history and now you will explain to him a process that lasts 300 years to such children you will explain. Here, I'm asking you to tell me who they are, Thessalonicat, Thessalonicat, and then I'll accept your comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27681	Thank you. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić will now have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27682	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I'm extremely sorry that you're in such a bad mood today and yesterday, so you talk ugly about everything you thought you were talking about. If anything, you should support this law only because it regulates the legal basis by which a regulation will be adopted to enable students with developmental difficulties to assist teaching assistants and communication mediators. I believe by Friday you'll think about it and you'll support this bill, I'm saying if it's anything else, then that's why. And if you think that solutions in this or in any other law are not good, then give it already. I said yesterday it would be good for you to make your proposals if you had made a constructive proposal for this law as well. Who says you wouldn't be accepted? But I'm saying if you think about it for nothing else and don't be so bad in the mood, because it'll be better for you to even talk in a more positive direction, that's a lot easier for the man himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27683	The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27684	Thank you very much for your comments. I don't know if you got a report from the Education Committee on the table, I didn't vote against this law, and today I didn't even discuss that part of the assistant in the class but I was talking about licensing the principal whether it was necessary and therefore a shame that ten years had not done anything. You're saying that I'm not in a good mood, I'm in every situation, and at any point in time I'm in a good mood and I'm in a good mood and I'm ready for normal human conversations, but here it's simple facts and the facts are such that the simple system of education is not good, and when you ask yourself honestly after this session and later whether you're satisfied with the education system, you'll know that you're not and you'll know that this Law on licensing of directors that are practically abolished today, no matter what it is supposed to be one fine day, it's actually a stain on education and that it's not my fault either, but someone is responsible, someone is responsible. And I don't know who else would be responsible but those who should have implemented those laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27685	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of distinguished representative Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27686	For example, we can see how what is called an illegal expansion of the debate works. We have seen that almost all speakers have given us a perspectiveal learning model or that they have singled out their own ideas about the meaning of schooling, so we have seen how it works already thinking, but also the unthinkable, and it is simply something that is being implemented at the university from which I come a project that has finished and that is whether it is the director of professions and qualifications or it is a function. If the director is a profession and a qualification, then we will advocate licensing because our principals will not be the most valuable in schools. They're more valuable in schools then if politics sets them up, if they're in policy functions and not skills acquisitions. So, when it comes to licensing when the director is a profession and qualifications, then there are no obstacles to us recognising these acquired qualifications regardless of whether these qualifications are acquired by formal, informal or informational means, so that I would ask you just one question from my colleague Bunjac exactly how this project reads, and that is whether the directors of professions and qualifications are a function or not at all talk about the meaning of education, because then we fall into one infinite nonsense and logical, content, political and any other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27687	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27688	Thank you very much. I can only say to a dear colleague that I would be very afraid to have you as headmaster of the school because I feel that it would be best to remain silent at your sessions, otherwise you would feel the sword politically on your back very quickly because God forbid that you would expand or illegally speak there now – quickly you would come to the end with me. Well, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27689	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Blazenko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27690	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bunjac, I will quote not to – you said: "I am surprised by the passion of some of the MPs to attack those from another political option," I quoted. And you ever since the Parliament was established you've been in some kind of attack, nonstop in some criticism, nonstop in some offensive, in some depressing state as she noticed a colleague here. Indeed, and you are amazed by the passion of some of us who argue, we are talking about some of the actions of those of another political option. You relativize the role of director, identify the role of director with teacher, teacher and anyone. And on a few occasions, you answered through replicas what the principal needs to know without going through a professional exam as a teacher. Well, it's justified I'll tell you clearly. Law on public procurement, Construction Act, Law on the Construction of the Annual Budget, etc., etc. but these are explicit, and clear and reasoned what the principal needs to know, and there is never a single teacher or school employee in professional training. And you said that the director should know every child by name and last name, all the parents of every child, and I'll tell you that there are at least 5 schools in Split-Dalmatia County that have over a thousand children in schools and that it's the subject of conversations, not through education, but through the infrastructure sector within education, I would understand that it's the subject of talking to us that we have schools in one shift, and you're relativeizing the role of directors in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27691	Thank you. We'll hear the response of the esteemed representative of Bunjec
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27692	Thank you very much, dear colleague Boban. I don't know how I attacked you, why you feel attacked. We're just talking. It's a conversation, a dialogue. You have one opinion, me the other, that's the exchange. Maybe it's not even, it's two strangers, you all have the same opinion. That's nice. It may be a little less stress, but the public is expecting opinions to stand up. I agree at all with you that the school has thousands of children, so it's really for the concern. We have a school similar to that in Chakovec, and there are almost a thousand children. There were some suggestions to build an additional elementary school, but they were never realized. We now see that in other parts of Croatia it exists. Well, that's impossible. How the director can communicate with thousands of children and know exactly what happens in each class or individual student. As far as public procurement is concerned, the principal is just one of the people who decides on public procurement because public procurement is actually decided by the school boards. If you are concerned that the principal has not studied and passed a public procurement exam, how is it that you are not concerned that your parent, therefore a representative of your parents, decides on public procurement, and certainly has not studied or studied the law to a far lesser extent than some school worker? I think simply with this attempt to license the director that he has in practice lived to actually just further bring unrest into school spaces and not actually contribute to a real improvement in quality school management.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27693	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27694	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bunjac, you've raised a lot of important questions about education and education. One question is the red tape of teachers. I was probably the same as you were in some way the victim of red tape because I'm a 20-year teacher at school and I'm aware of what that means. The bridge in its programme has the deberocracy of teachers and schools and one example and bureaucracy is one totally irrational and also for the state budget or local budget decision that applications against professors are anonymous and that educational inspection can be made to the school i.e. He has to get into school on an anonymous application. In practice it means this way – that a professor from art education that four girls from art, parents anonymously report to the ministry and educational inspection from Rijeka comes to Zagreb, three days of the teacher's solution, asks for all possible papers and then finds that there have been some irregularities I don't know but there is always an irregularity because red tape is huge. And all of this is paid from a local, or state budget. So here's the bridge in its program, and there's a debirocratization of education, so I'd like to agree with you to go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27695	The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27696	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of Sladolev. If I'm not mistaken, I apologize in advance if I'm wrong, there's no anonymous application in the health care system, and in the education system there's a chance and that's the real problem. That's the problem we should discuss. Someone should feel on their skin what an anonymous application means where you have to defend yourself from someone who doesn't need to be made public. But what's the question here is, would licensing a director solve a problem like this? Would after the licensing of the directors who, if by some miracle had been performed, would they have stopped the anonymous reporting of their parents? Would teachers feel more secure in doing their job, or would they have to again be anxious about those reports that look like some kind of judicial police procedure and that are also giving them such stress that they can no longer prepare themselves for their work? Bureaucracies should be resolved, more transparency should be introduced, and I would like to reiterate in particular, first of all, the issue of public competitions should be resolved. Someone even suggested, I think one minister will be coded, but it quickly gave up and probably in Croatia under such conditions, under this composition of parliament and government it will not be introduced for another ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27697	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27698	Dear colleague Bunjac, I thought I'd give up the replica because some colleagues were already talking about your vocabulary. You mentioned the misery and the misery of the Soviet guy, but here I'm going to ask you anyway, so you can go back to sleep with the ashes, get out or make us laugh a little bit. You said all school jobs are controversial. We've got tens and tens of thousands of educators, so why don't you try and explain to them a little bit what you were gonna say and maybe try to do it at home in front of the mirror? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27699	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27700	Dear counterpart Zekanovic, respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You have just heard that all public tenders in Croatia are legal and that only professional persons are employed. Therefore, you live in an ideal country where you have no fear for your jobs, just learn, educate, get diplomas, and it will certainly help you to get a job. It doesn't matter who your parents are, it doesn't matter who you're strangers to. In this country, high impartiality, high expertise is respected, and therefore you have no concern we have just heard from counterpart Zekanovic that there are no minor problems in the competition. Therefore, conclude on your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27701	Thank you. Since some colleagues have given up on replicas, we will now go to the next club of MPs, and this is the club of representatives of the HNS on behalf of which they will speak distinguished representative Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27702	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are a legislative body, as such is not good when we do and when we are proposed by the Government, and we support that things happen to change laws in a way that breaks the standard of those laws that have already been reached. And that, unfortunately, is the awkwardness, the sloppyness, the unhappiness of whatever you want to do with this law. In this House, the Education Strategy was almost unanimous. I remember colleagues were then, for reasons of financial and technical restraint, not because of its content, I read it that way at the time. And in this Education Strategy, we planned, among other things, to implement this objective, and this decision to go to licensing directors in primary and secondary education or educational institutions. I say we've done a lot of things, so since the strategy was adopted, which is certainly not something that can be brought overnight so that I wouldn't agree with those who say that in the period 2011-2015 nothing was done and this procedure was launched, so the working group that worked on this process, which has reached a certain stage that has not been completed and is not in a phase in which implementation can be carried out. But we in HNS and HSU, whose name I speak on behalf of the club, are against the fact that we in law are changing the provisions relating to the selection of directors in a way that we delete terms, the condition that they are licensed. As one achieved standard which is also in our strategy, which was in this law and is already in a certain process of achievement. I don't understand why after this intense debate, who is what when he worked on what dates and whether he did on time, why it didn't go with the proposal to simply introduce this license as a condition of prolonging as already expanded three times. And we'd have a much less politicised debate today, I'd say, a debate about someone being sloppy, not working well enough, fast enough, a little bit of boasting about how they worked better, some how they worked worse, but they wouldn't have this politicized debate but would simply cover everything with that deadline and keep that standard. However, what we are doing is not good, it is not good for the legislative body to give in to the government in a way and we wonder why. We at HNS and HSU are wondering why we're doing it, why we're erasing it, what's the reason we're not giving ourselves a deadline. So what's just such a big deal with a deadline of ten or twenty years that we have to delete it now, and then we're going to be a little slow and I don't know until when we don't even know when to bring in the rule book that the directors are going to be licensed on. That's the main reason we don't think we can support this proposal. In that sense, we will also submit an amendment to re-install a new licensing period, to delete this proposal which erases the condition that directors go as a condition on the licence and that we go into that procedure. It's going to happen anyway because of this legal vacuum that happened that some of these competitions that are currently under way are likely to have to be cancelled. So, if we accept the new deadlines, or the extension of the licensing deadline, these tenders will have to be cancelled again, but of course it will not be worth choosing these directors for the time being. And I don't see this too big a problem except maybe someone's goal of destroying the standards of education that are embedded in the education strategy in the Republic of Croatia. I don't want to believe it, but since we've already stopped de facto in education, and they've been chasing some processes that were extremely important to us, first of all, to the curricula reform, I have to show in the name of the club that this may be a small detail and less important detail, but which says unfortunately that we're going in that direction, that we're going to stop some processes. In discussions on several occasions, it is mentioned whether it is important for directors to have certain competences or certain skills. Well, my people, we all live in some cities, municipalities that have more or less elementary and secondary schools, and we go to some other neighbouring municipalities and towns that also have primary and secondary schools, and we are aware that unfortunately some schools that have good principals, quality directors, and I would say that it is a happiness for these communities and an exception unfortunately in Croatia and some schools and directors have such that today someone mentioned where ceilings fall, and some schools where our children have a whole range of extracurricular activities, involved in working with civil society, the principals are competing school for European projects, schools are expanding, going to one shift. So listen, who's got to do this if they don't want the principal. In order for the director to do so, he must have more competence than is required so far. And when my colleague Bunjac talks about our teachers and teachers being good teachers and teachers, which is probably right in 90% of cases, I'm afraid that he imagines our school and the principals of our schools at some time there from the beginning of the 20th century when it could have been the way he says, but today with all these challenges that we have to deal with especially in education, especially regarding young people, especially the equal chances of all our young people, all of our children going to schools suitable for the 21st century, then these directors and those people who run those schools must be competent for the 21st century. So I don't think there's any doubt about it, even though thinking about this subject, you're making a note of this subject, I've been talking to an old principal who's been retired for a very long time, who's mentioned to me that somewhere in the '90s there's been attempts to introduce non-license but to introduce some kind of expert exam for directors. So these years in the early 1990s or half of the 1990s, it started, and he was on that exam and he passed that exam, but with that whole story, you know why. Because then the principals who had to pass the exam had unfortunately failed to pass it. I don't know, and we can't predict what's going to happen in the perspective when it's being introduced because I'm still hoping to do that licensing. However, we must move into this process because we must look into the truth. We simply don't have equal qualified people all over the country in more than a thousand and some schools, we don't have equal qualified people for our job, which means that we put our children depending on where they live in a completely different position, the starting position that the school program works in a standardised way. Here, and my appeal is, I'm not going to open up any political conflicts or call anyone personal but I'm appealing let's not break the standards, what we are, the flyer where we've already put it. We accept the possibility we have, which is to give ourselves a new deadline. It's not the first time in the Parliament that's happened, and it wouldn't be the first time we've accepted something like that. And let's give ourselves that two or three-year-old deadline as the men of the profession say we should spend it. Here, I appeal to you in that sense as a party, as a club we'll give the amendment and here's an appeal if it's possible for that amendment to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27703	Thank you very much. We also have here on your replica display. She's the first one to represent Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27704	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Turina-Đuric, I agree with you. Some processes should be run anyway. Perhaps it is true that it would be much better for the law to write a deadline for this process or for which this process will be stopped. However, what is important is to re-emphasis and say. You mentioned different schools here, different material conditions. As long as we have school boards like this, they're licenses, I assure you. Politics, you said yourself in the debate that you wanted to rule out politics, that's impossible. Do you really not think that certain material conditions are the result of political relations? The principal is also in charge of professional leadership except for the management of the school. There are a number of parents involved in this part of the various projects, which these projects are implemented, which are very successful, but unfortunately this is not seen on the school facade. So I'm standing by that position the principal is primarily a professional head of school. My colleague Boban said he needs to know the Public Procurement Act. He needs to know this. He also has a secretary of his own. And the mayor of the municipality needs to know these same laws, he doesn't have to go through that training. We won't get anything if we introduce the director's license either by formal, or by informal education. If we leave a system like this where the founder with his three members plus one member of the Board of Parents who can't and I don't know why it stands in the law, I don't know if it's in accordance with the Constitution. I'm saying, he can't be a school employee, and I'm stressing again he could have seven kids at that school. Therefore, such restrictive measures in the very law concerning the election of a director, regardless of what kind of knowledge he had, will not make progress. Because who will evaluate at the end and his competences, his knowledge. Again, a school board where only one member can attend that session and never again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27705	Thank you. The distinguished Nada Turina Đuric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27706	Comrade Sagar, I already said that in the debate. I haven't even been able to discuss the intensity of getting into some kind of politics on this subject. I think this topic definitely needs to be avoided, so I'm going to try to avoid you and your question, even though it actually directly calls and calls for me to make myself known in the replica. Look, I come from a county where mostly I'd say one political option has power. And if we translate it into having an impact on the director's choice, it probably does. But I'll also tell you that if you look through that same political option and compare those directors from that same political option that there are drastic differences between them, which means that in fact, whether someone is politically colored or chosen ultimately doesn't really depend. But his competences are certainly yes. Now, how do you solve it rather than one such procedure proposed within this strategy, that is, this law. I don't know which plastic way to answer your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27707	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27708	Thank you very much, colleague Turina Đuric. In your presentation, you mentioned an example from history when the Republic of Croatia began with an attempt to verify, i.e. the examination of certain competences for the exercise of the Director's duties, and it is interesting that it came from the conclusion that the majority of respondents did not satisfy the set parameters. Probably in one section of the expert public, and right now there's fear, fear is the devil. Fear of change, fear of something new, fear of actually uncertainty in which direction licensing could lead. However, I think that it is a national interest and that we must not give up setting high standards that we will expect from all those who want to take on such responsible places as managing the most important institutions for the future of the development of the Republic of Croatia, which are our educational institutions. And I agree with you when you say we could have avoided a bit of a political debate here. I couldn't agree more, we could have done it in a way that the government hadn't given up its first draft to go to public counseling, to extend the deadline until 2021. Today we could, and also on the board thematically before that, open a constructive one, if there is already a consensus on the need to cultivate and set high standards, we could also use the board and this session today to discuss what has been done, and it has been done in these two years. How much longer do we need to do for what we have to do, agree here, perhaps somewhere in the middle between our proposal 2019 and your first 2021, but never give up. And we should have set a deadline within which we expect our country to start setting and applying high standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27709	Thank you. The distinguished representative Turina-Djuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27710	My fellow Glasovac, first of all, to apologize to you, or to my colleagues from the SDP, since there was a united debate, I did not stress anything about your bill, but I hope it is understood from my discussion. And I think I must especially commend you and your club that you are in good time I would say that there will be a problem and that there will be a problem with that legal vacuum that has come due to the deadlines set by law and the election of directors under that law. So we're absolutely here on the same track. Oh, no? So, according to us, we need to keep the standards and how much time it takes for us to do so, or for the ministry to do so, to sit down, to agree and to support that deadline that the ministry itself has set, so I would even say to the ministry just for the period in which it will do so, of course, within four years, within the mandate, no more than that, and we will be very happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27711	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. We will go with individual debates until 13:30 and then we will have a break and then continue after that with individual discussions and after the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, just so we know the course of today's session. The first one will be held in an individual debate by the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27712	Thank you, dear Vice President. We have here two draft laws on the same problem. So, back in 2008, it was the Government of Mr. Sanader and set a single task to set standards for primary and secondary school principals, meaning that a single licensing procedure could be established after which it could decide who these people could be principals of secondary and primary schools. The job was not finished by the government of Ivo Sanader, the government of Zoran Milanovic did not finish, the government of Oreskovic did not have to talk about it, and the only thing it managed to do was abolish President Mesic's office, nothing else. And now we have a new government. We have one task that we all agreed to do, all but colleagues of the Bunjac today, but I guess that's why he had countless replicas because he only doesn't understand, he doesn't fully understand that this is something that needs to be done, that we need to introduce standards for principals of primary and secondary schools because on the contrary, we actually have political decision-making. And the question is whether we are now for political decision-making or for standardisation. It is commendable that both political options agree that standards should be introduced. The job wasn't done. Now we can discuss why it wasn't done and who's more guilty, I think such a debate is pointless. Business is neither simple nor easy. Could it have been done? He probably could have. Why not? And it's not for objective and subjective reasons. But is it supposed to be done? He needs to be done. The SDP club proposes a period of one year. Let's set a deadline by January 1, 2018. If the government had proposed another deadline, I would have suggested to my club that we withdraw our proposal, if the ministry had told us no in 2018, we are little, look, it's been eight years since it was supposed to be done and it's not done, so we won't be able to do it in a year. Let's give us two years. If the government had said let's do it by the end of the term of office, here's what we do, so I guess in four years we can do that task I would have accepted it, and I would have appealed to my club to accept it as a very, very reasonable deadline. But what does the government offer? The government shuts down at all. It cannot break the obligation because the obligation stems from the law, the law stems from the strategy, should change the strategy first and then the law to end it. But the government says there is a commitment and when ad infinitum will be fulfilled. In other words, never. That's what in the government's proposal bothers and that's why the SDP went with its proposal. As you can see in the explanation of the SDP proposal, nor are we attacking the current government because of what it did not do, the only thing it could have done earlier and could have put this proposal forward because of these competitions that are now under way and that will have to be annulled. Okay, that might be a technical question. We're messing with people without any need. We expose them to unnecessary efforts. So this is about whether we're responsible or not. This is more a matter of conscience, of political conscience. Will we now, how will we behave in front of the problem that we recognize both exist? It exists because the work we did we didn't do, we didn't do it to each other. And now our political conscience tells us to set a deadline anyway, so let's say a lot, eight years enough. Let's say two more years, three years, we said a year, let's say we finally do what it takes in this society. Either we're going to be politically irresponsible or almost politically unconscious and say we're going to cancel every deadline. And the obligation, we don't care, the obligation is in the law, it can stand for another hundred years, we're not going to pass that rule, and we're going to choose the directors without that rule and without licensing. That's the only difference, that's the only difference. And that difference could have prevailed on the board, could have prevailed on the board that there was political will to have it prevailed. This is how the Government puts itself in a very, very uncomfortable position, I would say unnecessarily uncomfortable, which is that the whole public thinks that they want to play this obligation to license the principal of primary schools and that they want to use their entire mandate where they can use their political influence in the local environments and sets their directors, that it's not their goal, so it's not even the end of her mind that this problem can be solved by some time. What's it to the government? I don't know. Which is why in this way, which is why if he knows that there is a commitment, if he has any sincere intention of solving it can come and now, he can come and now during this debate, the minister can come and say here I have consulted with my assistants, with his deputy, with the prime minister I think two years would still be enough for us. Don't ask us for a year, I think in two years, in three years, here in three years, we'll solve this issue. I am convinced that our club would accept such a solution. They'd take it for granted on the board, and then they'd take it here on the tide. This is a problem that actually doesn't exist, it's artificially created, but it produces a problem much bigger than a problem of technical nature. It creates a feeling or belief that the government deliberately avoids licensing the principal of primary schools, so it wants to use its entire mandate to decide politically on the issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27713	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas, of course. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27714	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic only briefly. Not just you, but more during the entire debate, a line of political employment or the selection of directors has passed. Here I think my colleague Bunjac said in one segment that all forms a school board. It's a teaching council, a council of employees, so order of parents, so municipalities or cities and founders, there are five segments. I really should probably do that, and somewhere, I absolutely agree with that, but to generalise I'm convinced that over 70% of such cases really do not exist because it's very difficult to put those five components together so that simply a man can act politically as you or you may have some other experience. Let's just say I know that in the area where I come from, the principals are not members of any political party. There are three of them in my city, none of them are members of any political party. Now how is it possible that these five segments may be more skillful or within your club people are more skilled to work it out, but indeed within the frameworks of these five segments that make up school boards that choose directors that can simply happen. I really don't think that's a little bit of you, but during the whole debate, it's not clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27715	Thank you. The honourable representative Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27716	In truth, I tried not to insult anyone. So we have to agree that local self-government, local self-government bodies have influence, have a certain impact on the composition of the board. Whether he's determined or not, whether he's being abused or not, somewhere he's likely to be. Maybe in most cases I don't, I don't know. But is it good in the idea to avoid everyone accepting that politics deals with it? I personally think so. That we should all make a common effort to avoid it, even the slightest chance if it exists. What's wrong with licensing, what's wrong with that? It is carried out by an independent body, see if a man is capable, whether he has additional skills to do so because indeed not all directors are the same, indeed have some who improve their schools, have some who do not improve and water as they have inherited, perhaps some vice versa, so that we try to fix this situation together and get the policy out of it. And I have for the Ministry a word of advice that has nothing to do with your reply. If you haven't already been able to make up a deadline, here I suggest the Minister prescribes our solution is skillful in copying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27717	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27718	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stazic, you said that the fact that previous governments did not do the job they had done through the 2008 law is true. But one important difference in this debate, when we are discussing these amendments and the additions of the law compared to all the other discussions in which the deadlines have been extended in this House three times, is that this is the first time the job has been started and it needs to be completed. I no longer understand why at this very moment when the job is started, when 70% is finished, why at the moment we have decided to delete that deadline and to give up our obligation to society, to schools, to say to ourselves, let the government say OK, we will end it by the end of our term. The government could say -- look, we think your SDP proposal is unrealistic, that two years are not enough. Personally, I think they are, but I can understand that the best possible and most detailed business would be done, I think four years is enough for that, and that the first draft you put in public debate in 2021 could have remained. Why isn't that? Why is it that at the moment when the job was started, we gave up the deadline, and all these years we've gone through it even though it wasn't even started? I still don't have it, I didn't get the answer, and I can't figure it out. I think it's bad and it's not good and we wouldn't lose anything by defining the deadline and getting a lot and doing a lot for the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27719	The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27720	It's just not an incredible shame to throw in the trash a huge job that's been done at 70 percent. Well, if 7% were made, then man would say, "Come on, there's no point in trying." But 70% of one big job was done. And now it takes 30 and we're not petty and we're not saying you have to do it now within six months. We are not petty, but responsible for this society, according to our work, to the citizens who chose us, to those children, to the students. And we invite you to reason. Give the government's amendment some deadlines, some say, this is what we show the will to finish, to make 30% more. Up until now, 70 was made, something you did, something we did, it doesn't matter who did it. But here, we accept the obligation to finish it in that 30%. And if you make it an amendment to the government, we will accept this law, because it is for the benefit of this society. And every withdrawal from the deadline is at the expense of society, because it's going to be four years without you doing anything. And then who's going to keep doing something on this 70%? For if you do not have a term, then you will not lift your finger, for if you do not have a term, why should you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27721	Thank you. The next is the replica of distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27722	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazić, we have already held a discussion in the section that could be called philosophizing about whether the article of the law that defines the deadline, the motivation of the administration by the minister, the secretary of state, and downsizing that something is working or not, and the experience is now saying that such articles that have motivated them since 2008, until 2017 were not enough to motivate them to do something. And the Priory should now create doubts that they do not know what their job is, that they must ignore that they received 2 ways a month ago in which they can solve something and that their laziness, uninterestedness without any deadline in the article simply leads them to forget that they have no more obligations and that they simply have to give up what is simply not true. We, in the ruling majority that we have proposed to the government, presented by Mr Plenkovic, put his minister, secretary of state, assistants and others who may be directors tomorrow, argue that they will do so without writing to them when and by what time because this requires the seriousness of those who have taken the job that has not been confirmed so far. We have changes to the same law eight times. We haven't had this kind of discussion. In 2009, we changed, in 2010 twice, in 2011, once, in 2012, twice the same law, in 2013, here again in 2017 we have I think the eighth or ninth amendment of that same law and nothing was Minister Jovanovic and Mrs. Glasovac motivated to finish the job in time, but they left it unfinished and left it to someone else. And now we're philosophizing whether my date or year is motivated by whether I'm going to work as a minister or not. Of course it's my job to work. Why is he doubting a Priory only some years or dates?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27723	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27724	Dear fellow, I do not understand your skill. You say this, we guarantee, we guarantee we'll do this job, and the proof of that is that we cancel the deadline. This would be about as if you said – we are removing the time limit for discussion because it will motivate MPs to speak less – that is the logic. I'm sorry, that's the logic you're using. I'm sorry, it's totally incomprehensible if you really, if you really promise, and I'm inclined to believe that you're seriously going to do this. Write it down by the end of our term.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27725	Let's not get off the bench, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27726	In 2021, but don't say that you've abolished the deadline to prove that you're much more serious about doing something, so people will laugh at you. So don't really make fun of the man people make fun of.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27727	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27728	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! So, it's already said a lot about this problem in the debate we had in clubs I'd like to point out once again because I think it's very important and that in everything and in school we should think strategically and comprehensively. Unfortunately, most of it has not been the case so far, and not only when we talk about school but when we talk about the simple fact where we see Croatia by 2020 or by 2050, where we see it in the European Union, where we see it in Europe, where we see it in the global world, where we see it economically, educationally, however you want. Why am I talking about this? When we have a clear goal, when we have the end of the road, when we see what we want to achieve, then it is much easier for us to take measures and work towards that goal, and then it does not matter who is the authorities in the sense that certain final goals will be achieved, or that they will be dealt with. We will always differ in thinking about how to achieve that goal, how to reach it, but it is important that we all have a common goal. I think that our common goal should be a functional education system, that our common goal should be a functional school, that our common goal should be to be a satisfactory teacher and that our common goal should be a motivated student who will eventually be a responsible citizen, who will eventually successfully perform on the labour market and who will eventually gain all the knowledge and skills he needs. I agree with colleagues and colleagues who have previously said that education is primarily a strategic policy, that education should also be important in our economic path, or economic vision, for what we want to educate people and how. The people who run the facilities, so here we talk about primary school and high school, there's nothing less important. Why am I saying that? Again because of what I said at the beginning. If our goal is a functional school, a satisfied teacher and a motivated student there is a role, I won't say this time, management at school but those people who run those institutions are extremely important. The role of the principal isn't just because a colleague of Bunjac used to say he knew every student, every parent. That part of the burden, for example, is taken over by professional services, educators, defecologists, psychologists, and teachers themselves who work with students, so classmates. But what is much more important, at least in my opinion, in the work of the director is to organise work in a particular institution, distribute tasks and eventually lead the entire institution. We have had opportunities to hear that in many institutions the working conditions are extremely bad for both students and teachers. And unfortunately, I have witnessed it myself through my professional work that the conditions in certain school facilities are, therefore, physically very bad. It wasn't always the director's fault, but it's the director who has to be the person or director who has to be the person who's gonna be proactive and actively looking for solutions if they're facing them. What am I saying? The director there often has to be a mediator between collectives, between parents, between students and founders. So whether it's a big city, whether it's a county, whether it's a ministry that's not the founder but that's the finance. In the county or large cities that are the founders of their primary and secondary schools, although secondary schools are only counties, so it is up to them to deploy funds that come from the ministry to set priorities etc. And there's a role and a director that's extremely important to fight for his school but also to organize work in it. That's why I think the director of a particular institution is a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of an atypical interest if we talk about the directors of such institutions as to the rule of the person coming from the system, so teachers, teachers, teachers, and I think they should be, by the way, the more special activity and without experience in direct work with the students, in direct education-educated work, you often can't even figure out what this school is. School isn't just a building, finance, students and teachers, school is a lot more than that. In school children spend as much time as their teachers and stimulating environment, stimulating school, good atmosphere is just as important as a smart plate and a ceiling that does not leak as functional heating. That is why, and because of these challenges that people who take responsibility to run institutions meet, I think it is very important to help them to be in this business as well as to give better but also more responsibility to the founders as well as to the collective and parents in their participation in school life. The best schools I've ever worked in are the ones where parents were actively involved with teachers and together with the school's leadership in the work and life of the school. When they wanted to come to school, they also wanted to learn sometimes with their child but also to give him a good example, when we used to look like classrooms together because the school must be not only an educational institution but also a educational institution and I'm afraid that by accessing and neglecting education, education is becoming more and more and more of an educational institution. As far as I'm familiar with the Faculty of Teachers in Zagreb has had its own time, I don't know if it still has, I haven't been able to find the data, but he had a specialist post-graduate management study in school. If we talk about education or at least professional training of people who take on this responsible task, I think it may be one of the ways to go. In any case, when we talk about this particular case of licensing of directors, we've taken a certain goal or put ourselves before ourselves long ago in 2006 if I'm not mistaken and I think it's a bad message that we're giving up at all. Here, colleague Stazic said earlier and fellow Voter is not the problem that we are prolonging it. I mean, it's a problem. We should have done it before, but it's clear that we're not the preconditions we should have made we didn't achieve them. However, by erasing that provision from the law, we have not solved anything. The problem remains. The questions remain. The solutions are still gone. Is there going to be a license or not? How do we even see school management or the leadership of school institutions? We still don't know. Since the fate of the curricula reform is still unclear, at least to me, we don't even know where we want to go with our school or school system, so it remains many, many unknowns. And I'd like to finish with the next one. Here we heard yesterday, and the prime minister called for several times, and for this speaker, some HDZ colleagues were also calling, so make your constructive proposals. Well, here we go. One of our proposals is now under discussion on the agenda of the legislative proposal that we referred to last year in the procedure. If it had been heard because our intensities were good, if there had been hearing today they wouldn't have discussed it. This would've been a prolonged one. Maybe we could discuss assistants in class. I believe there wouldn't be much debate here because we all agree on that as a rule. We suggest, we continue to propose and don't think that if anything comes from this side of the pay phone that it's bad, that the intensity is bad. I say we differ sometimes in the methods that we want to reach the goal, but our goal must always be the same. And in this case, it's a quality education for our children and a quality system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27729	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas as usual. The first is the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27730	Thank you very much. You're right about your colleague Hajdukovic when you claim that there are people who do excellent work in the classroom, but maybe as directors they're not doing well. They simply lack certain competences that would give them extra added value to sovereignly rule over all that is expected of them. And we have to admit that the demand is not very small and that there are more and more. Now, we have four categories. We have those bright examples amongst the directors who are professional in this section have some kind of natural already in the control room and we can say for them that they, who want, want and work. We have another category of those who wouldn't know. We have a third category of people who wouldn't know, but they won't. And the fourth category of those who don't know, they don't care and they won't. Now, what do we have to secure? We can't leave it to the case. We need those who would and do not know through the licensing process, through programs that we will see if they will conduct higher schools, State School for Public Administration or someone third, who will give them competencies where they will acquire them, and then the National Centre for External Education will evaluate it, monitor and license and relicate them. We have to do everything to give people who really want to know, to give them that knowledge but also to set up a mechanism for those who know and will not and will not want to learn and will not be able to follow them and prevent them from achieving their first mandate or through evaluation and monitoring when we see that they have not met the standards to prevent them from continuing to run schools below standards, that is the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27731	Thank you. The honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27732	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues agree. I'd even point out that other thing. Permanent improvement in the education system is extremely important. When you start your teaching, teaching, teaching career 35 years after that many things change in science, in the subject you teach, in the way you study, in the circumstances of the world, in the country, etc. Without continuous training, standards simply cannot be followed, and these directors are no exception. I would, you've divided a few categories of people who aspirate, unaccompanied essentially by directors. I'd say there's two sets of reasons why someone's good or why someone's bad. One reason is objective, the other is unobstructive. Inexplicable are personal characteristics, affinities, etc. and some just don't have it in them for working with people to lead, etc. And they're objective ones that we can influence, and that's what you're talking about. It's a provision of knowledge, skills and support to the people who run these institutions. Many of the principals don't become lawyers. They lack that knowledge. They have no financial knowledge, no knowledge of the means to run an institution that is extremely important to them. Some of them are doing great, we have as you've said great examples, but unfortunately, we've got the bad ones. The intensity of this is exactly what you do you keep in the system, encourage, and those who do wrong replace those who will do it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27733	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27734	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope this time you don't throw me out after my or during my replica. I'd like to say, I've listened to Mr. Hajdukovic carefully and I've come to a number of conclusions, and the key is that HDZs who have been complaining all along that we're demagogues, populists, that we don't have concrete proposals, that we don't respect the law, what are they doing? We have a situation with the shipping of police officers who, the law has said that since this year they have the right to these severances. And then what does HDZ do?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27735	I'm afraid I'm still gonna have to intervene. You're talking about cops, and you don't know because you just walked into the gym right now, we're talking about two laws, amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and high school, cops in primary school as far as I know they don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27736	Mr. Reiner, my mother is a doctor of medicine, my father is an engineer of construction and has a certain width and to point out the final thought sometimes I have to do a little digression.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27737	Don't do too much dyspression, please. Let's concentrate on the subject, just like all the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27738	But sir, it's not possible to say the thought if I stick to the subject closely. You understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27739	Everyone else is sticking to the subject, I don't know why it's hard for you and why we have to talk about cops now and not about education and education in primary and high school. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27740	But, sir, if you'd let me speak, I'd have already finished what I wanted to say about the cops.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27741	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27742	Thank you. So instead of making severances to cops, what's done is changed the law. Instead of creating that licensing concept, that provision of the law is abolished. And finally, we see that the laws in this country are of no value and those who don't respect them instead of bearing responsibility for moral, political, criminal and legal what they do change the law, adapt it to themselves. It's a HDZ model, a model of people who predispose us not to follow the law. Well, the easiest way to do that is to make it easier for the HDZ gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27743	The honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27744	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Pernar, for the replica and for the discussion. You said it right, they say we're not constructive. Here I have now listed in the agenda six legislative proposals where the opposition party's proposings are including now this subject of debate. So it's not true that we don't offer our visions and our solutions but for dialogue it takes two. And of course we need to talk and we need to talk and maybe some model we're really offering is better or more sustainable than what the current position is offering and vice versa. But convince me that's the way it is and you won't convince me if we don't talk. And we're back to the one that's our ultimate goal? If we have a clear goal, then we can discuss how to get to it but until we have a goal, we don't know what we're doing. Now we wipe this squad out of the law, it will no longer physically exist in the law, whether it will come back, why no one knows. I'm afraid if we delete it now and the will of the majority exists that we want it never to come back to the law and that we're actually going to have a good concept that we've lost irrevocably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27745	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna take a break by 3:00 and then we're gonna continue the individual debate on this point. Thank you. It's 13,22 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27746	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.02 HOURS]] We continue with individual debates. Independent representative, distinguished colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27747	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! So here's what I'm going to try to do in this brief debate, look at three points or three areas that I think are very important and related to this topic that we're discussing today. First of all, I would like to say that if we exclude the health system from our very nature, the system of education and public system in which there are clear protocols, there is a lot of administration, that is, colleagues and colleagues who are in that system, whether they are or will be known, and that system is often the time that we have to spend with the administration, and part of the time that we could spend in direct work, educational and educational work. As far as the law is concerned he's what I'm gonna support him for I said for that reason that otherwise he can't even be at this point. Therefore, not all advances necessary and necessary for the licensing system to be revived have been made. What has already been said several times in the debate and I fully agree with it, the director is asked for a lot of competences, a lot of knowledge, so other than those of his expertise, knowledge is therefore needed and knowledge related to the business leadership of the school. And in that sense, a licence which I hope will be such a licence in the future when, of course, everything that precedes it will have a positive step. What someone mentioned here I was a little bit critical in my replicas when I talked about meddling politics in the system, of course not thinking that the directors who were elected and there was a political way that they were bad directors. So, just finding that politics has an impact and thus selects those directors who believe that at that time it is more meaningful or more politically beneficial to them. So, when we talk about the director's licenses, what should certainly be taken into account in the future is that it is carried out by the ministry through the agency, and I don't know how much I've realized from this proposal so far, the expert exam is considered to be the first license, and I don't know whether it's worth it for the director's first time, so it would be a little unusual, and it's actually legally impossible, given that in the law in many European Union countries, and in our five years of direct work in the education system so that we can even run for director plus those three years, it means a total of eight years of internships. And it's more or less in a lot of countries. Some countries have like the Netherlands I say, they've decided, they have to be the head of the profession and they just have a school where people go to school for the principal. Slovenia's second model, it's also quite a strict model, they've dealt with it differently. How we're going to deal with this is only going to see because it's important that if we're already running such a license that it finally benefits not only the principal who's going to pass it, but also the schools and then the system as a whole. We can't close our eyes that our teachers live let's say in difficult conditions and work and live in difficult conditions, teachers' and teachers' salaries aren't great. We also had problems with a contract that was signed in 2009 on wage growth which was not respected. So someone here mentioned it and it's safe to be a teacher and the professor isn't interested in me. Being a teacher and a professor is an invitation and people are working with enthusiasm, they will work people and again with enthusiasm regardless of how much state they can pay for, but we must not forget that all those people who are teachers and teachers will be directors, so they will be directors, for some time they will be back as teachers and teachers, and in this sense their professional training that are being implemented today and which schools today must be taken into account and when licensing that they will not happen that something special they have to do other than these knowledge that is important and related to European funds, related, some colleagues here have mentioned, and for the very knowledge of legal frameworks especially in the field of public procurement, in the field of those knowledge where the director would not come in a position to do something that is not in accordance with the law, because in practice someone also said from fellow colleagues and colleagues that some schools are staging, because some schools are really true, it has to go to the public institutions, and to have always have been able to have been able to do so when they have to have to have access to the local institutions. And now to go back to what hurts me that I keep saying, which is school management. We must consider school committees independently now and if they are politically colored, but they must have a function of some kind at school. So, they have to take part of their responsibility if we have already said that we are going to exclude that the House cannot choose the Director alone because according to these legal provisions, even from the order of the parents. One representative is elected from the board of parents, in the line of parents. It can't be if he's an employee of the school, but then let's give these people space to get as much influence on school policy as possible, because this is not a good solution. The founder in this case, the county elects three members of the school board in my municipality. They can be from other units of local self-government and what they actually care about my school. Here's what I'm saying very harshly. Of course I don't think there are people who don't care about anything. But it would be better to include a local self-government unit. She doesn't have the fiscal capacity to implement what the county implements. But give her at least a chance to get on the municipal council, and it was before the case, let the municipal council decide which people should sit on the school board, so let these people get the most involved in that school, let them help the principal to just make progress. Building a sports gym isn't an easy job. It's a very difficult job. There needs help and ministries, and regional self-government, and then the municipalities or cities themselves to make such a single project. He's got kids today. My colleague, who retired a year ago – two whole lifetimes of her life taught her children body culture under the clear sky. That's just the situation. And for the end. I would just like to point out once again that the school system is a serious system and should not be played with. Whenever it comes to changes in the educational system, it always happens somewhat slowly. Don’t be surprised because according to some estimates, the world changes ten times, but I’m a school system, perhaps more than that, because even now, even though we’re in the 21st century, many teachers have a basic tool of record and chalk. But that doesn't mean it's bad. I'm one of those guys who thinks it doesn't have to be bad. A well-known architect in Zagreb said the difference between architecture today and sometimes, says: “We used to draw hand, so we had more time to think. Today we draw with advanced tools, less time to think." It may be, there may be children who will not know how to add up tomorrow to say this on foot, manually because of the great technology we are introducing. But on the other hand, we need to introduce smart records and everything that's advanced today, and not to neglect that human part, the educational part, because it actually does school, and it does -- I would call the school a sanctuary -- that's what the spirit of the school does, and in that sense, if we succeed through this licensing, and later and through proper school management, we've done a lot. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27748	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Nicole Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27749	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Sagar, you'd agree with most of what you said. We are often here especially to colleagues from the opposition full of the mouth of curricular reform as if that is the only problem in Croatian education. I was a teacher at school and I know that what you're talking about, and that's the enthusiasm of teachers and teachers is what our education is about. We ourselves had to copy additional materials. We ourselves had to copy students' tests. We didn't even have a projector in the classroom. Our principals couldn't even send us to an extra education because there's no money for that. And then what are we talking about? These are some basic conditions without which there is no reform of education. And of course, what you're talking about means teachers' salaries, and that's something that we all need to insist on and advocate together and opposition, and ruling that this government invests more in science and education in the future. Besides, I agree with you when you talk about school committees in one section. You mentioned that local self-government units should be involved. Now, that's the question of what would that lead to? I saw it as soon as you mentioned it to your county colleagues here who the HDZ's had raised their replicas. So they want to keep their own influence. If it came under the hands of local leaders, they'd have the same situation, and local leaders would wonder who would work at school and who wouldn't work at school. I think there must be some criteria. There's no criteria. There are no criteria for school employment at all. You don't see how much work is ahead of you, so we've got a colleague waiting for a job at 9, 10, 11 years. I can't even get a chance to pass a professional exam. So that's the problem. If the local sheriff re-determined, whether it's the mayor or the mayor or the captain, we'll have the same situation again. So we need to see if there are any criteria for employment in educational institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27750	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmoe, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27751	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague of Grmoya, therefore, is the fact that we can see from day to day that the number of children in schools is decreasing. The truth increases the number of teachers. Of course, there are foreign languages and religious teachings in schools. So we have today when we look at statistics we have good conditions in schools. We have a number of teachers on fewer children, and that is, even in Western countries, we are going to step up with Western countries on this issue. I fully agree with you that the work of teachers and teachers is often difficult to pay. So there are people, teachers, most teachers who do their job worth doing, and this job is here we can say it openly underpaid. So, when I talk about school boards, you know, I'm just saying it for a reason, but even if it seems to be political reasons, and I'm saying more for human reasons because the teacher feels hurt. Well, he can't choose his own principal. That's what I'm talking about. Well, it's not that the teachers of fools can't choose a principal in the chamber, so let it be, in my opinion, two members of the teacher's class, let him be the employee, in fact, two members of all the school members, so to speak, let two members give parents, so that parents and teachers decide together who will manage the school where their children go. And this silly, unusual provision that she can't be a parent if she's an employee. Why can't it be? Well, God forbid our teachers have children together for three classes of school, so why don't they also be in front of the Board of Parents. I think we should think about it, I apologize for this word "fooly", I didn't think it was silly who put it on, but we just have to go back to the base, everything goes from down there, out of that town, out of that school, and that's where we have to make sure that when we're talking about decentralisation. It's been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27752	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. They say, "Let him throw away a stone that has no sin." Then you are not the only ones who exceed the time. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Marko Vučetic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27753	Here's my colleague, Žagar, I must commend your exposure because it has managed to reconcile what is pre-category and traditional in school but also in life and in this pre-category or what is not well-formed yet, which is close to art or our concern or feelings resulting in both child care and education system. I believe that this is the reason for these heated and long debates, but I hope that these discussions will also lead to a traditional development, or that we will stop looking at directors and licensing in the form of politics and increasingly in the form of education policies. If the Ministry of Education is watching, it's not education, it's the ministry, it's a political body. However, the school principal should conduct educational policies. What is breaking us today is this van impact of local policies on the selection of directors and directors at the time is not participants in the educational process but becoming evil twins of these very political and creations and being creative themselves so that I would commend this debate under that view if I understood it well, which is that licensing is necessary, that we need professional directors, that we need healthy policies and when it comes to education that healthy policies are not local, they are not educational policies, but only policies that come from our trends of what kind of citizens we need, because if they are not policies that are directed towards citizens then instead of education and education we have, we are entering the area of breeding of citizens and that is the absence of freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27754	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Vučetić. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27755	Dear colleague Vučetic! Thank you for your commendation. What's important and I haven't arrived in the last replica and I'm trying to add often I'm talking about decentralisation in the state, and it's a kind of decentralisation to leave more freedom to certain schools or to all schools to decide I'm not going to tell about the programs themselves, but in the frameworks set by the ministry, let's keep it that way but what I still want to emphasize and that's the school's head to the inside, so he's a business and professional head of school, but he has to have to have to express himself and sort of his rating to the outside, he represents the school. School principals, when you have any gathering, any ceremony comes the principal and everyone watches the school through that principal. Let's give him a little more dignity, more, yes, well, if politics appoints him, but that politics doesn't have to beat him at every step, so that he's the headmaster and he's got some kind of freedom and then he's doing what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27756	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27757	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's today we had a chance to hear a lot of things. I would like to say that we are actually witnessing that even today many directors are actually very good at work in their jobs and have shown exceptional success and that, in difficult conditions, there is much that can be achieved, so with very small funds and schools, there is much that can be restored, that fellow teachers can be sent to vocational training, work quality with children and motivate teachers to work with children, to go to competitions, to achieve extraordinary results in competitions. However, I am sorry that there has been much more talk here today about how directors have not said so far have been incompetent to this duty and more or less we have spoken and could be heard more in a negative than in a positive context. What I would point out is that school principals do not have to possess special qualifications in terms of many skills such as public procurement because if they are carrying out some high value public procurement, they must have a licensed person to do so. Therefore, they must have all these knowledge in one I would say to the superficial threshold because they do not need to be experts on this or expect it because they have to deal with many different areas and it would really be too much to expect to be experts in all these areas, but as far as their knowledge is concerned and licensing in this respect would be most important for me that they are professional in the field of education and all these other areas mean that they have some personal quality of the manager. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27758	I thank my esteemed colleague Maria Jelkovac for her replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27759	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I fully agree with you here. Once again, it should be pointed out that the principal is a professional head of school. We also see by law he analyzes the work of teachers. How's he gonna analyze it? So it has to be enough, it has to be in that section and more professional in pedagogical and other knowledge in order to be able to value the work of a single teacher when it comes to his class. The truth is that directors first and foremost need to have a good human relationship with both teachers and their relationship with teachers. But the principal is not to forget the responsibility for the work of the school. So he's the one representing the school who's responsible for her work. In that sense, a license doesn't necessarily have to be a bad thing. So let it be carried out here in law that was the biggest remark not made until this item was deleted. But in my opinion he can go back to the moment when we make these advances that we know exactly what we want, who will conduct education, who will pay I think that the ministry someone mentioned that there is an insurance fund that could be implemented because it really is a problem if and there are cases in schools believe people want to go to professional training through their assets, and they can't, they can't, they can't just get paid. I think the founder pays those costs as far as I know. And if there's no money, people just don't go, and we're like a country in very, very, very lower part of the European countries when we compare in lifelong learning, and that's lifelong learning. So the new technologies are coming. People at school have to perfect themselves all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27760	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. Next to the replica came the esteemed colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27761	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sagar, I could tell you like this, different people, different areas, different environments, different opinions, different experiences, and then here they are. What I think is a common denominator of all school management in Croatia is wrong and definitely needs to be seen not only through licenses. Prescribing norms that we know in advance that we won't implement. We're prone to it. That's what we do all the time. We always prescribe something, and then we don't do it and paralyze ourselves. But you have said a very precise sentence, and one of the directors is more capable, so they are able, so they are more advanced, so they do better, and others are not. Then you pulled this same part of the school board, the way you chose the director's appointment. Now, there's no way I can agree with you, because I have 7 schools in Križevci, 7 principals – 4 elementary and 3rd grade. I don't think any of the principals are members of any party, none of them. Three directors were definitely elected without any influence or will of local politics. We didn't even know he was elected. Because it's, it's founding rights, it's the founder's responsibility? So let's get rid of the responsibility of local self-government. Let's get her out of founding rights so she won't have any representatives inside and no problem. Until something at school is wrong and wrong, who's to blame? Local leader. I hear the word sheriffs here. Gentlemen, I repeated that in Parliament's 7th session, the sheriff is a positive term. Most of the sheriff's counter is a bandit, and don't say it that way. You speak in the right light so that definitely local self-government, the founder is totally deposed here and put in a totally wrong position.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27762	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Hrg, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27763	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg, of course I didn't tell the sheriff, didn't you think of me and I was the head of the community myself, so I never felt like a sheriff. And I think it's wrong to think that the mayors of the county are sheriffs because one said handsomely – if I knew what I was responsible for as head of the municipality I would never run for office. Many officials today are not aware of what they are responsible for. I believe that it is also the case with the principals when they assume that duty they may not even be aware of what they are responsible for inside the school. Of course I agree with you that there are environments and there are schools that the selection of directors has passed as it has passed, so politics has not been involved. There are those and where it is. But again, I point out when we talk about school boards you say and you said that that's where I agree with you school management is not good. I solely consider it responsible for the school board. I don't think he's responsible when he starts working, but he's actually responsible at the very beginning when he chooses. It's my experience, and that's what I think. It doesn't mean that these people are unemployed or that they don't want to work, it's all a matter of motive. You come to a school where teachers, teachers with lots of enthusiasm, with a lot of passion. You actually if you manage to get that and that man who comes to the school board that also has that enthusiasm then we succeed. If not, then there are problems, various problems that someone here was talking about today, and even if they were setting up barriers to the principal so he can't even do what's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27764	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. The next call came from an esteemed colleague, Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Sagar, I've come forward as Grmoya says well when you kick in here and throw in a ball, you can't say, I think it's tragic for me that you tell me what cares about the county for school. That's a really tragic statement. No matter how many individuals here consider local sheriffs, but it's very interesting one thing, when a professor from school becomes mayor, then he's a jerk because all the mayors are fools under quotes as some criminals say, the sheriffs, and I don't know what they don't, they didn't just tell them that fascists are those mayors and mayors. And the professor when it becomes a bad thing, but when he's at school, he's a golden child. I'm a professor, too. We just have a problem with the school boards deciding too much and the school boards being so tragically composed. You know when one bad-ass director then he'll be the headmaster as long as he wants with a band like this. Because he chooses his friends from the House because he's the boss. I'm not going to tell the sheriff, but it's normal for him to pick the three team that suits him, and the parent as a parent and the question is the role of the parents on the school board. He's here in a conflict of interest no matter how much we can play, you know parents, we're all parents, it's important to all of us, the school is important, but a parent can't manage a school, that's my opinion, because then this parent and these three professors are holding that principal while he wants and no county, and no local government can do anything about it. We can talk about the criteria for the selection of directors so we increase it, we ask that he has a rector's prize, that he was 5.0 at college, that he had not 10 or 30 years of internships but let's not, let's not, we want young people, so let him have 3 years of internships, we can talk about it. We can talk about the technological surplus as it deploys. And here's my time, but I'll get back to you next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27766	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27767	Thank you. Dear fellow Sanader, I admit that I was exaggerating when I said that what county cares about schools, I wanted to be a little graphic because I wanted to stress that units of local self-government and in this case the municipalities where the founder of the county are excluded from this selection of members of the school board. Of course it's not so in practice, that the county doesn't care because the county has to worry about schools, just happens really then that county doesn't have enough money so that some schools don't have toilet paper, some schools don't have basic supplies, as I said this morning some don't have fuel to cut down the yard and in that sense county doesn't have to do that, the county representatives don't have to see it, they don't have to react. And of course, we're here to face arguments and now that you've said these arguments the truth is, here I am thinking about it now, I haven't thought about it that way, and that possibility exists. And in the end, we can still agree, however, that all systems make up people and everything depends on people. Blame the principal, then the troubles come. He can indeed blackmail his employees that they have to vote for him again, and his parents are afraid of him and then maybe he's one of the solutions for the ministry to take a bigger role since the ministry and finance the greatest work and wages and material rights but then we no longer have decentralisation and that's a new problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27768	I thank my esteemed colleague Sagar for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Josip Boris reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27769	Thank you very much. You've gone a little too far today, you've been doing it since morning, and you've been quite one-sided, and you've accused the Croatian Democratic Community itself of politically humanizing all over the school boards, and you've been saying it all day, which is simply not true because there are counties where SDP has its mayor or some other parties in which some other parties have their mayors and they use the right that gave them the law to name if they're founders of their members on school boards. And when they're named, they're not sheriffs or I don't know what they're using their legal rights. You've heard several times that most of them are not on any school board unless most of them are searched through their parents or by teachers. And the Priory to argue that all directors are politically appointed by me is quite too difficult because indeed here I come from the island of Rab, we have a primary school and a principal who is already there I don't know how many mandates she is in either party, she's not a politician, she's not a politician, she's never been in any political campaign and insult these people in a way that they're all politically placed is really below each level. There is a law, the system works, it may currently have a problem with implementing the law i.e. competitions in view of the provisions that have been in force so far and we will deal with it. This debate that you have extended to the level of clean policy is really unnecessary and ask the founders that there is no right, that I have nothing to say, that I have no right to suggest, that I have no right to suggest even my representatives inside lead to that part called anarchy and irresponsibility. On one side we have a story when we're talking here's an INA MOL with small control rights we want everything and here with no control rights again is everyone's fault, let's talk like that. But be impartial and speak as it is, not just accusing one party that she's politicized into the whole system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27770	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27771	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Boris, you referred to my morning replica where I said it but I did not tell all the directors that the Croatian Democratic Community chose. I have pointed out exclusively and said that this is about my county, I said about Virovitica-Podravska County because there is no secret that the Croatian Democratic Community in Virovitica-Podravska County is in power for a very long time, and in all municipalities and all cities. And I'm in that sense, and I'm telling you, politics has an impact again. And I have nothing to apologize for, I didn't say that the directors were unemployed, I even said now in the debate despite the fact that the vast majority of them are good directors and doing their job. What would be good is that policy is excluded from appointments, in fact, from setting up a director in such a way that it is exclusively a political criterion. That's what I think should be done. And when we talk about the Founder, I'll tell you in a vivid way. If the building of the school was built there in the 1970s, and it was built from a façade brick, then the law that we brought here to the Croatian Parliament made it into the hands of the county before us, then the county became the founder, and then on that facade brick we first brought to 12 cm of Styrofoam and then we boasted something we did. In this sense, I continue to argue that many of the schools that the counties have won in management have little to do with them because they have not been built or equipped, but of course now they care to lead them in such a way that they have enough money for those basic needs. If they fail, then they cannot accept your thesis that they are particularly concerned and that they are setting up people on the school board who will only decide who will be the headmaster of that school.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27772	I thank my esteemed colleague Sagar for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Panenic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27773	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Žagar, I think that you have opened one topic which, especially all local self-government leaders, points to thinking about the school board of course and what they are making decisions about, which is the appointment of school principals and on the other hand we have mayors, mayors, local self-government leaders, now most share the same problem and this is a growing number of children in schools and how this problem comes to a solution. If we look from the very beginning, local self-government leaders are taking all measures that can increase the birth rate, encourage parents to a larger number of children so that eventually in those schools where it is a problem for the principals to organise school departments, teaching with a reduced number of children to be partners. And what do we come up with? We come to the moment when that child is involved with preschool and the law is clear, so it's organized by the municipality or city, it's not organised by the school, it's not organised by the county office for education. So we have this problem where co-operation has to be achieved and no matter what colleagues here from HDZ say and I personally and I know others have a problem that in the school board, for example, can't be present if it's not proposed by the founders' order, for example someone who's from another political option like I was. So, I can't take care of the kids in my community in a way that I can be present at school, that we share the problems that this school has, that what's the problem and these material costs that have collapsed really are here and we've personally bought toilet paper, we've been taking to school, we've been buying cleaning and taking to school, and in the end that the decision on the director has often been made by people who neither have qualifications that are prescribed nor can be competent to make decisions about the selection of directors, but were placed there exclusively politically, and then often the case that they haven't had any contact with children, with the problems of those children, the organisation of transportation and all the problems. Thus, the problem of the principal is sometimes much deeper.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27774	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27775	Dear fellow Panenić, therefore, the main problem is that children in schools are getting smaller, for us many district schools are empty or will be empty. What I have to be honest about is how to put it, and here's my colleague, Boric, in the last replica. Virovitica-Podravska County, despite my criticism of this choice of director is one of the few counties that has built very many schools, here I will say it honestly. The Croatian Democratic Community is in power in the county, there are lots of district schools, new schools, 28 here are my colleagues. So it's not a small number. But what he must again underline now, every honour to the county in that building but it is the county that again decides where we will be building schools, whether it will be in smaller areas of the school, and sometimes those schools that already exist because of what you are talking about because of their needs are simple and it is toilet paper. So there's always some kind of political decision in school management. Whether to find a model in this is certainly the highest responsibility in the ministry in which really school committees would be properly formed and completed the task being put on them and somehow it is just when you look at the school board's responsibilities or their powers first-point selection of directors and it seems to me that this is the most important function that things are now standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27776	I thank my esteemed colleague Sagar for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Žagar, you have raised an interesting question which may not be directly the subject of concrete amendments and additions to this law, however, well to discuss it, it is the role of action, so if you want the structure of the school boards. At some point in time, it seemed to me that in 2002 it began to decentralise the system of education of social care, health and fire and in that part of the country gave up a large part of its rights and declared units of local and regional self-government, founding schools. And then we had through history some changes in the structure of the school boards, so let's remember that there were nine of them, in those nine there were, most of them were representatives of the founders who, as direct representatives of the founders, strengthened more representatives of the state administration's office. Today, we have a situation that in most, I will appear to say, in most cases, the representatives of the teaching, teaching council, working council and parents, the council of parents who are, in some ways, on the one hand and the founder on the other hand, with parents very, very often the representatives of the parent council being a language on the scale, because representatives of the working council and representatives of the teacher or teacher council are obliged to represent the positions that were previously voted on by the Council. However, the fact is that the director cannot literally consume any more important authority without support from the school board starting with employment, he is responsible for the functioning of the school, but he can propose the best candidate. If he doesn't have the support of a representative on the school board, he can't really do anything. The same is true in the financial plan, in the final accounts, etc. I think we have a serious problem and that in some other perspective we have to really, the licenses are necessary here. Now whether these licences will mean full professionalisation by reducing the influence of politics and school boards or not is a question for the future I would say but very complex and significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27778	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice on the line. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27779	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've given me a chance to explain one more position. You have said very well here that this previous law of founding rights has been passed on to units of local self-government, regional self-government and cities, excuse me, so county and cities. I don't know, there's no case in my county, I don't know if there's a case in the Republic of Croatia that any of the municipalities are the founder of the school. I think it's a rare community that has such a possibility, in that sense I'm speaking. So maybe the HDZ colleagues didn't get the best of it. The municipality no longer has any authority over school, has a county. It doesn't have to mean anything. It could be in the county tomorrow, some SDP county in the HDZ municipality, but here's the political situation. So, if he's the head of the HDZ municipality, he doesn't have any authority over school, in the end he's a school in his municipality. In that sense, I say that it is not a good solution for the County Assembly to appoint three members, send me to the municipality of 3 members and say these represent your school. It's just a problem. And then this is what you're talking about, colleague Voter, because after all, the school curricula needs to be confirmed by the school board if I'm not mistaken? And what I think the curricula means is about and is about the direct functioning of the school and the direct relationship to the institutions around that school and who cares about Virovitica what school will do in Novi Bukovica. I mean, I say it harshly, but here's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27780	I thank my esteemed colleague Sagar for his reply. We have another replica after this debate. Dear colleague Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27781	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Žagar, your debate was really so sincere from the soul and it encouraged, it went beyond this topic it was true, but it raised a series of very important questions regardless of what in some of your findings I could not agree with. But I will help you respond to the replica of my colleague Sabina Vosovac. In Croatia, there are about 50 school founders, and local administrations are about 556. So somewhere around 500 administrations and leaders are not the founders of primary and secondary schools. It's mathematically about like this. Maybe something more, but it's around here somewhere. So, and we here all the time have been discussing how the influence of local sheriffs, leaders, this, the one on staffing, the influence in the selection of directors, and that's not true, because, therefore, of the seven members of the school council, four members of the direct jurisdiction, I would say so under the alleged signs of authority if the re-election of the director himself has a director, if it's about re-election of the director himself. Now, you said in one segment that it would be good if the founder had no right where the county is the founder but to leave it to the head of the municipality to have your own representative. And you have it, but you don't have most. You have one member in the school council. So, I think the founder really doesn't have jurisdiction or competence, unfortunately, but there's no financial assistance, so I believe in you and everyone else when the director comes to the municipality or a city that's not the founder that's going to help in a particular segment in the realization of certain projects. I primarily mean maintenance or procurement of certain means for the functioning of that facility. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27782	I thank my esteemed colleague, Blazen Boban, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27783	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, colleague Boban, for giving me the opportunity to explain one more thing... perhaps more vividly. So, we have the Law on Elections in the municipal councils and mayors and mayors of municipalities and in this law quite rigorously states that it must be 6 months for the mayor to be in the area of residence and that a representative in the municipal council who will be elected must have a residence in that area. Now it's just a matter of value, do we think the municipal council is worth more than the school board or is the school board just a formality, now that's it. May it remain a provision, may the founder appoint three members but may they have a residence in the area of my municipality. I mean, you see, I'm saying it now the way I feel. I mean, I feel a little offended when I get out of Slatina to my school by a representative of the school board. I may have a problem, I don't know, but here's how I feel emotionally, and I just think that a legal solution in that sense needs to be determined. Otherwise, I completely agree with you on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27784	I thank my esteemed colleague Sagar for his reply. Following an individual debate, distinguished counterpart Josip Boris reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27785	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's what I'm saying about this bill of law and a united debate since we have two proposals. One is the government's proposal, and the other is the SDP Club's proposal, and it's been piling up all day about who's right and who's right. whether the date or years they would have put in the article as an obligation is a motivating factor to finally resolve the issue of licensing of primary and secondary school directors whose founders are from cities to counties. So here's a story that lasts since 2008, when such a provision has been introduced into the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools and since then we've changed the law I think here in 2009, 2010 twice, 2011 twice, 2012, twice, 13 and 14 and now at the beginning of the year we change the law with the announcement that once again the Law on Education and Education will be completely changed. And what do you conclude now after a whole day's debate? We have simply spread so much of the problem that we have now entered the decision-making sphere, the composition of the school boards, whether it is fair, whether it is politically justified, whether those who are founders may have majority rights or less rights, given who they may or may not appoint to the school board and, of course, that one story that needs to be solved one problem that appears becomes a political problem that we solve as a whole day and we probably won't solve it all will remain in their positions. Because when we look at the system, it's normal for the founder to finance the material costs that he has to provide certain conditions, obviously wants to have his rights. But the law told him here's what I'm talking about school committees you don't have most on the school board. And then what's coming? Let's go to the whole system. We've got school. We have a school board. We have a principal, teachers, professors, we have students. We have auxiliary staff – janitors, cooks, cleaning women, we have material costs, we have salaries. Who's responsible for what in this whole system and who's doing what? We can see the system's working. Kids are at school today if they're not major elemental accidents, so they stopped someone. The system's going and we're constantly going negatively towards that system. We keep bringing him to the level that there is really nothing wrong with this school from students to directors, to material rights determined in terms of costs that arise to salaries, to everything else. I don't think the system's wrong, he's got his own problems but he's probably with those who are competent to solve them probably and solve them. We were supposed to find some kind of solution here today in a united debate but offer something better than what we got from the government or from the SDP Club. What did we get? HDZ claims, i.e. Through the ministry, but through the club, we said we'd continue the licensing process. We haven't set deadlines and we claim that the responsibility of the minister and the secretary of state that I am also free to ask in some future time did you do what you promised to do here, where it was fortunate that it was in the previous term when we set deadlines, so let's ask him why you didn't do it? So he got the basis a month ago, the basis that this system can be completed and that directors can be licensed in the future. This is the view of the HDZ Club that it believes that the current secretary of state, the minister is sufficiently aware that without putting the year as a deadline or some kind of leaflet that needs to be skipped to resolve this system since the past has been almost here for a full nine years, let's say that it has not led to the intention of future directors to be licensed and to work as they are expected, given that some of the challenges that have been put before them, above all, into a particular part of the funds, European funds of certain programmes that can be financed from European funds. What did the SDP offer? He suggested that after the years they missed, after two deadlines that were entered in their time in office, When they had one heir and one they put in themselves, it wouldn't happen because their motivation about the deadlines wasn't enough for them to finish it, so I understood it. So, two deadlines skipped, they weren't motivated enough to solve it, but now they're asking us to put that deadline in order to be motivated. That doesn't make any sense to me, but good. And we heard the Living Wall, the Living Wall said we're looking for encryption when choosing the principal in schools. It's like something secret, no one's gonna look for whose director, the codes are like that, and whoever gets elected will be the director. That's what we heard today if I listened well to the whole debate. We in HDZ, I personally remain on the claim that we have shown in the past two and a half months, a hundred days, more actually, three months and a few days, 100 days of government that we want to change things in this country and that we are ready to do things. I expect that from both the secretary of state and the minister because you are alone and through these changes, but they make a commitment to do so regardless of whether the opposition will believe them or not. But they said themselves something that I can't say that they didn't hear or said they didn't get a month ago based on what they could do in the next time. Of course, colleagues on the other hand may still doubt it but their debate unfortunately did not convince me that they had done much at a time when they could solve it if they cared so much about it. The colleagues in the Living Wall show no confidence in the system, not only this but any who exist in the Republic of Croatia, and think that this should be solved by secrecy, code and that such a system can then survive and that licensing of future directors is stupid, that it is simply not necessary and that it is quite right now that what we have is enough to respond to the challenges of the time in which they live and in which new future directors should function. And of course, the school boards and founders. I come from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, there is the SDP in power and I will not say that on every school board it is set up by the mayor all living in order of politicians. There are good people, there are different parties, there are parents, there are teachers and on every school board are teachers and the parents are most of them and that's what we've heard that it's also not good, that teachers plus parents can revote any political decision. And that's why prioritizing all the directors of politicians, labeling every chief with a sheriff without having any authority over it, the mayor of which very few have founding rights, mostly large cities have those rights, too, because they are sheriffs because they have legal right, and the mayor who represents regional level are also sheriffs because they have the legal right to propose their three members, I don't think this debate has directed them in the direction that would give solutions to what we need to solve whether we're finally going to bring this system to an end. I think it shows the past hundred days that there has been a commitment and above all the will of the ruling to resolve it and there is an administration that has to do it. I expect when the secretary of state comes out in his final address that he also says after a whole day's debate what he thinks about it after he's heard everything. And I believe deeply that this system, regardless of the limits that have been set so far and never respected, will end and that in some year at least 2019 or 2018, we will have the opportunity to start licensing directors in our schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27786	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josip Boric, for the debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27787	Mr. Boric, you said, among other things, that you were talking about political staffing, so just before that in your replica, you said that HDZ did not do political staffing, something like that, in schools, but I see that you are interested in yesterday's debate, even political staffing within our party, that it bothers you, that you have a controversial way of choosing the bodies of our party, that my role here is controversial, although unlike you I have chosen from the last place on the list and that we do not have any legitimacy. You mentioned forged signatures. Well, here's Mr. Boric, if you think that, if you want to go into the Human Resources within the Living Wall, I invite you to prosecute me, to take me to court, to lock me up, to install some other people in the lead of the Living Wall and who will be obedient to you, who will listen to you, with whom you will be able to agree, who will give you signatures when you threaten to put the government together and wish you much happiness in this business because the public will finally see what methods you are serving. And you even mentioned the financing of our campaign, you were talking about yellow envelopes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27788	Dear colleague Pernar, your time has been stopped, so there is no time for you to object by chance. So, I'm asking you nicely to stick to the topic of the debate and don't speak at all and don't address the representative in such a way. So, I'm asking you nicely to stick to the topic of debate. We are talking about the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. I apologize, but your presentation of the present in no detail has mentioned this valid topic in any word. So your time hasn't been taken away, continue for another 30 seconds but I'm asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27789	But I would just like to tell you why I am, I would like to say that no matter what the topic is, Mr. Boric comes out of HDZ every time and every time he repeats the same thing. And now no one ever interrupts him, no matter what the subject he's talking about the yellow envelopes, the story of the election of the main board, that the three presidents are choosing I don't know two board members etc. And now that I question that farce,
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27790	Mr. Pernar, you're turning off the subject, I'm taking your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27791	There, these are those methods like your predecessor Reiner yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27792	Thank you, Mr. Pernar. From what I've heard, but look at the phonogram of the session Mr. Boric was talking about the school board's election which is very much the subject of this debate and not the main committee. So please stick to the subject. Reply for the replica, dear colleague Josip Boric. Also please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27793	Thank you very much, Your Honor. But it's a little hard to stick to the subject when someone gets completely off topic like Mr. Pernar because what I'm going to say is that I'm holding up his solution here in the Croatian Parliament just as he holds on to his oath as a parliamentary representative and as he holds on to the Croatian anthem, here I think that's enough. Not that he does not respect the word he gave here, he regularly violates Croatian laws and that is why it is likely that if we have not removed one, the Mandate-Immunity Commission has removed his immunity. So he doesn't keep his word, his oath, and he thinks that's what he's supposed to do, like this replica that has nothing to do with what I'm saying. I was talking about the law and my opinion of what he should look like. He wants to deal with me here because it hurt him that their party simply doesn't know whether or not he knows the name, name and the fact that a three-member assembly is elected by the main board of five members, that a small number of people choose a number of people. And that was, I read somewhere in some media that that's how it was, and now we connect it to the school boards. ... The Croatian Democratic Community, by contrast. ... [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27794	Dear colleague Pernar, I'd like you to please don't enter the word of a colleague. And I'm telling you, my colleague Boric once again, for the last time, stick to the subject and don't interpret to us what Mr. Pernar was saying in the replica, but stick to the subject of conversation and don't answer to it because it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27795	Then I won't answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27796	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27797	The breach of Rules of Procedure under Rule 232 but in fact you have already done all this, you warned your colleague, Boric, that he was absolutely not holding the subject as well as Mr Pernar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27798	Thank you. Thank you for your help. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Ivica Misic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27799	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, it is clear to all of us that in this country, politics and politics determines everything, so most of them and the directors, but there is something good in that, there are also good directors who can also commend, the truth has the same bad ones as they chose you in HDZ because you were probably the best in that area and you are sitting in the Assembly today, so it is done, probably you are looking for the best directors that you want to put. But what would I like to say? I would always put the most capable as a businessman, I want them to be the most capable people and to lead and schools, but that would best mean schoolmates, if most schoolmates say that this man is the best that any policy should support. That's what I as a businessman could say. When colleagues who sit every day argue know who that man would run it well and I think it would be one real thing and be that man. I can only, here's a note from Vinkovci we have a crafts school. The head of the school received 50 awards from the state and three Europeans. And now some politics comes and she needs to be put away. ... Yes, although HDZ has set up but it's very high-quality. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I would suggest that directors be selected twice at the most. After eight years of working as a headmaster if this principal had success in that school and brought some rewards and worked well to that school the principal should be extended regardless of all this, and those who are not good should certainly change them. But as an economicist, I say let's give them the opportunity and colleagues to choose people among themselves because they know which are the best of quality, not give them some foreign policy or any outside world. The boards in schools are just a formality that some kind of policy directs and we do even the quality... We know it's all politics, but let's do it again with our abilities. [[You don't understand.]] Let's not look at similarities. It's time for something to change in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27800	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27801	Thank you very much. Comrade Misic, we have had directors so far. We'll have them in the future. They didn't have licenses, and you said we knew better and worse, given the results they showed while they were in office. We will probably also have better and worse directors through the licensing system no matter what they have a license. But this assumes that there will be some knowledge of a different nature than may be current directors who should learn or learn at a time when they want to license themselves and enter certain processes that can enable them and surely be ahead of us. I say first of all because there are programs and opportunities that provide us with funds that we unfortunately didn't have until 2013. And it certainly requires certain knowledge that perhaps the current directors may not have. Maybe in larger cities, they have, in some smaller cities, maybe they don't. So perfection probably won't exist. But I personally know if there's a good director, if there's a good head of local self-government. Regional Self-Government and County that understands the need you will today build a missing school basic, middle, kindergarten what children need. If there's a director who doesn't have the need to be probative, to ask, to condition, to want some better conditions for his children, if you have a chief who doesn't want to understand it, you won't do anything, whether there's a license or something else. So it's always going to be the human factor that solves certain problems. I'm saying, even though I find this licensing as imagined will come to an end and finally get rid of it. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27802	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for his reply. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Nenad Stazic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27803	Thank you. My dear colleague, I'm going to be in full agreement with you when you say that today we are here all day from a little problem creating a big problem. And that's unnecessary. This little problem can be solved very easily to set a deadline. You're saying we need to find better solutions than what the SDPs are offering and what the government is offering. It is impossible to find a better solution between these two solutions. The solution may be that the government says the deadline is the last day of the government's term of office, the last day of office, we commit to doing the job in 4 years and we will not object to it. We'll accept that. But then you say, the secretary of state and the minister are conscientious people, so we should trust them. We don't have to set deadlines. We need to trust them. I see the secretary of state for the first time. I have no reason to trust him, nor to trust him. The minister does not trust half of Croatia. Half of Croatia doesn't trust him. Half the academic community claims that man is a copyist. Why should I trust him? And in the end, you're against setting deadlines. You say we don't have to set deadlines, so I'm sure the task will be done. The world's jump record is 2 and 45, you suggest we move the line. Let's remove the bar and trust everyone that he skipped 2 and 45, we'll have world champions you know how much. Whoever jumps and says, "Here I am, I skipped 2.45." We're gonna trust him because he doesn't have a wire because we removed it. Well, that's what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27804	I would like to thank my colleague Stazic for his replica. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27805	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazic, you've had a bar a foot and a half and a half and a half and you haven't jumped once. Is that so? Is that what the arguments we're talking about today say? So you had a meter of 80, so you moved to 2, you didn't jump a meter of 80 or 2 and you're looking for 2.20. What are you looking for? Because a jumper just can't jump if he doesn't have a flyer. Well, probably. It's also possible that I agree with you. You can't jump. I believe your claim cannot stand. The minister does not trust half of Croatia. What's he gonna be a minister anyway? What does he have to say? So you don't trust 80% of Croatia, so you are a politician, a representative, and you speak. So what? Does he need your support to be a minister? You didn't give him support, but he's still the minister you can talk about. To forbid him to say, to think, that in some way and to defend himself from this attack because you think that simply people can't do anything unless they're at your will, there are also those who think quite differently and it's always the choices that will solve those doubts. Because if you lost in the field, obviously you're trying to get something in the stands and that's allowed. But let's show it on the ground how much it's worth, and we'll see how it all ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27806	I thank my distinguished colleague, Boric. The next line came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27807	My colleague I will fight you know that I often cannot resist the urge to lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure very rarely during your or after your exposure. This time in your initial presentation, you have stuck to the topic, but you have shown a lot of things or tried to recapture today's day of debate who wants – what they want by ruling, what the opposition of the SDP wants, what the HNS wants, what the Living Wall wants. However, I must correct you in some of the parts you have misunderstood. So, the opposition, more specifically the SDP, is pushing for not to give up the director's license. And since it's been over the past year and a half, there have been pre-conditions that just need to be done with certain documents, and we think two years would be enough for that. And that's a real deadline, and that's what we're proposing not to move the deadline, but to now for the first time that we started to finish it and set ourselves a goal. If you do not want our deadline we are here through the debate we are ready to propose yours, so four years of mandate is probably enough that you can commit to Croatian citizens that you will end the 30% that we have to you, what we have not yet done and we have left you 70% of what we have done. If four years isn't enough for that, I don't know what we're talking about. But you're giving up on it, you just don't want to commit to what it just gives me the impression that actually this project won't be on your list of priorities and that in the end I don't know what reason to give up the licensing that's certainly not good. Croatia needs high-level standards that we will look for and expect from people who will run school institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27808	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice on the line. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27809	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, in these amendments and the additions of the law, it does not say that they will give up the licensing of directors, it is your kind, it is your kind of predictions, they are mostly like that and I say the responsibility of the opposition is at that level that you can afford and such predictions as you can afford proposals I do not know the minimum wage that can be as much as you suggested through the law. You could have suggested 10 thousand kunas given the responsibility you have as an opposition because, say, 10 thousand workers in the textile industry wouldn't have come to you for Ibler and asked you what you did if we were out of a job. But okay, let's not go too far into that thing I'm gonna talk about what you were talking about. You were four years old, two flights, you were changing your heights yourself, you weren't motivated, your assistant minister demotivated you, even six months ago you went to Zadar because you didn't care to solve the issue of licensing of Croatian directors, director of Croatian schools, so all you're saying today is I accept the part where you did your regret where you said we were guilty of not doing it, we apologize for that. And I asked for an apology because you said the minister had no influence on the selection of directors, which is obviously not true. You know very well that without the consent of the minister, you will not become the principal of the school institution. ... That's right. [[You can't hear a hack from a bench.]] That's why it would be okay for you to apologize in that section so that there's no untruth left outside after today's debate. And I also trust this secretary of state and the minister that they will finish this job regardless of the deadlines that did not motivate you as a government to bring it at least to the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27810	I thank my distinguished colleague, Boric. It's nice to see that there's a special relationship and vibe between the two MPs, that they know each other. Next to the replica, distinguished MP Domagoj Hajdukovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27811	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, I think you've taken a little too much of your right to interpret who wanted to say and whose message it was. And if we're going to talk about the responsibility expressed in this House, I'd probably want to and I could write in it books and books of what you said while you were in opposition and until you had no responsibility but the difference between constructive and responsible opposition and irresponsible opposition is that the opposition that's responsible is careful what it says, that it doesn't make false promises that it's clear that it's inconclusive and that it proposes solutions that we've done. Also, you need to know the difference between the election and the appointment of the director, so it's not the same thing when we're talking about the powers of the minister. And in the end, you say you're not giving up licensing the director, but I can't read it from the bill or that's what the secretary of state said. This provision is simply removed from the law. I can only interpret because we don't have a clear vision of what we're going to do with school, about how reforms are going, what our ultimate goals are, what I'm talking about, so there's no strategic approach. It can also easily happen that this provision no longer enters into the law. Also, a more extensive change of law has been announced, but again I worry about which direction that change will go, when we do not know what our ultimate goal is then we are working hard and then we are not setting ourselves goals or setting ourselves processes that lead to this goal, we are not dealing with this, but we are dealing with here ad hoc issues and ad hoc topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27812	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic for his replica. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27813	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajdukovic, I know what I was saying about the opposition. I've generally warned you about the mistakes you've been making, many times I've told you that you might at some point become victims of the law you've been making, that you'll be wrong to bring them down, that you're going to get out of power, given that you've been bad as a government and more or less than what I've been saying happened, so here's your chance to warn us now for four years, and we'll see what happens from all this, and yet I believe that the Minister and Secretary of State are tasked with solving this the way it's written down in the law. And your fears are normal, which, the opposition has the right to be critical, has the right to be afraid and there in some way express your own opinions, because I say the responsibility you have, as Mr Milanovic once told me, is at that level and you can be nothing more than an opposition and that is it. And the minister and secretary of state have work to do. If it doesn't work, you have the right to question them and every time you warn why you didn't do it, you promised it here and we'll have the same right, so let's see if there's an important deadline, a year that you two skip and want again as motivation, or if it's enough to say we have the foundations, we'll do it in time that's ahead. Here, so we'll leave it for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27814	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27815	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, Boric, I would briefly refer to that part of your discussion regarding the intention of continuing the licensing process and putting emphasis on the fact that in this proposal, the government did not move to the provision which prescribed the licensing of the director, but only the part which the licence prescribed as a condition we have repeated on several occasions, and I will use the opportunity to repeat it once again and stress with the intention of underlining once again that the continuation of the licensing procedure would go and that I once again put an emphasis on one word you mentioned very often and then you probably caused other speakers to repeat it so that in the last half hour, it was repeated one dozen times, fifteen times, and that is the word "motivation". On the one hand, reading, reading the interpretation of that word, I realized, reading that it was two kinds of motivations. One's the one on the outside and the other's the one on the inside. The outside motive is that imposed by a deadline that on the predecessor model proved ineffective. The other kind of motivation is one that goes inside intrinsically for which research has shown and the waist says it's much more effective. In this sense, this motivation of this government goes from within, it is intrinsic, it will not be followed by imposing any deadlines and its attention will be on the content of once again, quality content rather than form just in order to meet up to that date some deadline and licensing system will be introduced when the time comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27816	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27817	Thank you very much. Comrade Bedekovic, you were not in office when they were in power. They interpreted every law as possibilities, the broad possibilities that the state gives to entrepreneurs, education, health care, social services, etc., so they always had that part where they explained that every law is a good framework and opportunity. We, when we propose a framework like this and the possibility that they will immediately question and say you won't. And I guess we have to agree with that, and say that it's you who's had the bar twice and you didn't want to skip it because you didn't want to, and now you need one to fall on one. But I don't know why it's necessary, and why we have to keep doubting the system that's working, and who's been in trouble a few days now, and we want to solve it through an emergency procedure so that people can choose and that they can become directors and that this administration, the minister, the secretary of state, the assistants, and finally on the basis of which they won before the month that they don't even challenge come to the end of the whole system, and that we can finally say we're done, so let's just go to school now, and license ourselves in future competitions and become school principals, and let's get away in some way and one part of politics out of it. They're allowed to continue. We have our own way, we have our own government that we want to support and let them work, and let this system come to an end and let them doubt as much as they can, at least here's more than four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27818	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. The following link was reported by distinguished counterpart Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27819	Thank you. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Mr. Brkić, I am pleased with my colleague Boric that you have stated and stressed that the Croatian education system is a good system but that it should be improved and modernised, as well as this urgent procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education, and that is one of the kinds of promotions related to the fact that all of this goes in favour of both our directors and children who are the most vulnerable group, especially children with special needs. What's also good and what's good is that you noticed that the system is going and that the system is working. Yes, both in Gorski Kotar's stables and in the villages like with half and more metres of snow today, the system is working and everyone is doing their job. However, the issue of heating or toilet paper has been raised here today, so I think it would also be good to say clearly and loudly that schools, according to reported needs, receive financial resources and the school's financial plan brings itself to the principal, so I believe that only licensing will go well in favour of much better planning of financial resources, and therefore I think more should be given support and licensing and, of course, the law itself concerning the provision of easier conditions for children with special needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27820	I thank my esteemed colleague Majdi Buric. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27821	Thank you. Comrade Buric, we insist on what we think is good, we think this bill is good, that it is not a hindrance to what colleagues from the SDP have suggested. They are ultimately asking us to accept their solution and the border they would set, we think there is a better way that the government has proposed, and we will accept it. They unfortunately missed their chances and of course we listen here all day long, we listen to them, everything is bad, and in fact we have inherited them in some way and we have to determine that it is exactly what they say. But I'm saying, funding schools is especially in the material part of the county's powers. There are counties that may be able to do something more, there are counties that can do something less but schools will work and will continue to function further, the law will be passed and we will ask the secretary of state and the minister that what we have adopted today and what we are talking about is being fully implemented as promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27822	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27823	Thank you. Mr. Vice President! I'll try to be as brief as possible because a lot of thesis is already repeated, I'll speak from my personal experience. As far as licensing is concerned, I can say on my own behalf that it is always good to set some deadlines. On the other hand, the deadline is not a guarantee that something would be implemented that tells us the experience of the past governments, but I would like to draw something positive out of this debate, which is that we have nevertheless created some consensus that the licensing of directors is necessary. In what form it will be carried out we do not know, but professionalization of the principal position is very, very important in the school system. I can tell you this from personal experience because I know which principal has the place in the education system. We're here talking even about some external functions of the principal as the school looks. However, the director directly influences the education and education of our children, from banal things, means to choose a classroom for a class where there are children with developmental difficulties, a classmate who has a sensitivity for such a child, that he will choose a classmate in which there are many problems of children with ADHD, who have patience and that directly influences the education and education of children. In addition, the principal organizes the entire work of the school, along with the captain agreeing with the captain. It actually organizes teaching according to the teaching standard so that the first or second hours are subjects that are educational content as it goes 5 and 6 hours of educational content where children are less concentrated. So these are little things, but it has a lot to do with our children's educational process. So I think licenses are necessary. In what form will it be implemented we have seen that European practices are different. What would not like to happen, but it has been said more than once in the debate that the director must not be the manager, that it is one function or one of the skills that would be desirable for him to own, but the principal must primarily be the pedagogue because he works directly with the children. As for the school boards and the selection of directors, the director's licenses will not reduce the impact of policy i.e. will reduce them but will not resolve the policy impact on the selection of directors. I had a principal in my school who was kind of chosen from politics. Now came the principal who was elected by the school board outside politics and both directors were good. So the guarantee that someone has been chosen from politics or not politics is not crucial, but it should certainly reduce the impact of politics on the selection of directors. And a colleague of Sabina Vosovac said it was really true that the influence of parents or representatives of the parent council was crucial in the selection of directors. And you should also point out that when selecting the principal, a representative of the parent council must listen, i.e. to choose the man who chose the entire board of parents. So, at my school there were 54 classes and all the candidates for the principal were presented to the Board of Parents who had the right to choose. And a representative of the board of parents had to listen to most of the votes, so that recommendation. And what I would like to point out in the context of the equipment of schools is that in the City of Zagreb, the members of the school board in the order of politicians think that this is the only county or the City of Zagreb receive compensation. So for each meeting they get about 380 kuna. Now you're multiplying the i.e. sum up all primary and secondary schools in the City of Zagreb with members of the school board you actually get millions of dollars going to politicians, and very rarely these school board meetings last half an hour. And now think about when that money that goes to politicians on school boards would be directed to schools, to school equipment, to pills as much as it would mean to kids at school. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27824	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27825	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sladolev, we all agree that we want such an education that will enable our children and students to have as high quality education as possible, acquire the skills to be more competitive on the labour market tomorrow and you said that this is the crucial role of the director as he manages the institution and as he motivates his associates to transfer knowledge to students. I claim that the director has a very narrow space because in order for him to have a high-quality and motivated collective these teachers and teachers must also have adequate compensation for their work, and we have witnessed that in the previous period their salaries were constantly lower than they were supposed to be, that they were promised equalization of their personal incomes with other civil servants and tenants and that it did not occur and there was indeed a director in a poor position to motivate his colleagues to work better. He is also the director in a certain way constrained with space because for equipment, investment, investment maintenance his founder whether the city or county gets funds from the ministry that determines the quota and amount of funds and in the last 4.5 years the funds 10, 15, 20% are reduced in which year and under such circumstances it is difficult to maintain the level and quality of teaching. And besides that, we have a problem of ingenuity where your founder is, for example, the city, and the regional school is on some unit of local self-government that is not under the city, and there is neglect and district school and non-investment in the same. And we even have examples of where to build a new school facility in Ruščica near Slavonski Brod or where a new school opened in Pokkraj after 7, 8 years, where it was precisely that the ministry regulated the relationship between founders and units of local and regional self-government. And the absurdity of being a larger county corresponds to the cost incurred at school because the principal did not pay the salaries properly even though the mayor had no influence on it and surely that system should be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27826	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27827	Mr. Vice President, I apologize if I said crucially, I meant a very important function that is in educational education and I personally as a teacher for 20 years have witnessed all the reforms that have broken over the back of teachers and parents and I fully agree with you that the motivation of teachers with current salaries cannot be to the extent to which they should be but most teachers do their job zealously despite that salary they have and agree with you that the only right of reform that should go to school is actually an increase in the salaries of teachers and teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27828	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague of Sladolev. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Ivica Misic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27829	Thank you. Vice President of the Parliament! My colleague Sladolev, I'd like to ask you a question. Since you've been working at school for years, I would have asked you how would you choose a principal? Would you choose between your colleagues that you know or that someone outside would give you that idea? I think that, personally I think every normal man wants between colleagues where they sit to choose those who are capable. We have all the demagogy and the political game. We need to stop it, we need to start working, seriously address issues in some narrow bodies, here to give solutions. We also see this with Minister Barisic, two major universities gave him a green light but someone remembered, saw or some of our academics gave the same support but did not support journalists and similar people who even had nothing to do with what they were saying. So I'm asking you, how would you choose a principal in your midst? Here, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27830	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27831	I would like to choose, of course, someone in my midst and I chose. So, two years ago, I had the opportunity to choose the principal, I was president of the school board, I was just one vote in all of this, and it's normal and human to have people choose between themselves the man they think is the best. And again, I want to repeat that this system that we now have that should reduce the impact of politics on me, so I think that the county or city, in this case the City of Zagreb should have its own representative but I disagree that it should be three representatives, I think it should be two so that in some way it increases the influence of even more parents and teachers to elect a director.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27832	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27833	A colleague of Sladolev, in some cities the fees for members of the school boards are numbered in these amounts greater than a thousand kunas, you mentioned. In most cities and counties, members of the school board do the job without any compensation. And secondly, you've well detected what all of a director should be and what he should be doing, which are the challenges put before them. However, we have truly beautiful people in the system who are doing very well. Here, I can think of a school from Slavonski Brod where Mr. Spray, using the European Union funds, made a small production plant out of that agricultural school and it's really beautiful where it's developing. You have a director from Zadar Tihomir Tomčić, and they also produced the first electric vehicle, a charger for electric cars, using funds from the European Union. And there are examples that can really mate with modern European schools and that are indeed the pride of the Republic of Croatia. However, there are those who, not only as I would say, allow politics to interfere with their butics that have no courage or will, in fact, resist political pressures. And I am saddened to see it as I see it today in the morning list, says the director of the Sibenik Technical School threw out an exhibition titled “Ana Frank – History of the Present” because they said they had placed panoes on which the Ustasha criminals and partisan flowers were placed. Well, now, while we have directors who instead of working on school development, who instead of watching them use funds, improve school development, help teachers, teachers, children, as long as we don't have such directors, but those who simply send an example in this way and the public and work from school cases and throw ultimately at the entire management system have no help. There won't even be a license to help until we condemn some things and say politics a lot of expertise, let's do your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27834	I thank my dear colleague Sabina the Voice. I'd like to ask you to stick to the time-limited debate. Answer, dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27835	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I agree with you that, for example, I don't know if you would comment on this particular case, but this director could theoretically have a license to have licenses and that wouldn't sort of amnesty from that event. So it's very possible that we'll have cases of directors who have malfeasance or who do such things with a license. What is important is that it will professionalise the work of the director, and as far as the fees on school boards are concerned, here I would mention once again that this is a small problem for the city of Zagreb. That's not a problem, I don't want to be hypocritical, I'm also a member of the school board also getting that fee but I think that in the city of Zagreb a lot of the larger financial has especially as regards school of unsupervisedness and that the money that otherwise gets members of the school board should be invested in much more valuable projects and kindergartens etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27836	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Marko Vučetic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27837	Here, my colleague, Sladolev, I agree with you in the part where you say that the role of director cannot be automated to such an extent that we hold that they will now, at some level, metaphysically begin to create new policies in schools. We also need licences for all directors to be trained and that all schools meet the same requirements and that we have equal pedagogical standards on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. The part that I'm being disputed about is the pool of those potential personnel. When the school board picks the principal from the pool of his friends or colleagues, he chooses a friend, not a principal. And that's why we need this licensing to have a pool of personnel who meet exactly those requirements called the school director or according to this new profession. Because that way we're chasing levels just as much as it would be when we read a media article or media content about something that's going on at a school, it's not pedagogical truth, it's media truth. So in schools, we should not be allowed to have our friends run schools, nor our party colleagues, but rather to be principals, and that is only possible for licenses. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27838	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetić, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Vučetic's that licenses will help to reduce such influences, including friendships and policies, but will not solve the problem until the end. You'll have at my school 50 of us when it's open or school or high school place to license, I'm sure 10, 20 people from my school will apply for that schooling. And then we'll have the same problem again. Also, a lot of political personnel will apply for the director's license and compete for it again. So I'm actually saying that we expect too much of the director's licensing to solve. They'll improve the current system, but they won't solve the problems we have in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27840	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27841	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Sladolev really agrees with your presentation and with your debate here because it is true and the licensing will not depart from those who have such intensities of political staffing because the competition will come up with two, three, five licensed persons and we will generally, if we do not have it, we will not avoid anything again. However, I was offered something here that you have truly honestly said and honestly that the school boards in Zagreb have a fee. I don't know maybe somewhere else in Croatia it exists. No, only in Zagreb. Both Zagreb and Slavonski Brod, and Solin, and they are all in Croatia in one unique educational system. That's what one of the directors tells me, obviously looking at this here today, says, obviously we are in our unity, in our community with the local level, parents and students are maintaining this system. But the legislator who in the past has changed the law 11 times today, and the directors do, in that forest, the law is absolutely lost. It is therefore necessary to pass a single educational law up to the smallest detail, and as such a fee for members of the school board that it is unique throughout Croatia. And the directors, I will say and I am convinced that in Croatia there are a really large number, a very large number of very high-quality, responsible and conscientious directors. It's not easy for them to get along in the woods either. Here's a rule of 11 new amendments to decisions and laws since 2008, without speaking to those of others who come from other segments, as regards the director and the public procurement and the others that we mentioned here today. I'll say it on one example. Thanks to the intensities of the directors in the environment in which we are the city of the size of 25 thousand inhabitants, it is the second primary school in 10 years, and they are the ones who encouraged it in view of the size of the number of children in schools that I had already spoken through one of the exhibitions. So thank them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27842	Thank you, dear colleague Boban, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27843	Thank you, colleague Boban, so it is, you're right. So we don't have the same education not just as far as school boards are concerned. We have nothing to do with school textbooks, classroom equipment. You have classrooms in Gorski Kotar that you have to put wood in the oven to warm up, while you have schools like that in the city where everything is computerized. So we have a very diverse education system. As for the school board. I was even embarrassed, I had a friend in Split, and every time she went to the school board she was crying, she said again I had to go to the school board and we just have to make a half-hour decision. I'm here to tell you the truth, it's not hard for me to leave I'll get 380 kuna in those half hours, and it's not fair for real.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27844	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for his reply. The next member of the line came from a distinguished colleague, Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27845	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Sladolev, I would only briefly really refer to the part of your debate in which you put your attention on school committees, the composition of school committees and the role of founders throughout this story. It is certainly good that although it is not a measure of the things that we are discussing today, and we are discussing licensing but it is good that this topic has been crystallized also as a basis for another debate when we are discussing more complete changes and additions to this same law that should be in order this year as well. What am I saying? When it comes to the founder, you now have that one dilemma and one very important question. If the founder of the school is a city or county regardless, this founder of whoever he was is also a state, we have cities and counties in primary and secondary schools, by logic things have responsibilities because he's called the founder, responsibility for the institution that is so. Then he, on the other hand, has the right through his representatives to know what is going on and to participate in the decision-making process. So it's reality and it should be taken into account and it's just like that. Now, that's a double sword. To what extent can the founder, through members of the school board, who can reach the majority with their parents or anyone else, go into an emphasis on political influence through the founders. So, this is a topic that we can and should discuss in this House of higher education, so at the legislative level, we can regulate this issue so that I would say that we can bring to order the state of consciousness of the school board members in this sense to start thinking about what is the well-being of the school, the institution, and what is above that. So in that sense we could say, "Let the stone be cast by the one who has no sin." So, there's a lot going on, and in that sense, I think it should be better regulated legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27846	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. Answer? There isn't. Thank you very much. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27847	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I answered the replica from one topic, but let me refer to what it was, which is the city of Zagreb. I'd say it can be said in one sentence, it has, it can be said. The city of Zagreb acts in a number of ways as an island, as if Croatia and other laws were not applicable, so it is also there compared to what you said. It would be logical, for example, to be a one-way course in all schools in the city of Zagreb, it would be logical that when children are enrolled in the first grade of primary school, parents do not have to buy toilet paper and everything else. In the city of Zagreb it is true, and they are paid, therefore work fees. For example, I have now tried to find how much is in the budget of the city of Zagreb for primary schools, so it is quite difficult to find. But for example, it is convenient to know, let's say the city of Zagreb 920 million kuna in its budget has for preschool education. When you say 920 million kuna, then it's one imaginary number, but it's good to put it in context. The budget of the city of Rijeka is 800 thousand kuna. I see the candidate for, 800 million kunas apologize. I see my colleague Oprah's looking at me. The budget of Split, which did not pass, was quite unrealistic, went to a billion kuna. Real about 800 million kunas. In Zagreb, 920 million kuna is preschool education, so we know what we're talking about. But I answered for another reason. All day long, we've been listening to a debate about whether or not we're in a position to get a deadline in the law until it's time for the director to be licensed or not. You said you were okay with it at first, so then you did a little resterating. I'm wondering if you really are, that the law says it's time to license the directors or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27848	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark-Taritash, on the replica. Answer, dear colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27849	Thank you. I think I've made myself clear about it. I said personally that deadlines improve things, but that they do not guarantee success. So here is the secretary of state who, I think, is politically responsible for his work, who will therefore be responsible for his minister and that. And I said that deadlines are not a guarantee that something will happen because we have experience from past parliaments. So here, the deadline would be good but it's not a guarantee of success in the project area.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27850	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for his reply. And we have another replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27851	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, I was offered to report and replicate my colleagues for this, uh, statement of yours on the school boards' fees. But my colleagues have already made a statement about it, so I won't repeat myself. So, indeed, most of the members of the school committees in the Republic of Croatia are without compensation and I think we should really thank these people for volunteering and for wanting to contribute in this way to the community in which they live and all schools and the work of schools and their progress. What I'd like to say is, we've heard a lot today that he's giving up licensing with this bill of amendments. It's really not like that. Article 117 shall remain in force. It refers to licensing and therefore does not give up. In my humble opinion, the proposer himself was deleted by Article 126a. The easiest normative way to address the existing specific situation is because there are currently several requests for the appointment of directors at the ministry's disposal. So where the proceedings started last year are not completed and these procedures should be completed properly. I think this is the simplest way to suggest, which doesn't mean that you're giving up licensing and that it's necessary to write a deadline in law in order to do so by that deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27852	I thank my esteemed colleague Maria Jelkovac for her replica. There's no answer. I thank you for saving Mr. Sladolev's time. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27853	Thank you, esteemed Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have two proposings, let's say a similar law that speaks of elementary school, high school education. And what you got on the bench is the CNS amendment to this topic. The Government proposal, which can certainly support the amendments and additions to Article 1 that are necessary, but Article 2 cannot support where Article 126a is deleted. which states that the principal of the school institution, subject to the conditions laid down in Article 126, must have a licence for the work of the director. We simply believe that this is a step back in improving both primary and secondary education. However, when we talk about the SDP proposal then we see the possibility to extend the deadline, to respect this by the end of 2018. So let's say almost two years and that's an acceptable solution. However, in order to make it possible to do so, I will show one buildup and the Government's proposal and the SDP's proposal, HNS, in its function, I would say that I would like to set my amendments where we propose to delete Article 2 of the Government's proposal and where, also in the transitional and final provisions of the amendment, we extend the deadline until 1.1.2019. Well, technically, I think the government should consider this proposal. In my opinion, in this situation where there are justified reasons for amending and supplementing the laws, the appointment of the directors to whom the term of office has expired and should simply not have a lower level of school, primary and secondary suffering because of what the executive authority has not done. All governments so far since 2008. It's simple, but we in HNS are not meant to take a step back and lower the criteria. I am surprised, and I would suggest, that the Secretary of State listens carefully, Article 126 of the current law, item three that were adopted in 2005, which speaks if someone who does not have a high, higher preparation or a four-year Teacher's study appears to be a headmaster and has two consecutive mandates. The suggestion is to delete it, because I don't think there's any need for that anymore. In 2005, I believe that there have been, however, more and more young people highly educated, professional who meet the criteria and conditions, so I find this simply unnecessary. By deleting paragraph 3 of Article 126, it would be a step forward. Also, do not delete Article 126a. More and more challenges today are being put before the principals. We've heard about school committees, ways, etc., so I can agree with most of these discussions. But we also have to make sure that both the school board and the principal have to account for someone. It's about public money. Furthermore, today, the director is looking at projects, running for certain projects on EU funds. He has to take care of the school, the gym depending on the size of the school, the infrastructure. So he must have some knowledge, some extra skills that are put before him every day. He needs to know how to read legislation. And we think this licensing is something like let's say lifelong learning. And now what message is sent by the Government by deleting Article 126a. Not only is it a step back, but you're sending a message to citizens, parents whose students go to primary and secondary schools. Well, here's the principal can be the one who doesn't have some qualifications, not necessarily, but the message can be read like that. I am also surprised by the HDZ Government and the MostA, which advocates certain parolees to say that in the public sector they must be professional, capable, highly educated through public competitions. So still certain criteria for public sector governance, and here we go with a lower criterion. It's kind of out of line with what you're saying, what you represent. So I suggest you consider this proposal, and it was also put forward on behalf of the HNS Club I will now repeat it, accept the amendment to Article 1 of your amendments to the law is correct, more than acceptable. Article 2 to be deleted and accepted or our deadline set in Amendment 31.12.2018 or to accept the SDP bill which has just given the time limit not to be deleted means from the invitations to tender Article 126 and that it must be a licence and to comply with the 2019 licensing. I believe that this is not a problem, but I will repeat by removing the article, by erasing the article where licensing is required step back, not by setting certain deadlines as targets that we want to do, I think it's not good. It is not good and a message is sent back to the general Croatian public. When we talk about whether it's an optimal solution, I'm going to refer to what my colleagues and colleagues discussed about the school boards. There is much in this law other than the school boards and this paragraph 3 of Article 126 should be corrected so that I would not be able to discuss it now, but it should certainly aim at one optimum. Because let's be realistic and objective. The composition of the school board however they set it is not ideal, but what we need to strive for. We need to look at the reality that is in life, which is on the ground, anything or dare I would say 90% of the school's success depends on one person and that's the director. That's the principal. I've had through my work experience with let's say two kinds of directors. Unfortunately, one who didn't even know that the city had turned its insides over the people on the local board, had slowed down two classrooms at his primary school. Now he's the new director who practically knocks on the door all the time, Mayor, even if the county's the founder. We should help this for our students. Proactive, a high school principal who has already attracted over 4 million kunas from European funds. But when you look at the CV of that person, I believe she'd pass the license in a second. But why? Over 7, 8 years, there have been no courses from foreign languages, from the head of EU funds, from management, etc. etc. Let's be correct, Secretary of State, accept this proposal, and I believe it will be an optimal solution. Of course, in due course, you will have to try as soon as possible to create the criteria for licensing, because this is a step forward, and unfortunately I have to consider this a step backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27854	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27855	Thank you. You say dear colleague Batinic that the HNS is against lowering the criteria so that the director can be anyone. I agree with you, but now that I've read the news that was published an hour ago at 15.57 on the portal of one serious daily newspaper, not on any portal, then it becomes clear to me why HDZ is objecting to the licensing of directors. The news is actually too scary. The head of the Technical School in Sibenik banned part of the exhibition Ana Frank – History in the present. Sibenik was supposed to be the 24th city where the exhibition was set up, and as part of the international project it will be exhibited in 40 countries of the world. The presentation in Sibenik was created through the collaboration of the Croatian Educational House for the Evolution of Agreements and the Association of Houses Ana Frank from Amsterdam. Although the organizer of this exhibition warns everyone in advance, but everything where the exhibition is set up is that there is a European part of the exhibition and part that shows local history. No one had a problem with that except the headmaster of the Technical School in Sibenik. Out of the 30 worlds, six domestic pans were scheduled to be placed. The directors were disturbed by the fact that the Ustashas were depicted as criminals who slaughtered Serbs and Jews and starved children and asked for these panorams to be removed. The organizer of the exhibition refused and the exhibition was withdrawn. This head of the Technical School in Sibenik would not have been licensed in any European country, in any country. And now that this government and HDZ refuse to set a license deadline, it becomes more clear to me why.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27856	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic, on the line. The answer to the esteemed colleague Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27857	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Stazic, I am not directed enough to comment on the director's actions, but what you said is difficult for me to assess, but it is unacceptable for me at first. However, the question is also raised when licensing itself, which will be the criteria for licensing, or what to learn. It's history, it's ethics, it's a question, and I'd even dare say it politically, even though I think that in this part of it, primarily when we're talking about policies in education, and not about this part, I certainly can't agree with that director on the basis of what you said happened. I think it's unacceptable and inappropriate, and that's where we're going back to the founder and the school boards. I think it's a theme for the school board and that it's served by the school board, because it's basically controlled by the director's work. I guess if the school board is the founder, someone should start a certain initiative and reconsider the behavior of the director in question. Now, I also remember believing that you were once representatives of the state administration, there were even nine members of the school board, I don't know if it's 7 or how much today. Because I've never been involved in these calculations or who's proposing who, who's choosing whom. It just wasn't necessary. However, I think that we should rise especially in educational institutions from such things as have unfortunately happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27858	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for his reply to this replica. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Mr. Honorable colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27859	Thank you, Your Honor. Today, this debate has taken a pretty long time, and I'm sorry it hasn't been directed in any other direction. We have a problem in Croatia for hungry children in primary and secondary schools. These amendments to the law will not solve the problem. I think it's embarrassing and sad if one child at school is hungry, but unfortunately I can see that all those bellies from this House can't see it, or understand it because it's said that you'd understand someone first you have to walk in their shoes. Those who led people to the container, to the ranks in front of the soup kitchens, unfortunately for such things, don't care. But there's something that matters to them, and it's whether the directors have a license or they don't and that the thing gets worse eight years ago is already passed that regulation that they should have it, so now after eight years that nothing's been done is moving it now. Well, as far as I'm concerned, you could've left it for another 50 years to stand, you wouldn't have spent it anyway. Nothing will change this regulation. The letter of the law changes, in practice changes nothing while children in schools starve. Why doesn't the state protect those children? Why not say that children who, according to their own testimony, lack money or whose parents do not have money do not have the right to a free school meal. You'll say, so as there are some social censorships. So what's a social censorship worth to a hungry child? What does it have to do with his parent’s formal lack of the right to have a free meal, which is hungry? What kind of bureaucratic form do these children have? Unfortunately, nothing, but let's say, let's say my colleague Sincic was a model student, never prescribed at school. I was shocked to hear that, and his classmates confirmed it to me, but let's just say I was cheating. And if I was caught by a copy teacher, I'd be punished, I'd be taken a test, I'd get one. But when the Minister of Education prescribes from someone else and hands over part of someone else's work as his work, there's no sanctions. So there's a repression in schools against kids, and kids are starving. And one more thing. Who does education exist for? For who, ladies and gentlemen? Well, it's the kids. How many student representatives sit on school councils? Zero. Imagine the students who are subject and in fact the subject throughout the story presents them as some object that is not wondering anything. Why are children not the ones whose voice can be heard, whose opinion can be heard? Why don't children take a democratic path, students at school can run as many kids as they want for the lead, i.e. for the school board and let those with the most votes be elected. You'd learn democracy, you'd learn the election process. She would see that they too decide, or co-determination. But, of course, the education system is undemocratic, the children are not wondering. There are all kinds of changes being introduced, changes like national graduations. What did national prom do? How much did the number of jobs increase due to the introduction of the state's graduation? Zero. The results of the PISA tests, so international standards are a disaster. We're below average. Instead of blaming an educational system that doesn't teach children to think, which teaches them to beat themselves up. He's a minister or a politician who already apologizes, I don't think he's a minister, someone else blamed the children of the national minorities that we're weak because of them, etc. It's everybody else's fault, but those who created this system are not their fault. They're never guilty, nor can they be guilty. And mostly suma sumarum in school is a disaster. Young people are not interested in politics, in the political process, they are not told anything about it. Children in schools don't have the right to a replica, they don't have the right to an individual debate, they can just sit there and shut up and have no right to their own opinion. The professor is always right and that's it, it's an education system under your leadership, ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ. Yeah, that's what it looks like. And, of course, children don't like to go to school, of course children's materials are boring, of course children are marked from school. Well, I've marked it myself, of course, so who's gonna listen to those stories. Who's going to listen to ladies and gentlemen? So you yourselves do not come to the meetings of the Parliament, and if the child does not come, then one hour will be left behind. Try ladies and gentlemen plagiarizing let's say copy to college exam. You're being kicked out of college. The measures are against dragon students. I don't know my name as a politician that I ate on someone else's ixica, it's an accusation against me. Now, these are structures that serve people like the Bujanc and the like. I'd like to get out of this debate smarter. So I'm looking for three things to start with. That your hungry children are given a free meal and that some bureaucratic censorship can't be the key to determining who has the right to a free meal, who doesn't, so whoever has nothing to do with it is hungry. And you know why it doesn't matter? Because we're here in the Assembly, because there's toilet paper in the bathroom. See what the price of food is, how much the price is I don't know the juice, coffee, tea in the Assembly, see what it is like in primary or secondary schools, in the canteen in high school canteens. Why do kids in high school say V. high school where I went, why do they have to pay VAT when they're drinking coffee or tea and we don't have it here? Why don't you release the VAT of the school cafeteria? Well, kids aren't richer than us. But you don't care. You're interested in the regulation of the director's license, the whole day is this debate here and it's clear from the plane like I said you passed a law eight years ago that you didn't do anything and you know what happened? You stole the whole day talking about nothing eight years ago, so now after eight years, you're stealing all day talking about nothing, and like I said to the kids, it's a disaster, it's a disaster. You destroyed young people's future, you took away their chance to live in this country. With me at the gallery upstairs before this debate there was a girl who was traveling to Germany tomorrow because there was no work for her in this country. And he says how many young people in their 20s are gonna be sitting on a bus with me tomorrow. Who's the HDZ gentlemen interested in? You took care of your children. Your children are fine. The sons of the tycoon you created are being scattered with money and we're discussing what? What's the big deal here all day? So do you gentlemen listen to yourself from HDZ? So ask the public that this circus, this farce, is watching who cares what you're talking about? You have no shame looking me in the face, that's sad. If you have no shame in looking me in the face as I speak at least look yourself in the mirror and ask yourself what laws you are dealing with and what you are putting on our agenda. These laws are no use to anyone. And I repeat, you need to include the children in the school boards. Well, I can't have kids who are subject to the whole story being excluded from making decisions. Well, he has to ask them. No, but you're gonna say what we care what the kids think they're kids. They're not children to me. These children will be voters tomorrow and they will judge you, young generations whom you have not washed your brain through Stankovic's shows and state television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27860	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27861	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Pernar, thank you for an interesting debate. You had a few interesting points. However, in this replica, you said that you did not know which person from the Ministry of Science and Education was insulted by national minorities, children with disabilities, so I only wanted to remind you that it was State Secretary Matko Glunčić and that the committee, many members and members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and also the defenders of several of them and the complete Croatian public who had been scandalned by such statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27862	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27863	So you know what Mr. Glavasevic is going to say, blame the children of national minorities for the poor results of these standardized international tests, it's like blaming bottle collectors, people who freeze in front of soup kitchens and homeless people for this catastrophic economic situation in the country. You know who's to blame, you know who's to blame for this state of education, for what they are. Be careful this proposal is put on the agenda, this proposal is yes, and when they took the rights of teachers and students, then it was a higher priority. And so you're reducing your rights to teachers, you're stripping material rights, you're destroying students, and that's what I said you're burying us with legal proposals that are playing with form. It's like now you're discussing whether in law writing a decimal at the beginning or in the middle of a sentence or in the end. Now because of one mistake you've made yourself that nothing will change this law in practice? Nothing. Everything will remain after this amendment to the law, everything will remain the same as it was. So ask yourself if the citizens want things to stay the way it was. The citizens want to change, they've had enough of all this. I can't listen, you say we can't listen to you, so they had to listen to you for 25 years. How long will he listen to you? Enough of that, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27864	Dear MPs, please don't get your colleague Pernar in my word. He just realized that a little too much, now he's had a photosession up at the gallery so I hope that it will act gently on him to calm down. And really please don't raise your voice because as I told you yesterday there is a voice in the Croatian Parliament and we hear you well enough. Thank you very much for your answer. The next call came from a prominent counterpart Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27865	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Brkic. Here's Mr. Pernar when you talk about families where children don't have for school kitchens, I think you should mention and not be selective in information, so you should mention free meals for 23 thousand children provided by the Children's Foundation in 2008 by the Republic of Croatia. So 23,000 free meals just by the trust. In addition, I think that you should have also mentioned local self-government and regional self-government that regularly helps co-finance or finance children in such difficult positions. Since you said that children are deprived of the right to any decision, I believe that you should have listed the Council of Students who exist in all primary and secondary schools, where students and class representatives are just now co-determining and co-creating certain policies and where they can express themselves on their opinions and where they express themselves. You could also mention debate clubs whose representatives in Croatia are extremely advanced and extremely successful at the level of the whole of Europe and beyond, you could mention civil education and education programmes that are being implemented and that teach about the parliamentary system on democracy, etc., so that I believe that it is not all as black as you show it, and I think that you should be much more transparent about all this and not approach it so selectively and say what it really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27866	I thank my esteemed colleague Majda Buric for her replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Pernar. I hope you don't raise your voice...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27867	You said ma'am that kids can have student councils. And what can the student council decide on, what? About choosing a principal, who's going to be busy at school? No, I can't decide anything. That's my dear lady dog democracy. And you know what dog democracy is? There's an English expression you can bar you can bark, at least you can't get near the bon. And that's the democracy that you give to the Croatian people because people can say whatever they want and dig through the trash and decide nothing. And as for hungry children, or your stories about how many free meals you provide, I'll read you a story from the tram. This is the title: “Dad, I’m hungry. An earthquake story from a Zagreb tram that no one has ever been indifferent to. The father collects bottles, the mother can't find a job." says one woman driving on the tram "During today's usual tram ride at the last station the father enters under the left hand of two crutches, while on the right trying to hold a wheelchair with a small child. He finally manages to sit on an empty seat until the baby wakes up. The first thing he's saying is, Dad, I'm hungry. Dad explains how there were no bottles today, and that he managed to buy him only one ton of cake that promises that Dad will always manage to write in..." Ladies and gentlemen, do you think you have nothing to do with it? Do you think that man and his child are just wrong? From what I heard where you justify your policy, I realized that you care about Croatia, that you love Croatia and that you do everything you can to help but the people don't trust you, ma'am. This man who says there wasn't much of a bottle today, I doubt he trusts you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27868	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27869	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pernar has little of this debate today reminds me of Ionesco's theatre of absurdity. With all the problems that the Croatian education system has and which one comprehensive law could systematically solve us after a year of this and the previous government that lasted we receive a draft law that counts only 3 articles. And these 3 articles are also not addressed on time to this Croatian Parliament until 31 December. So a year couldn't write an article that would extend the time limit for licensing the director that we don't have a vacuum now and that schools can't actually be chosen because no one meets the conditions. People come forward but the competition has to be canceled, no candidate meets the conditions. Three articles were to be written for a year. Not to mention that I have to admit that in January 2017, we will have a law that will create assumptions for the experimental introduction of curricula reform into our schools that children no longer work under the 90s programmes, to implement strategic guidelines in such a way as to disburse directors in programmes that teach that they have more time to devote themselves to children, to create legal assumptions for better integration and children with disabilities and minorities in our education system and all that we should actually do this year if we want to respect the documents that have been adopted in the Croatian Assembly. And if what the prime minister said in his opening speech in the Parliament when he represented the government is true, which is that education is his priority over priorities. Unfortunately, however, all the moves that come into this House and this legal solution also says that unfortunately, education somewhere at the bottom of a priority scale, not only education, but children and their parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27870	I thank my dear colleague Sabina the Voice. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27871	Dear colleagues, I can tell you that I fully agree with your presentation. I simply don't understand how that the HDZ colleagues are so deaf that they don't hear and understand what they're being told all the time, that I can't understand that these amendments to the law will not change anything and that the problems in school exist, that children in schools are hungry, that teachers and teachers are systematically demoted, that children who are objects or subjects of the whole story of the education system don't decide at all, have no right to represent themselves in school councils, etc. And even in colleges, here's what I don't know if any of the HDZ colleagues know there's a student representative out there who's co-determining in college administrative decisions, but in schools, no, I don't know why. And I repeat, if I can, if the minister can prescribe, I call for it to be softer to the students, simply to tell the children that they can also copy or finally replace that minister and that in fact break this farce where the weakest members of society are trained by rigor, and big fish like Eve Sanader are seen through the fingers. And we see that the Supreme Court releases HDZ, the Constitutional Court releases HDZ, destroys all judgments, and at the same time loses judgments in international courts, there was no public debate. The question of why we lost the arbitration dispute and billions of dollars is not being discussed. There's a debate about this pile of paper, that's what's being discussed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27872	I would like to thank my dear colleague Pernar, and I would like to remind you of your misbehavior in the Croatian Parliament and please stay away from such behaviours in the future. Thank you very much. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Blaženko Boban, answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27873	Since pedagogical measures in the primary and secondary schools of Mr. Pernar probably didn't help my replica, so I'm giving up on her.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27874	I thank my esteemed colleague, Blazen Boban, for contributing to this debate. Next to the replica came the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27875	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, at the end of this debate today, you said what we knew at the very beginning, which is that the real problems in Croatian education are not solved. And what you mentioned is that students don't have a school meal that costs 60 or 70 kuna a month. If we were here today to discuss it all day and that, of course, everyone was involved, that they were present, I believe that we could somehow solve this problem. But here's what we've been discussing is whether it's necessary to license the director or not to do what's right if it's carried out it wouldn't bring any particular benefit. All children in Croatia, from first to last, would have a free meal to invest 400 million kuna a year. This is Erste Bank's annual profit, only one single bank in the Republic of Croatia. How much is a person sharing that profit? How many people do you share that 400 million kuna? And how many hundred thousand children would that amount be divided into if this country were willing to separate it? This country pours money out of the sleeves when it's necessary to build some arenas that are now rotting like a mockery of big cities. There's money for the Peljek Bridge which, frankly, may be translated twice in our lives, at least we who don't live there. He's got money to buy INA as soon as the arbitration goes down. Here are the Hungarians today said one billion and 900 million euros. It will be found immediately, a commission will be established. Why not establish a committee for hungry children? Let's make Prime Minister Plenkovic president of this committee. I would also like to participate, and I would like us to experience it during this term, that such problems are being solved in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27876	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27877	Yes, here I call on this Croatian Parliament to create an investigative committee on why children in schools are starving and why the state does not finance their meals. As well as my colleague Bunjac, I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic to lead the commission. But I'm afraid, Mr. Bunyan, that it won't happen after all? And you know why? So Prime Minister Plenkovic said yesterday what is the priority of his government -- the fight against the demagogue, the fight against the populists, the fight against us from the Living Wall. He threatened to force the entire government to break us down, suppress us, reduce the number of our MPs, keep our voice from being heard. Here's the dear lady and gentlemen of HDZ I see you're very agile and I'll show you now what a debate will look like without me. I will go to you nicely, I will grant you today the wish of Mr Plenkovic and more of my wisdom, that is, as you say, the anarchist is talking nonsense here, it will no longer be heard during this debate, and you will report nicely for the word, replicate yourself, and enjoy this radical kind of democracy where the prime minister threatens with political reckoning, by instrumentalising state institutions means the Ministry of Justice, the police and whatnot, the entire government rather than dealing with the problem of hungry children in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27878	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply to the replicas. I'm sorry he's leaving work, but we're moving on. Who's not here? Without him, you can. The following has appeared for an individual discussion by distinguished counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27879	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's hard to continue to discuss seriously after this discussion that discussed everything and at least what this law is talking about. First of all, the law should follow the Law on the Assessment of Legal Effects, which means that it should have been in public consultation and that all those interested should have time and say something about this bill. There are three articles, or four, that are quite short to allow people to measure their view of the bill. We have also been provided with an analysis of the public debate on 160 pages and a proposal for a law which does not contain this Article 2. Therefore, Article 126a. It's wiped out. It's in the bill of law that was held at a public hearing, it doesn't exist. There it stood to be prolonged, so the application of licensing for 1.1.2020. What has happened in these months or two since the public debate was concluded that the article of the law has changed and is now proposed to completely delete the licensing. Is it the fear of the ruling that they will not be able to entangle these 150 or 200 directors to whom the principal's internship is due this year, or is it a desire to complete licensing in Croatia to move away. There's one saying that all of us who may be a little older, who have watched TV shows so there's one Montenegrin series by the way in Montenegro there's been licensing for a long time, which Jackna says hasn't died yet, and when we don't know. So probably licensing with this law didn't die, but when we also don't know, it's probably buried for a while. Because if in the bill of law you gave yourself a four-year period to establish a license in Croatia within that four-year period, it would be interesting for the secretary of state to tell us what happened in those months and a half or two days after the debate was concluded that Article 2 was changed which is now very clearly saying that licensing is being lifted. You can tell how much you want it to stay an article, that it needs to be implemented and set up a licensing system. And when you don't have a deadline, you'll probably never establish it because to go back to what was going on before, so here I would go back far, far back to the past there in 1993, so 24 years ago, it was an obligation to take the principal's exam, then at that time and then took the principal's exam. Not only that, in 1993, a school for directors was introduced, which was shut down after two years with a statement by the HDZ minister who said what school would do to directors. The directors are appointed according to political will, and they are obliged to respond to those who have appointed them, and there is no need for them to be in school and to learn something. And that's what's happening now, we closed the circle back in 1994 when the school for directors was abolished, we're going back to having the directors set up for political resemblance. I will quote a statement by one of our very respected Professor Stancic, who said here I quote, "Employers are the only employees in school who have no specific knowledge". And that's true. Both teachers and educators and other school workers have specific skills, have pedagogical education, and the directors are the only ones who don't have it and that's what the promoter himself had to know. It is true that since 2008 we have not established a system, it is true, and we are all carrying part of the responsibility. There is now no more or less, but I think we should take a step forward, this government to make its goal very clear to the extent that the licensing system itself should be established in Croatia. And we in the opposition wouldn't say a word about it, they would withdraw their law and vote for this law. This way, we can't get the impression that we're continuing with the policy that is, and that's that in Croatia we're setting directors on political duty. In 2012 the system itself was launched and it is true as much as you from HDZ are trying to say that nothing was done, three key parts of the licensing were delivered, so a standard of occupation, a standard of qualification, and licensing models were delivered. You have a finished product. Is it not possible to set a time limit for this product to be implemented? But here, we've stopped the curative reform, we'll stop the licensing, we'll go back. It is clear that a conservative revolution in Croatia is something you can see, what you feel, and that is what we must see through this law. It stops progressively what will help make our schools better because the principals are not only the ones who hire, noting that directors are the ones who are responsible for the quality of the people they hire, that we are not talking about hiring brothers, uncles, nephews and all others. There's even so-called. A pillar of shame from primary and secondary schools, which instead of a technological surplus were employed by other teachers outside that technological surplus, which says that directors needed to be professionalised and it was the only dam against political influence, against nepotism, against employment and by party, and by family, and by neighbouring and that I don't know which other line. Because the professional director is the one who's been trained to do so, and in that way we'll avoid everything that's justified to us citizens, but also teachers who repeatedly complain that they can't get a job at school if you don't know the principal. The cleaning woman cannot be employed at school without the political will of a particular mayor or mayor, mayor and everything else. Therefore, HDZ is in power in most counties, therefore this is what you have inauguration and therefore you are doing this now so that you do not want to set up a licensing system in Croatia. Professionalisation of directors moves political influence and not only that but also leads schools to be better, to have schools managed according to the proper master, but on the other hand it also changes the role of the Governing Council of schools that would then play a completely different role than it does now because it is now under the influence of politics, we know it and it is no unknown in Croatia. So, I'm sorry that HDZ obviously gave in this month and a half of the day under the influence apparently inside the base because I say 200 directors are now on the re-election, so if you'd started licensing then probably some of them might not have been able to get the license, so I'm sorry that you didn't make one step that you did when you gave the law to the public debate, where you said that the licensing was delayed until 1.1.2021. Apparently, she said, "Jackna hasn't died yet, and when we don't know," we can say on this law, licensing didn't die, but when she does, we don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27880	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27881	You wonder if such a law is proposed that HDZ could arrest two hundred more people or that for another four years, it could be political personnel in schools when it comes to principals. I don't believe it because to accept that proposal we offer, set the deadline for the last day of the HDZ mandate, not the last, last day of the HDZ term. They could do it for the next four years. Therefore, that is not the reason. I think the reason is something else, one indifference at the HDZ Club that they didn't notice what Minister Barisic was planting on them because if they noticed it then they'd say so give Barisic so what's not enough of what you're doing, all the TVs, all the radios, all the newspapers deal with you, for days everyone's been writing about how you're a copyist. He can't do this in the morning without at least a dozen questions about you. So now you're still doing this to us, even that shame to delete the date by which the document should be brought that the directors must obtain the certificates. Well someone would tell Barisic enough is enough, so stop embarrassing us, so here four hours and how many hours we've been discussing, we've been discussing one stupid thing all day. You agree that the certificates are required and you will not determine that the last date of the certificate is the last day of the government's power. And I still expect the prime minister, so here's what I believe is the vice president of the Parliament, and I believe that he saw it and that he realized that he would call the prime minister and tell him to pull, say, call the deputy and tell him to withdraw that law so we don't be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27882	I thank the esteemed representative Stazic for this replica. Reply Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27883	Dear fellow Stazic, that Minister Barisic is a ballast to the government, a ballast to the parliamentary majority, and I think it would best be to do what an honorable man does, and it is to resign and release the government of that ballast that exists and that will last until the end of the term, but it is not my problem with the Minister Barisic, everyone will in a certain way endure that burden on the back but I worry about the system, I am concerned about the system of education and education on which he is headed because the system will suffer because it will not be able to manage the system and do those reforms in the system that should be done when you have such a burden on your back that, despite all attempts, you will obviously not be able to remove. So I think that the best move would be for Minister Barisic to resign and to have someone else's opportunity to introduce licensing, reform education, return curricula reform and move Croatia into an educational system that is examples of one European Union country, not to mention a Finnish model that should seek and change Croatian schools to get out of Croatian schools people who are able to immediately go to the labour market and work on the labour market and find a job and work. Unfortunately, our system does not do that, Minister Barisic, who is obviously a plagiarizer, will not at least plagiarise the Finnish system of education might be easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27884	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27885	Thank you. Vice President! Dear fellow Mrsic, I agree with you that we urgently need to resolve how our schools are managed because here is the debate that has been encouraged, so it has been looked at and triggered a debate between parents and teachers, and among teachers and directors, they report, send messages and expect us to get rid of the school management model as soon as possible. Everyone agrees that our schools should be led by a man who is respected above all by his collective, who has certain expertise and who should be licensed and should be defined as soon as possible because we cannot stop the further development of our education system, create equal conditions for education in all regions because you still have district schools where chalk is written on a regular board while in some schools there are both smart records and a lot of other technologies and teaching aids, while some of them are missing. But it should also be possible for that director, given that he is only the first among the equal in his collective to motivate his colleagues to transfer their knowledge and skills to those students who are our goal above all, to enable them to continue their professional training, to enable them to go to different seminars and to give them adequate pay. That by reducing the resources for education, probably those of our future licensed directors won't be able to. So here is an appeal to all of us that both in this law and in the next laws, and even in the budget, more resources are allocated to the education system, for science, because it is the only way we can achieve the goal of having high-quality educated generations that will be employed on the labour market. And also, I don’t think any of the children should be hungry because here’s one parent asks the question “If prisoners in prison have the right to a free meal why doesn’t every child have the right to a free meal at school?” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27886	I thank my esteemed colleague Davor Vlaovic for his replica. Reply Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27887	Thank you very much. My colleague Vlaović, I fully agree with this last finding, our students have and should have the right to a free meal with those who have more that they can participate then and those who do not have to then be completely free of meals at school, that is the government's thing whether the government has the means to do so, I believe that there is and if there is to buy cars there for this and on the other hand it will help and develop our village because we are a country that must be much stronger agriculturally than it is now. So we do two good things with it. But as far as licensing is concerned, directors should be professionals, as management is being taught. You have two or three categories of directors. One who is God-given directors because they have this ability, to operate, to know with people, to be able to run. You have another extreme that those who don't know what to do don't know how to run it. They're just not that kind of people. And then you have one great majority of directors who, if you give them the opportunity to learn and give them the tools to work with them, will be excellent directors as well as those who are given God to be directors. And that's what HDZ needs to do. We can't get the impression that this is only done so that political staff can be re-occupied and that directors can be hired again by similarity, and then it goes from the principal to hiring professors, teachers, cleaners, janitors and all, and none of that employment will go without the political approval of any mayor, mayor, mayor or mayor that I already know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27888	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for his reply to the replica. The next line came from a colleague named Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27889	You asked your colleague Miranda what happened in a month and a half that the government had so radically changed its position from that draft of the deadline that it would extend the license for 2021 until it completely gave up any deadline that could be read to give up the license. So when we look at public consultation with the interested public, it is clear, of the 140 proposals that have been received where even 129 unions, various school employees asked to redefine Article 75 to return to the correctional exams, nothing the Ministry nor the Government has responded to these 75% of the same proposals. But it's on one. One single proposal, which was accepted from the public debate, was the proposal of the president of the Croatian Catholic Society of Educational Workers, who in his own statement said: "The licence is by all means only one condition for the director, nothing is obtained with it." Furthermore, "It can be a pointless waste of time, resources, effort, maintenance of existing destructive relations, an undesirable situation in the school system that has been seriously collapsing under the pressure of the SDP in recent years, Jokic emptys the harmful CKR and pointless action." The only condition for the Ministry to listen to you, to appoint you Secretary of State as Alumic is that what you further spit on the entire curative reform. And what I'm wondering is, who manages the education system in the Republic of Croatia? Is there an education policy in Mark's square or from the Capitol? And is it possible that HDZ's peaceful kickings are watching Oak run education policy through the Ministry of Science and Education and wants children to make beech? Is it possible that HDZ allows and suffers this much damage because of them?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27890	I thank my dear colleague Sabina the Voice. Reply Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27891	Well, dear colleague Glasovac obviously has a form of conservative revolution that we see and sits there, one of the representatives of our fellow parliamentary representative who I expect to have a replica of him. It's clear, everyone's legitimate to do that. So it's a matter of conviction but it's a question of whether Croatian citizens want it or not, and you can't impose your opinion on most citizens. Yes, you have stopped the curricula reform and you want the same thing to happen with the licensing that exists on paper without ever being revived and never being applied in Croatia. What I would ask the Secretary of State if he were to address himself at the end of everything, to tell us very clearly what happened in those months and a half that they had changed Article 2 and sent him to the Parliament in this way, especially since there was no requirement in the public debate that this article was completely deleted or that it was perhaps the fear of Minister Barisic not to say that there was plagiarizing what the SDP had given in the 15.12 procedure, so there was no more plagiarism to assess whether the HDZ had written a different law under the pressure of the SDP. Just to be different, but it's in scientific work it's a good thing and in scientific papers you don't plagiarize things, you don't prescribe other people's things. But here it would have been good if you'd copied what we predicted, or if you'd stayed on what was in the public debate, which means that it remains 1.1.2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27892	I thank Mr. Miranda Mrsic for his reply. You've got nice escapades in this exhibit of yours and the answers where you get around the subject a little bit, but then come back. Here I'd just like to ask you not to go too far into extremes to stick to the subject. We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27893	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrsic, yes, what you said about actually effective license killing and about how wrong it is, we've actually already had a chance to hear today from fellow Stazic once, but I would remind you anyway. So we have the freshest example of how important this is. In a school in Sibenik, a principal banned an exhibition about Anna Frank called “The History of the Present. ” I apologize, I will remain within the framework of Article 232. The word of honor is a brief illustration, under the exception of that, he said: “It bothers him that fascists are shown better than antifascists and it turns out that they killed Jews, Roma and starved children.” This is one principal, who came out of the mouth of a school principal. So such a licensing process would enable us to see, among other things, whether people in this kind of sense are capable of acting on such important duties and working with our children in the end line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27894	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bojan Glavasevic. She says the folk is repeating her mother's knowledge. We've already heard it from a respected fellow Stazic, but here we are glad you've repeated it for Sibenik. ... Thank you very much. [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] These are your style locks. But let's let our distinguished colleague Miranda Mrsic respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27895	Thank you very much. Because if this director from Sibenik had been in the licensing system, regardless of the model one or two, then he would probably have been taught tolerance, he would have been taught Croatian history, regardless of political belief, and it would have been likely that the entire licensing system would not have occurred to him and that in such a way represented certain political views, it was just another proof that the directors were elected politically, the political force was clearly elected by the director no matter where and how, I'm not saying whether they are HDZ, HNS, SDP, but we all clearly have influence. But it is certain that what happened in Sibenik does not serve honor neither the director nor the city of Sibenik nor the Republic of Croatia because history cannot be changed, Anna Frank is one symbol of resistance, a symbol of something that should not and should not have happened and the other one that is related to Croatia is a Croatian history that you can interpret in one way or another, but the fact is that the partisans were anti-fascists and that the Ustashas were fascists. And that's something you can't change, so you just forbid it for as many years as you want. I'm saying, if this principal had been licensed, it wouldn't have happened because it wouldn't have occurred to him because it's something that's not part of school and school education, but politics, and it can work outside of school in its own party.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27896	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for his reply. Next to the replica, the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27897	Thank you very much. Here, I'll come back a little bit, Mrsic, he's been to partisans and Ustashas, fascists and anti-fascists, I'd go back to part of your presentation. You said that mostly the directors of their political people fall in love because they are politically and put up depending on the institution that they are. of school owners and that is a fact, and here I agree 100% with you, mostly here in my Split-Dalmatia County in which case HDZ is in power but this morning I apologized so I will repeat as the vice president said she was the mother of repetition. In the elementary school "Fra Pavlo Vucković" in Sinj, there were two candidates for directors, HDZ and SDP. And of course they chose HDZ's member because the county in Sinj owns it. In Split, however, he was the mayor of the SDP in power. That SDP that he lost, he became headmaster at the Split school while SDP was mayor, so he didn't come out, you didn't kick him out, he was still, he was right for you. So, I agree that it is fully entrenched, that the decentralised funds that go to the county and founders, to be used by whom it is sought and by the political key, but it is true that in your counties where you behave in the same way as in your ministry when you were certainly employed by employees, you are certainly employees, and those you hired from Sinja in your ministry, you must have hired them by the Holy Spirit rather than by membership card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27898	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the replica. Reply Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27899	Repitio est dog mother studiorum", it is but obvious that you took it literally so you looked up to your older brother in the HDZ coalition, so in Croatian waters you went to hire a godfather or I don't know which one of Mr. Petrov. So the worst thing is when they're talking to someone and giving someone away without looking behind them. She has a Chinese woman who says: “Do not throw stone at the neighbor’s house if it is yours. ” Well, Mr. Bull, I think we should do that when you're replicating it. I did not talk about who worked, when I was in my discussion that the directors were under political pressure and that the directors were in power regarding Split the director was elected to the competition and what the SDPs should be ashamed of if we choose someone in the competition who is a member of the SDP. If the competition is conducted in order and there's no reason not to, and we don't mind choosing someone that's HDZ. But again, we're back to it now, which is why we need licensing, which is why we need to have this system that I hope you won't raise your hand for this law but that you will raise your hand for the law that we have proposed, which means that the licensing is introduced as soon as possible in Croatia to prevent these excesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27900	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for his reply. And we have the last line, distinguished colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27901	Dear, dear fellow Mrsic, let me tell you first at the beginning of the next one. After the entry into force of these transitional and completed provisions on 1 January 2017, no director in Croatia has a license, in fact no one has the conditions to work, so that simply because it has already been passed, it can only be actually brought to what we are doing to change this article of this law. So these are some basic things you need to know. I'm very glad that you SDP notice that we are in the Oak, which means that we are in the other opposite part of the political spectrum that we are actually imploding, the further we are from you than we prefer. You were talking about the conservative revolution. Well, maybe it's a counter-revolution because we've had a liberal revolution for 20 years, so it was logical that a counter-revolution would happen eventually. And when we talk about your colleague's opinion, Glasovac has greatly disturbed the opposite of the opinion of a Croatian Catholic society of educators and is an immediate problem. It's you who swear on liberalism, and you don't really respect other people's opinions, and on the other hand, other conservatives who, too, resent being conservatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27902	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic for his replica. The answer is for a dear colleague of the Voice, or are you going to be Mr. Mirsic?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27903	I'll do it because that's what the Rules of Procedure is like.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27904	Okay. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27905	Although it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because it's a commentary of someone else's discussion, you could have, a replica of someone else, expected replica. So I think that the HDZ colleagues here should be concerned because you said that 20 years in Croatia is the work of a liberal revolution if I understand it well? Well, obviously, I don't know what order you're in Croatia for, so do you want socialism back or do you want something else to go back to? I don't quite understand your finding, so it might be convenient to elaborate it in some kind of discussion. Of course, the problem with the government's unhappiness and the government that was before he was Minister Sustar. So he's as sassy as I know he is. So the minister who is now, obviously didn't do their job, because if they were doing their job, then this amendment to the law would have been before. As I noted in the public debate was the date of the second and that is the matter and the dissatisfaction of the Government which both before and now did not bother to have these three articles of the law in the Assembly come as soon as possible or it is quite an urgency to do the licensing and that the only license that directors need is the HDZ and Mosta party card.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27906	Thank you, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, for your reply. They say the carpenter's a lizard, not a roach, so here's how they know that Minister Shustar isn't a carpenter even though his name is so named, and the carpenter's a lizard. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debates. The individual debate was attended by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27907	Thank you very much. Here's what we're talking about... Director. [[You don't understand.]] I see that my predecessor waved about letting go of all political options except for his in which he was employed during the ministry, as well as for the director of the Holy Spirit. So I could say from an example, I personally have a list of independents in Sinj. My councilman doesn't work, and there's a professor who's 40. So I'll be back on the subject a little bit. The problem, Mr. Secretary, is respected by the decentralised resources that go to the founders. That's the key problem of the story. The problem is that these decentralised funds when they come to the county, which is an example of the Split-Dalmatia County is exclusively shared by the political key directors... Sets the HDZ, in the town of Split, the SDP, or in other SDP counties, but I am now talking about my counties. [[You don't understand.]] So, of course, I'm sorry that there are no colleagues Boban that we have two, three, four schools, five schools in Solin, while in the hinterland of Cetina and other parts, the Imot area and other areas where there are no mayors and mayors from that political option, of course, the directors in that case, and these mayors are struggling to get certain benefits. to get an equal distribution of those funds. So certain cities have founding rights, and some don't. So what are the criteria? How is it possible that all of them by their rules, and the ones on the right and on the left, have not so far changed the rules on transportation, for example. the student. The elementary school kids don't have the right to transport for up to three kilometers. It is easier to organize it much in Zagreb because it is a millionth city and it is free of charge. However, in areas where there is no footholds, where there is no lighting and within three kilometers where the forest is, where parents have no money is this problem huge. These are undeveloped areas that my Split-Dalmatia County forgot, so of course the Ministry forgot. Free textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27908	Excuse me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27909	How possible that in the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27910	Buddy Bull, just a little bit. I'd like to ask you distinguished colleagues to allow my colleague Bula to continue the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27911	How can we have free textbooks in the City of Zagreb in certain areas? So we have an example in my area where areas of hill-mounted areas where people have no conditions or jobs, where parents have a hard time living, these children have no organised transportation, while in Zagreb we have free textbooks, we have in certain schools which is good and positive we have food and food. Some kind of baby-secured marend, while we don't have any in those parts. For what? Because everything is centralized. So I would ask you to think very carefully about this by regionally, undeveloped areas that cannot be reached that is Lika, Gorski Kotar where it is simply unorganized and the transport system to help these regions and to help them with that rule by the development index. That's what you have to do. And directors named under the applicable law are hiring on school boards and appointing people, which are founders of counties and cities. And so they hire all the founding either in the SDP County, or in the county where the HDZ is in power. These are facts and it's very easy to verify. We can freely check in my county who the principals are, everyone who has, who's in power, in which case HDZ. That's what SDP tried to set up an office, decentralisation state administration offices around the county. Well, let's just say, in Sinj my city, we have 29 employees in the Office of State Administration. People literally don't know what they're doing. In Sinj City, employees. Of course, they named their "Holy Spirit" Mr. Velja Radojković was then named "The Spirit of the World" and not on the party card most likely because of the good qualifications, because of the good effects, but the fact that you devote, I ask you once again, in undeveloped areas where children have no halls, have no conditions where I can play and agree with the work when we talk about sports halls that have been built here, the arenas for handballs that are burdened by Croatian society and today a billion kuna at the level of the year, to devote yourself to it. I'm sorry he's not the minister here to point out these problems. And I would like you to visit those parts of the Dalmatian hinterland, like, the Gorski Kotar and Slavonia, which is increasingly empty and unfortunately more schools we have which are empty, regional schools where there were once many children, where there was a children's cry and that's one of the reasons why young people don't start their families but either come to Zagreb and bigger centres or go to third countries. And as for the director, it would certainly be good for them to be professionalised and to be systematically introduced, but this is a priority that I said first and this way, as is now the functioning of employment i.e.. The appointment of school boards where we have three founders, where we have a parent representative, employee representatives is simply political imposition and a political directive towards directors who simply are not obedient, if they are not employed in this way, will simply be replaced and that is the fact, and that is why we will all agree here, either on the left or on the right. These are facts and there is a need to make sure that it no longer happens, in which way it is professionalized. How many deadlines should be introduced, to be professionalized, in which way, I don't know how to check who doesn't have a card, who's going to prescribe the criteria in which way we should discuss it. But please, on behalf of these people, I would like to point out once again that you pay attention to these areas where schools are closed and where villages and hearths fail and because children cannot be educated and do not have the same conditions that the Constitution guarantees as in Zagreb, which is positive and I am glad that it is in Zagreb, but I am saddened that these ends are leaving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27912	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull, for the debate. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27913	Thank you. Vice President of the Parliament! Comrade Bulj, I will say as I told the deans, the school principals that they should be elected, that teachers or teachers should choose, those who work in those schools. But that's not what I'm gonna say right now. Gentlemen, why we don't have halls, why we don't have good schools, why our children are hungry. It's not a question that we're discussing today for 8 to 10 hours and we're probably not going to change anything, it's going to stay the same as it was. But why don't we have it? Well, we don't have anyone in this country paying taxes and liabilities and someone paying. I would never have entered this House as a businessman if I had remained in debt to this country. However, people here who came from a closer family had 10 million taxes unpaid to the state and moral disciplines held us and the Croatian people here in this House. I'm asking you gentlemen now how long we're going to spread morality from ourselves and we haven't begun morality. These people at the entrance here are frozen literally, no one could put a heat curtain on them for 20 years, they spend more electricity than they should and what people freeze I see every day. We know how to talk and we're not going to go by ourselves. Gentlemen, the problem is with us, it's not a problem that we've been talking all day and we're not going to solve anything. We'll go home, the people saw us, they said we didn't solve anything. I see this as a businessman as a man who worked every 40 years every day, stood up and worked fairly for this country and paid for everything, please check me out. I'm not ashamed of anyone here or in the Croatian state, but I'm ashamed to listen to this when I see the names of professors, doctors, minor carpenters tell him it's not him, it's plagiarism. Everyone has the right to say there's a thief in this country even though there's no information about it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27914	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27915	My colleague Misic, the subject of this debate really wasn't former Minister Mrsic's wife, but the amount of 10 million you mentioned if the truth is a huge amount with which a lot of investment in school could be made, but I especially respect you as an entrepreneur and indeed entrepreneurship, mainly in undeveloped areas, is banked and this is one of the conditions for which people in the economy like you are not, have no incentives in these areas and should certainly invest as much in these areas as possible. But I agree with you completely, really, when we look at these counties, and they let the administrations that are decentralised I don't know what they're doing to keep these people from coming to work, not to waste their electricity, not to spend their shoes, transporting cars would certainly be enough money for free meals in these areas of children and for the transport of students free of charge, there would certainly be enough resources. So are the county. In the counties, those who lose elections at local level and similar similar to those who become or are appointed to companies, in the county, so they are unnecessary things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27916	I thank you for your response to my distinguished colleague, Bull. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27917	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulju, I have three brief remarks. The first is actually similar to what your colleague, the Voicer who is not here, said the same thing this morning when you mentioned - and there's a colleague of the Voice - when you mentioned textbooks and diets, which is that many of these problems are not really being regulated by what we're talking about today, but are mainly in the jurisdiction of local or regional self-government. But you're absolutely right when you point out that there are some cities like this. Zagreb has so much that in the election time other cities such as Petrinja just happen to have coalition partners, otherwise it is not here, and sits with us, paying for those books as well. And it needs to be changed. And about that, in fact, and for yours, the continuation of your exposure you occasionally forget that the Bridge is part of this government. It was part of the past. So all the problems you're perceiving can be solved in a conversation with a minister who is ultimately your choice. And when you talk about employment, it's not SDP's problem. It just doesn't exist, it's about our exception, not the rule, but the problem is HDZ. But when you talk about it, I have to admit that sometimes it sounds more like envy to me than it does to highlight the problem. But here's the thing, if God gives a colleague of the Grmoy a chance to become mayor one day, then I guess we'll be able to sort it out somehow. Here, I was illustrating. This is the last of my observations was in a bit of a cynical tone. Of course I don't think these things should be dealt with that way. Just an honest colleague, Bulj, and only bravely in conflicting opinion with your coalition partners. Just brave.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27918	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bojana Glavasevic, for the replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27919	Thank you very much for asking my colleague Glavasevic and those observations. But let me tell you a little bit. So as for the free textbooks themselves who donate certain cities to the pre-election campaign, it is an indicator that the system is messy and certainly better introduced there he was in his constituency, his friend Mr. Dumbovic could explain it better, or Nikola because he was his opponent in the area. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not addicted. Yes, of course. I just said that really in the county and state offices of the administration, we have a number of people who don't know what they're doing. Well, they ain't got no business, man. Maybe people are good enough to redistribute them. The fact in Sinj in one city 29 employees of the Office of State Administration, and the Office of State Administration was established and pro pro proposed to deconcentrate the late Racan Government at the time. Power in the field. Well, I said, for example. ... It is certainly appointed by the Holy Spirit, not by membership card for the head of the Office of State Administration of Split-Dalmatia County and so on. [[You don't understand.]] Surely these are unnecessary functions. I'm not saying that there are no high-quality people who need to be rerouted to other places, and many should really stay at home and be less cost and in terms of heating, transportation,... and other expenses. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27920	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Next to the replica, an esteemed colleague, Ante Sanader, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, you say the Split-Dalmatia County is divided by a political key. It is true that the Split-Dalmatia County has one big problem really for which I do not know how it will be solved, which is that of 55 cities and municipalities 39 is HDZ in power. It's really one big political probably problem and maybe that's the problem when you think, when you say it's divided by a political key. I am responsible for saying that in the Split-Dalmatia County it is not divided by political key. And I'll make the arguments, and you give the counterarguments. So the investment whenever we speak here is the topic of education, so the investment was on Solta and the halls and schools, and on Komiza, in Hvar and in Supetar, in Bol and in Šedanovac, and in Muć, in Tucepi, in Makarska, and in Podgorica. So, all those cities and municipalities where the HDZ is not in power were evenly represented, and you can get information about this in Split-Dalmatia County for every year as much as invested in any city, and in which municipality when it comes to this or anything else. What you're talking about is that some of them have free textbooks. So you should ask yourself that Zagreb has 8 billion budgets and Split-Dalmatia County 180 million. There's a problem and there's us cut off. You can talk about it, not about sharing political similarities in Split-Dalmatia County. School boards, obviously you don't know the situation because you know how to choose school boards. Three selections of chambers, one chosen by parents, and three chosen by the founder. So the majority owner is not the founder. And what kind of political resemblance is that? So you underestimate the professor that they're fools ordered by some political party. Well most of all, they choose their representatives. Parents also choose their representatives. But I'm saying, the problem is that 39 towns and municipalities of the HDZ, so you might see that the unfortunate population of the HDZ is committed, so they choose even some parent who is HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27922	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader for this replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27923	As a longtime mayor, you are familiar with the fact that the territory of Cetinska krajina is here I am talking about my end and on schooling, and home to health, and the abolition of maternity care, and the attempt to abolish the stationary – if I hadn't engaged as an activist today, there would be no sonic alkars and children born in Sinj – because of this you know these events you were mayor. You didn't have the courage then to resist your minister, Mr. Milinović, who is still under the pressure of the people and the activists still left the birthplace and the Alkars are still born in Sinj, unfortunately in a much smaller number than before because people leave these parts after she forgot the county of Sinj and Cetinski end of most, except somewhere, you might see where the halls were built, how much they were financed, which the municipalities, look at... And look at my city, look at it and come to dialysis, look at the schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a school in Sinj for example, so I got nothing against people, maybe they're the best people, not one of them is the director without your party's membership card. I'm not mad at that. Also, you must know that in the county all the mayors who lost the election, who were in power where they went. Shall we pick it up? I won't, I won't do it for a reason, so here's the public fire department, we can also talk about it, you're like the fireman of our county, meaning the decentralised assets of 302 million kuna, the largest county of Split-Dalmatia Fireman and Split-Dalmatia County, Mr. Sanader, just two public fire departments, and thank God after a hard fight and the public fire department of Sinj because the Cetina region, but you've braked it, I'm sorry, but here we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27924	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. I would really ask you to stick to the topic discussed today and leave the representation of certain parties at local or regional level for other topics. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Darko Paric reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27925	Thank you. Mr. Vice President! Comrade Bulj, when it comes to demagogy in this House, you absolutely deserve every respect that can be given to man in this area. You have explained all the problems wonderfully, you have made the difference between schooling in Dalmatia Zagora, Split, Zagreb and Slavonia, you have wonderfully listed the causes of problems from municipalities, cities, municipalities, local self-government, administration, ministries and all, you have even asked the Secretary of State to solve all this together to help with the new law and I don't know what to do. And it would be wonderful if you were sitting here next to me in the section of the Assembly where the opposition is, if you sat down I'd say Miro well said this, it's wonderful. However, as it has already been said several times that repeating the mother of knowledge, to repeat this is the second government in which you are the government, this is the second government where you are able to correct such things. I assure you that this government will one day end, then some other Miro Bulj will come and ask you what you've done, sit down two governments already, say what you need to say and you haven't done anything. I would really ask you to do your speeches in the future that you are very well aware that you are part of the government and that all those problems ahead of us can be solved and you can stick to it. And he would also ask you, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, that colleagues be delivered to Bulju on the bench of the list of us sitting in the Parliament, and that it is clearly indicated by the color of where the government is and where the opposition is so that he knows that he is sitting where the government is and that you can prepare his speech in the future. And you can't sit on the side of the Parliament that's the government and give a speech like you're an opposition, it's at least interesting, not to say which harder word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27926	I thank Mr. Parisic for this field lecture to Mr. Bull. I hope he doesn't charge you for this lecture. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27927	Thank you very much for your compliments and compliments. Yes, that's why Croatian society is in this state what you want to color who is the opposition and who is the power of Croatian parliamentary representatives because when you're in power then you're doing the click, you're saying what belongs to the authorities. I'm a parliamentary representative who didn't vote for the budget, do you understand? You'll never have the courage to be in power. Here, I guarantee you, you won't have the courage. You may be able to do that in Split when a strong figure is removed and you are appointed president, Commissioner, I voted again. But once again I thank you for all the praises and indeed this thinking has brought Croatian society here where it is. We are parliamentary representatives of our voters who gave us the legitimacy to agree and disagree whether the SDP secretary, HDZ, is with the opposition, is with the government. It's mine to ask and demand and so it will be in the future and you will not teach me how to behave because you have no right to do so. And you draw red, blue, green, yellow. I'm responsible for those voters down there, and I'm not afraid of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27928	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Damir Tomic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27929	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, you told your colleague now, Mr. Paris, that when you're in power, you won't be working on a wedge, but it's really not the point, you've re-mixed the pots and what your colleague said you've turned to your advantage. No one said that you should not speak or agree with the opinion of the ruling HDZ, but your colleague wanted to remind you that you are part of the government and that it is not the point of the story that you agree or disagree here but to take what you need to do to change things for the better. All those things you pointed out to us as an opposition when we were government or HDZ when he was power and now he's power. But that's not why I answered, but I wanted to say something that was constructive in your part of the debate, and it was a small impact of local self-government and non-initiative municipalities and cities that had no influence in the formal legal sense of school management. There's one thing I'd like to suggest to you, and while you're in power, you might be able to get through it. Let the local self-government unit have a representative on the school board, one representative. Of course, it must change the entire structure of the school board but thus not only will the units of local self-government get influence but will receive responsibility. I'll give you an example. You said well that by entering the school the policy created a series of problems, that's true. In particular, I will tell you an example of Osijek-Baranja County and the functioning of a party that slowly disappears from the political scene of Slavonia precisely because you could not get any job at school in Osijek-Baranja County in the last five, six, seven years without being a member of the HDSSB. You have a huge example of both cleaning women and professors, and secretaries from Osijek to other cities working as if other cities didn't have employees in the sector. In particular, the example of Giakov. Djakovo is a city of 30,000 inhabitants and has no influence on education. Our mayor doesn't even want that influence. This way we'll force him to do something for those schools in his area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27930	I thank my esteemed colleague, Tomic, for the replica. Dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27931	Thank you. At first you said again you warned who was in power and who wasn't. But this last part of where you were constructive would really agree that local self-government representatives should also be on the school board and for responsibility because many will run away from responsibility. He says - I raise my hands - so the state does not care. In your case, the HDSSB, in the second county, is SDP, HDZ, or tomorrow Bridge is irrelevant. And local self-government has no concern or concern whatsoever, really this is one of the good proposals, and in this way mayors and elected authorities at local level would be forced to be responsible whether or not they want to, and of course it should be their obligation. And in this way, we would certainly have an obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27932	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Arsen Bauk, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27933	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to answer two quotes from my colleague Mira Bulja, although I think he's a little off the subject, so now I'm going to be in danger of making an analogous pass. So, the first thing you said was that you mentioned the head of the Office or acting head of state administration's office in Split-Dalmatia County that he was a member of the SDP and that's exactly what you said. But you didn't say a sentence behind that, which is that during the HDZ government he was the deputy head of the state administration's office and that in 2012, the head of state retired and that the deputy came to her place. So that would change the context of what you said. But here's an example of you two sitting next to a colleague of Grmoy and he certainly knows that the head of the Office in Dubrovnik-Neretva County remained the same as he was during the last HDZ government. Mrs. Strenja-Linić may know that after she remained the same and the chair when she retired to her place, a deputy or assistant state administration's office arrived and I counted there that I am now not listing, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight somewhere around 10 counties in which, therefore, at the heads of the office, state administration remained either old officials or state officials who were high-ranking during the previous government then HDZ in the Offices of State Administration. So it was the official venues in which the competitions were held. Some came from new ones, some from old ones, some from members of the SDP who did not pass. Personally, I was against getting them through because they weren't good on the test, and they were better at some non-partisan. And the number of employees in the state administration's offices during our government's term has been reduced by about 10.15%. So, in 4 years somewhere by 300, then in this year, at least 70 could be reduced in total, and I'm just curious about the result you'd get when you'd ask a representative question. But I don't think so, but here's just for the record to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27934	Thank you very much to my esteemed colleague, Bauk, for the replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27935	I was talking to my colleague Bauk about the moment the office was founded. when they were appointed for the first time to do so as to deconcentrate power because, in most cases, it was during the late Racan Government that most of the counties were at that point in power of the HDZ and it was some kind of illogical establishment of these offices. But because of political control in the field, political options were made. So today I repeat again you know the opportunities below that we will have, and I will repeat to you 29 employees of the state administration office in the City of Sinj without the city administration and without the county administration to what number has gone up. It's a problem, and of course with the appointments after a little bit of each other, a little bit of the other as well as in the ministries, you didn't say anything new. And as for appointments and school boards and this, of course, how where the political option exists in the Split-Dalmatia County is appointed to all school boards, so in the Primorje-Gorski SDP and so will unfortunately remain. So it's not a good system and it's not a good principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27936	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. I would really ask you distinguished colleagues and colleagues who have yet to apply for the replica to stick to the topic of debate and not to go into some other spheres and interpret powers, the choice of state administration, the state administration's office and also the one who discussed Mr. Bulj to also stick to the subject. We're moving on. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27937	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, I've come to you for this remark from a colleague of yours, Radojkovic. He was named three times by the government now that works and she's previous. So he got twice the extension half year and now he's got a third time. I don't know you in your discussions quite often have, equating the SDPs and HDZs. Here's what you were talking about today about appointments related to who's where in power. So are the directors of this political option, you said about Split and the county. Please tell us by what time do you give yourself the time to correct this injustice in Croatia so we don't listen to this for another ten years? If you happen to get another term, then how long will you talk? When is this deadline that you're going to be so nice to talk about here these SDPs are bad there, the HDZs are bad there? When you're gonna make it right, that's what the citizens are interested in. And if you don't correct it. Now you're telling me here's what I'm gonna do next year's Gordane, what's gonna happen next? Are you going to keep talking or will you finally stop talking about it? So we're interested in you specifically because you have to understand, you have a certain responsibility. You're acting here not as an opposition, but even more than an opposition. As an opposition to all opposition, and basically you have a responsibility and as you said on the click you are every Friday. I always see the green on the Bull when you click, except here and there a little toy on white. But the click of Mr. Bulja is usually a click of Mr. Bull on the green. But he also knows white, and I don't know if it's because of Hajduk, as Glavasevic says or because of other things, but you click exactly how HDZ would want you to click. Here, let us know that we know How long will that take? [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27938	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. Luckily, we don't have yellow buttons. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27939	Gordan's caught too much... I'll answer you to this first part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, when you mention the name of the head of the state administration's office I was talking about the timing of the appointment but I spoke critically in the county as well. And just then a surplus was created, I repeat, extra employees today in Sinj small town, you were in Sinj, 29 employees we have and the appointment was how. And I take no responsibility, nor do I vote for green, nor yellow, but I vote for conscience. I didn't vote on the key document. It's not my pride, nor my minus, simply because I have the reasons and the reasons that I explained, that's the first thing. Secondly, even in tax reform, I didn't vote in favour of the law laid down, in key documents, and that's my right. And you can't do that. I know you're the best minister, and that's what I've said at the assessment of me and Mr. Grumoja from the 1990s, and that you as a minister have a huge experience and that you can really judge when someone votes when it's red, when it's white, but you really can't condition someone how they vote and nobody like you can be on the click by now. And I'll give you an example. Here, I would never vote for the biggest robbery, it's a pre-war deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27940	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. The next line came from a distinguished colleague of the goddess Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27941	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament! Dear colleague Bulj, I'm going to have to do a little bit of political work because in fact your whole debate has come down in this way, about this political humanization of everything you're saying. I come from the county where HNS is in power but would completely agree with everything that my colleague Sanader said, which is influenced by the founder, in which way the director is elected, in which way he is employed. If that were true in the political line, then among her colleagues and colleagues from the HNS, she would not have so many professors who are also 40 years old and have not found employment. I responsibly claim that the directors in this way are fine with how they choose and that the school board is drawn up in a way that has three from school and employees one of the parents' representatives and that three from the founders, which is usually true, there I agree with you. If he's in power of the SDP he'll as founder have the most trust in his, HDZ in his, us in his. However, there is no decisive influence here and I am responsible for that, and I also say that because I know about us in Varazdin County when we went to school construction, a consensus has been reached and of 28 units of local self-government only three have no one-way teaching regardless of which options. We in the county have a head of HDZ, the excellent head of Mr. Hudjek who knows the matter, and it doesn't matter what is in HDZ and who is in power. We have free textbooks but not in a way that only some units of local self-government have all of them, but not every year they buy but are given, they leave them for each other with minimal funds. And I claim that only by agreement but not by political line, that I disagree with you, and that this, forgive just one more sentence, given that licensing, I think it will help all of us to improve and make everyone better and compete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27942	I thank my esteemed colleague, Christmas, at least for the replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27943	Thank you very much. My colleague, I would not agree if I had said something populist, I said the problems of my end which is my right as well as your right to point out and it is not nice to have free textbooks like in Zagreb and other developed environments without the state in undeveloped areas making it possible, that's what I was talking about. As far as the principal is concerned, I really can't say they're not many competent people, but politics has made a lot of decisions. But many are competent. As for how to check it out. So you do this in the last five schools about directors, in other companies, you do an audit of employment and you see what party cards are, I think it's very simple, but you don't have to do it for people. But the fact is, I don't want to determine, but I know how the system works. I know in my county, in my city, in the state administration downstairs, I know how it works and how you can get a job. And I have an independent list in Sinj, and I also have a man who's over 40 years old, he's a professor, and he's not working, and I have a sister who's been traveling to Knin since 2007 to work 70 kilometers a day, and it didn't occur to me now that I'm moving something here and I could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27944	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Ivan Šipic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27945	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I have caught two as well as my colleagues but I will not enter any broader political debates, and what has already been repeated many times today, you two have pointed out, mentioned in your section, which is the transport of children and that children do not have textbooks and many other things. I would like to tell the truth that it is not necessary to generalise the i.e. It is not good to generalise that there are still roles such as the role of local self-government, cities and municipalities. Therefore, if we are talking about the transport of children then we should know that the state is co-financed or funded by 70% and the rest is concerned with both the county and the city, and we will say that in the Cetina area as well as in other cities and municipalities throughout the Beautiful of our many cities and municipalities according to its programme, the social programme that is being brought through the budgets is taking care of its children and their transport and co-financing, here I will say that in us and these cities in the Chetin area except for Sinj from which you come, and we are neighbours know very well that Sinj has invested a little less in that part, but these other cities and municipalities, here I will say my example and I would not agree that we bought books before the election. Here, we bought a million kuna textbook with a budget of 13 million kuna, bought it after the election. So I wouldn't agree with that, they have other examples. Also every year we buy children an update of textbooks because we know what the situation is and you know very well that we are from that area, what is the situation. Therefore, it would be good if our exposure and the pawnage were more constructive and in this point of the agenda, then we wouldn't be able to choose the director to spend so much time and in one way we tire ourselves and especially the people watching us. Therefore, here for the sake of truth it should be said that it is wrong to generalise but that all together should be fixed and much more invested would be possible and we can agree there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27946	I thank my esteemed colleague Šipić for this replica and for his free EPP. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27947	Comrade Šipić, that we are from neighboring cities in the Cetin area only you may live in the other area. You are the mayor, but the fact is, you and I will go to Velvo, we'll go to Vitelić, we'll go to those parts, and you'll see, in Tijarc, where my mother is from, and we'll go to these parts, and you'll see that what you're saying is not true, that there are no children. You don't need to organize any more transportation, there are two, three kids. And if it's normal for you to have free textbooks in Zagreb, because if you give down a million kunas from that poor woman who singles out, I don't know how but you have certain benefits like the Trile for water resources and so on. And that's good for you? I expected you to say that, these are undeveloped areas where people move from. Do you know that every year in your town of Trill, where you are the mayor of fewer children? Well, your schools are closing, and they have free meals for your children traveling from remote parts. Do they have secure free meals? They don't have free-secured meals. The villages of Mayor Trilla are dying for you, raise your voice for Sinj, the Cetinan end and for your Trill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27948	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Zhagar, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27949	Thank you. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Dear colleague Bulj, you have indeed opened a very important topic in your debate, at the end of the debate. First of all, I agree with you it would have been much better if he had been here with us today, because we agree that we should not give up the director's license, that's what you said. On the other hand, I've said it many times, and I say again, I'm going to vote for this to be delayed. And why is that? Because I don't even know what's going on and that's the key question. We don't know what kind of licensing procedure that's gonna be. Will he be a permanent improvement and then undergo a certain examination, or will he be a specialist study or a college that we will conduct?- I'm sorry. According to the example of some countries, Slovenia has a national school for directors, Austria Academy for Leaders, Italy exam for directors in front of the state commission, Malta graduate study of school management, Sweden laying down a special college at university level, Lithuania proven competences in management and management. We don't really know who's going to do it right now, whether it's going to be an agency, whether it's going to be the National Centre for External Evaluation, whether it's going to be the Academy of Teacherry, who's going to actually carry out this procedure and in what way. If they knew that, we'd all be much clearer. And what I'm interested in here is, the Secretary of State will have the opportunity to say in the closing statement, if it's been discussed with the union because it's also the subject of collective bargaining because it's again, regardless, it's about directors, it's about some kind of work rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27950	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for the replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27951	Comrade Sagar, you have come from education to the constituency benches, i.e. You were the mayor. Everything you've said has no reason not to believe that you don't even know what's going to be voted on at this point and what's changing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27952	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. And the last replica of the distinguished colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27953	Thank you, Vice President. Since part of my colleague Bulja's debate I wanted to replicate is already being discussed so that we don't repeat ourselves by giving up on the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27954	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesni Bedekovic, for this contribution. With this, we've exhausted everyone we've reported for discussion. Does the motionary's representative want to give the secretary of state final? No, I don't. Does the representative of the SDP proposer want to give it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Secretary of State Hrvoje Slezak for the opening arguments. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met. With this, we've exhausted all the points for today. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the point – MIP's report Mandate-Immunity Commission. The vote on the debated points will be held at 12 o'clock. Once again, I thank everyone for the debate. I want a nice rest of the day. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted at 18.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27955	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 74. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HNS and HSU Representatives' Club. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Mr. Hrvoje Schlezak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27956	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. Since a system of licensing of school directors has not yet been established in the Republic of Croatia and no person in the Republic of Croatia has been able to obtain a licence for a director by applying the provisions of Article 126a of the Law on Training and Education in primary and secondary schools since 1 January 2017, no person in the Republic of Croatia has met the requirements of the school director. The proposed amendment, which provides for the retention of Article 126a, would block the system of education and education because no person in the future could be elected principal of the school institution. For this reason, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27957	Thank you. Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27958	We will, of course, ask for a vote on this amendment. Yesterday's debate was not only on this side of the HNS club from the SDP club but also other clubs that participated in this debate it was quite clear that we all want to raise standards in primary and secondary education and that licensing as a specific goal that we should achieve within and the objectives set by the Education Strategy in Croatia is something that we want to meet and that we need to move on. Since a certain job has been done for licensing, we believe that this is something that must remain in the law and therefore we suggest that you do not delete it from the law. And this situation is being resolved regarding the application of the licensing itself, we resolve the second amendment that we have put into transitional provisions, which means that we are giving the government the possibility for the ministry to carry out the licensing within two years and to initiate it in the way that was already provided for by law. I really don't see anything controversial about it, and nothing would have happened spectacularly if you had accepted something like that, but you would certainly have fulfilled what we promised citizens by adopting the Education Strategy in 2014. And we have to say that we do not know and that we do not know what is behind the fact that this provision is deleted in law. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27959	Thank you. I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote are they in order for the above-mentioned amendment that the Government does not accept to be adopted? The vote is over. That amendment did not obtain a sufficient majority to be included in the final draft law. Amendment number 2. Mr Hrvoje Šlezak State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education by the HNS Club on Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27960	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment proposing to extend the period of entry into force of the provisions of Article 126a of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools should be rejected for the reason that it is not technically possible to accept the prolonging of the moment of entry into force of the provision already entered into force on 1 January 2017. For this reason, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27961	Thank you. Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27962	Of course, it makes no sense to ask for the adoption of this amendment, given that it was rejected first, so it would be a very strange situation if they eventually accepted that amendment so that I would not ask for a vote on this amendment. However, there is indeed this excuse under which you reject the amendment at all, and that is that it is not technically harmonised. So you have changed in the transitional provisions exactly that provision, meaning the article to take effect immediately on what we have added to the amendment we have proposed to determine in the transitional provisions that this article applies with a delay. I must once again express my concerns at this point that the Ministry of Education is breaking standards, but perhaps it's not quite strange, given that standards, high standards in the ministry, starting with the minister and beyond, are not something we could raise ourselves with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27963	Thank you. Since the proposer has withdrawn the amendment, I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in High and High School. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes of 84 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 34 votes against we passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we continue with the work of the plenary session. Point one is: 5. Final draft law amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 74. Since the government is the same as the opposition put forward the same bill, I would suggest we go to a united debate if you agree. Thank you. The material was delivered to you in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that this legislative proposal should also be discussed by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Hrvoje Šlezak State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27965	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The legislative framework for the development of a system of education and education is based on the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools adopted in 2008, as well as the implementing rules resulting from the law. Since 2008, the law has been amended and complemented several times, but these changes and additions have not solved all the observed shortcomings specific to the system of education and education. The law stipulates that, in order to meet the specific needs of students with developmental difficulties, the school institution may, on a proposal from the founder, and with the agreement of the education ministry in the educational process, include assistants in the teaching process or professional communication intermediaries who are not independent holders of educational or teaching activities, and that the minister responsible for education rules prescribes ways to involve and carry out the activities of assistants in the follow-up and professional communications intermediaries, and the conditions that they must meet. However, when implementing that law, there was a need to carry out a procedure to determine whether the student was entitled to support the assistant in continuing or professional communications intermediaries. There has also been a need to prescribe the mode and content of training of assistants in teaching or professional communications intermediaries. Therefore, by this amendment and by supplementing the law, it proposes to create a legal basis for the adoption of a regulation that will regulate those substances and thus enable students with developmental difficulties to be made more accessible to education and education, and better to achieve learning outcomes. Furthermore, the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools adopted in 2008 introduced a licence to work in a school institution as a public document to demonstrate the necessary levels of general and professional competences of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors. The same law prescribes the obligation to adopt rules governing the programme, procedure and way of obtaining a licence for the work of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors, and the rights and duties arising from licensing. Although the obligation to adopt a regulation governing the licensing of directors has been in place since 2008, the licensing procedure has not been initiated so far, and therefore, since 2011, the entry into force of the provision which provides for the director's licence as one of the conditions for the director's work has been delayed. Thus, the 2008 law stipulates that licensing should enter into force by 31 December 2011 at the latest, and that the 2011 law has then moved that period to 31 December 2014. Later, amendments and additions of 2014 introduced Article 126a, which states that the school director, subject to the conditions laid down in Article 126, must also have a licence for the work of the director, and in the transitional and final provisions, it has been established that that provision enters into force as from 1 January 2017. This provision was therefore last amended by law amending and supplementing the law which entered into force on 30 December 2014, under which the obligation to obtain a licence from the Director as of 31 December 2014 was moved by 1 January 2017. Since no basic assumptions have been established to date for the licensing of school directors or no programme for obtaining a licence has been adopted, nor has the procedure and method of obtaining a licence been prescribed, this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Training and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools, it is proposed to delete the provision of Article 126a of the law which prescribes that the Director must have a work licence and that the time limit for obtaining the same on 1 January 2017 and as prescribed in the transitional and final provisions of Article 44. Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools from 2014 With that in mind, I have three important things to stress. First, the licensing obligation laid down in Article 117(5) of the Law remains in force and it shall remain in force and shall read ‘Program, procedure and method of acquisition, issue and renewal of a licence for the work of teachers, teachers, professional associates and directors and the rights and responsibilities shall be prescribed by the Minister.’ Thirdly, in those school institutions where the directors of the term of office expire before the entry into force of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, it is proposed to apply a regular institute of acting directors in accordance with the provision of Article 131. The Law on Breeding and Education therein stipulates that the acting director is appointed in the cases prescribed by the Law on Institutions and in other cases where the institution does not have a director. In accordance with the same article of the Act as acting director, a person who fulfils the conditions for a teacher, teacher or expert associate may be appointed. For many years, the educational policy has clearly been defined for the licensing of educational professionals. In addition, meetings with representatives of primary and secondary school directors have highlighted the need to license directors. In this respect, it would stress on 19 June 2015 that the implementation of the project of the Director of Professionals and Qualifications, not a function whose total value of around 2 million kunas with a non-refundable amount, was slightly more than EUR 900,000 co-financed by the European Social Fund and approved for funding under the call for project proposals, improving quality in higher education with the application of the Croatian qualification framework from the operational programme for human potential development 2007-2013. The project is held by the University of Zadar and the Faculty of Education and Educational Sciences and the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek. As part of that project, which lasted until 1 November 2016, a standard of interest was developed by the Director, Director of the Educational and Educational Institute and a standard of qualification of university specialists in the management and management of educational and educational institutions. A month after the project was launched by the Minister of Education and Science on 17 July 2015, he appointed an expert working group for the implementation of the fifth objective of the education, science and technology strategy with the task of drawing up standards of interest and qualifications for the directoral profession, as well as the development of a model for the introduction of a relicencing system for obtaining and retaining a licence for the work of directors in the educational and educational institution. In December 2016, therefore, a month ago, an expert working group submitted a proposal to the Ministry for a model of licensing of directors of educational institutions, and the expert working group also developed a standard of interest and a standard of qualifications for the directoral profession. In 2015, therefore, of the 2 groups of experts commissioned in an almost identical project, since through the project of the University of Zadar and through the work of the expert working group, the ministry will develop very similar standards, led by the principle of responsible and effective management of financial resources in the upcoming period, co-ordinate the work on the creation of a single proposal for standards of interest and qualifications standards. Both holders, i.e. the applicants, confirmed the principle of willingness to engage in joint work on the creation of a single proposal. As a conclusion, it would point out that the licensing obligation prescribed in Article 117(5) of the Law remains in force, which means that the licensing is continued and the provision of the law in accordance with which directors will have to have a licence as a condition of work will be subject to the law at the time when all the necessary conditions for obtaining and implementing the director’s licensing are met, which means, in particular, when a standard of interest and a standard of qualification is adopted, a rule on licensing as well as programmes for the exercise of the licensing of directors and so on. The Ministry of Science and Education will have an intensive approach to the creation of these conditions in the coming period. Here, in accordance with the proposed name, please ask the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposed amendments and amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27966	Representative Sabina Vosovac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27967	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, I think it would be polite to say that in your opening presentation, you apologized to the Croatian education system, directors and the public because, with this bill in the Croatian Parliament, you are only coming today to cause unmistakable damage to the education system in such a way that at this moment, about 60 Croatian schools have no directors because of you, your sloppyness, unhappiness and irresponsibility. Because the competition, 18 competitions already held and 50 competitions that are ongoing in its content as one of the conditions for choice are prescribed by a condition that no one can satisfy, which is the possession of a licence. Realising that free candidates can sue you, you are probably erasing this provision of prolonging the licensing period and completely moving the conditions as such from the bill. I think a fire measure like this is the principle of how it should not be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27968	Thank you. Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27969	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, I personally agree with the prolonging of this provision, I will vote for this law. However, what I want to warn you, what I disagree with, so before I do, I want to warn you that there is a license for a director. In my county, she exists, and you know who's betraying her? The betrayal is the Croatian Democratic Community, so it is in my county. Not the principals. The cleaning lady at school can't be unless she's a member of the Croatian Democratic Community, so that's what you're talking about. What should be done in the future, first of all, to resolve the question of the school board and the selection of directors. This is a purely political choice and it needs to be put to an end. We have three members who choose the founder, the county although with many schools the county has nothing to do with it, because in many schools you don't even have toilet paper, you don't have, the kids when they go after the ball you know then he has to get up to the plum to see where he is in the grass ball. When we ask the janitor why you didn't cut down the river, I don't have any fuel. I say we get some gas. He says I don't even have a trimmer, I have to wear mine. These are the problems we encounter in schools. And I don't see, I claim that in Croatian schools there are a large number of teachers or almost all teachers, teachers, teachers who do their job very well and professionally. They're professional in many parts. If the ministry wants to introduce a special education, special competences that the director would have to have in the future, let the ministry, together with the founder of the regulations that these are, let them test, send them to school, and in the school board, let the teachers sit, return the school chambers and the parents who are interested. Because the law even provides a provision that parents can't be appointed to the school board. A man who's an employee of the school. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Imagine if an employee, and everyone would like it, has seven children, and just because he's a school employee, he can't be a member of the school board as a parent. That's what we have to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27970	Thank you, Representative Sagar. Representative Bojan Glavasevic also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27971	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, thank you for your presentation. However, I must say that it is completely unworthy and that what you wrote in that law is a dead letter on paper, let me explain why. Because you allowed first of all to kill a curriculative reform that was one of the main tools for the recovery of Croatian education. You have the head of your ministry of a man who's a proven plagiarizer. You have a state secretary of your colleague who discriminates against national minorities and persons with disabilities. You allowed tax reform to break over the back of students who had to make money so they could afford college. You were silent the moment the government in a drunken billionaire's manner had promises of money for planes, for helicopters. 14 to 23 billion kuna for the purchase of INA, and you haven't asked why there isn't a single billion for our students, for our students, for our teachers, for our university, none of which are top 500 in the world. So that's why you kept quiet. And this all you've written in this House may be used by people who sit on the other side and pass, but it's with credibility and it has nothing to do with quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27972	Representative Ivan Lovrinović reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27973	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Schlezek as State Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question. Namely in the current law, so please answer me if there is any provision left that the school principal, primary school, can practically be a nearly unlimited director. Is the new bill defining the duration of the term of office? If not, I was already looking for a break about three or four weeks ago. I suggest that the director be elected no more than twice, no matter whether it be a break between us or not. Why? The arguments for this are, are precisely on the side of this practice that we have that in a significant number of cases, directors have been directors for years and years. There is also a suitable climate and atmosphere for the conveniences of various kinds, the motivation of such people is weakened because they do not have the initial charge, and this also agrees with MP Sagar that the influence of local and political structures is because they choose the director and the other members that it is simply so large that it poisons education at lower levels, meaning higher levels. So please answer this question, because if you go into licensing and you consider it an ultimate achievement, then an integral part of that standard must be to regulate the term of office of director. If you don't do it then you can license the cat on the tail hang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27974	Replication response, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27975	Thank you very much. I'm just going to say that this proposal of yours will be considered. When developing the licensing system that we started on the basis of these two proposals that we received from both the expert working group and the group working on the project and universities in Zadar, it will be considered and will certainly be taken into account when considering and adopting a final proposal for a single system of licensing of directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27976	Representative Zeljko Glasnovic reported on the replica. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation on behalf of the SDP representative club? Yeah. Representative Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27977	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As you can see, in early December the SDP Club sent the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with only one article, which is to extend the deadline laid down by the Law on Audit for Directors from 1 January 2017 to 1 January 2019. We did this for a reason because we felt that this Croatian Parliament should create all the preconditions to prevent chaos in the system after 1 January 2017, aware of the fact that no work has been done and that there were no preconditions for prescribing to the directors in the competitions the conditions of ownership of the licence if these directors could not or could not obtain that licence. Unfortunately, our proposal for a law in the part where we actually did the government's work, seeing that at the last cabinet session, and before the Croatian Parliament leaves on December 15th, that no draft law has been sent to the government and assessing that what is happening at this time could happen is that more than 60 Croatian schools directors can't be elected, that tenders that prescribe the conditions of possession of a licence that they can't even acquire, mean at this point we have officials in a system in which this should never have come. I am sorry that this bill is not included in the parliamentary procedure before the break, in order to prevent situations like this where people wish justice could seek justice in court and certainly justice for their benefit. It's the first instance of why we've proposed this bill. The government, from what I've heard on the board, has shown itself unable to accept our bill for the reason that the deadline of 1 January 2017 has passed. Well, of course he passed when he didn't put the bill on the agenda here and now it's pointless to discuss damage prevention as such because the damage was done by inaction. First by inaction of the government, and then there would be something to say about why this bill was not proposed here to adopt it and put it on the agenda, to vote on it and to prevent chaos. When we talk about the content, or about the proposal that we have initiated in our bill, which is that the deadline for prescribing conditions for the selection of directors, to include in these conditions and to own a licence, we have longed it, or our proposal to make it January 1, 2019. Why did we propose that deadline? Well, here's an opportunity for you to hear a number of arguments as to why it's a realistic and feasible deadline, just as well as in the opening presentation of Mr. Secretary of State. So after the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology was adopted in this Croatian Assembly in September 2014, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports went straight to work to meet one of the objectives of the strategy, which is to professionalise the role of directors in the Croatian education system with the aim of quality assurance. As we also heard from the secretary of state, we formed working groups that should have been established in accordance with the Croatian Qualifications Framework, but also with the objectives set out in the strategy, in fact, set a standard of interest, a standard of qualification and bring a model for the directors to be licensed in the future. That's how we created the preconditions of course and in the Operational Programme for the withdrawing of the ESF means the assumptions were there. When Mr. Šustar came and later Mr. Barisic actually what they were supposed to do was choose one of the two models offered and start working. However, we are witnessing today that this will not happen. If we take into account the Government's proposal, I have to express my dissatisfaction and say that I find it absolutely unambitious, absolutely out of responsibility, and we absolutely won't help the system in such a way that the Government proposes, which is simply to delete Article 126a, which means that in some way we're giving up the license for a certain time because we haven't set ourselves up some real, so I'm going to say we didn't even dare to set an ambitious goal in accordance with some normal time plan of implementation of the strategy, which is what we want from our system, and when we want to improve the quality of school management. I don't think licensing directors is the only problem of managing or not owning a license and, I don't know, 20 years of ideas, dreaming about licensing and professionalising the role of directors in schools, then 10 years of the existence of that article itself in the law itself, I don't think it's crystallized that it is, is one of the mechanisms on which we can raise the level of management of our schools to a higher level, but of course it's not the only instrument. But if we move now and it means uncertain, it's very uncertain at what point we're going to take steps that are absolutely necessary. There are many countries that already have and have shown that they can very successfully carry out professionalisation through special education and training of directors. You know that our directors are currently coming from the system, they're experts in the section where they work in teaching or as professional associates. But being a headmaster and the law is prescribed, they are professional school leaders, but they are also business heads of school. Unfortunately, there are no studies in the Republic of Croatia, there is no school for directors, there is no possibility that people who are put in a position to manage schools, except for those competences that they acquire through the completion of high-level studies for the precise performance of teaching or school activities in the form of professional associates. So they cannot acquire special competences that should help them manage schools in a quality way, manage human resources well, work on school development plans, improve school profiling through school curricula and work in the interest not only of improving school working conditions and quality of school work but also of connecting with the entire community. Slovenia has, for example, a national school for directors, Austria has an academy for school heads, Italy has an exam for directors in Rome in front of the state commission who are candidates who want to be directors, Malta has a degree study of school management, Sweden has a special college at university level, etc. etc. Croatia has nothing at this time. There are school boards that elect directors, there are school boards that, regardless of what they're made up of, are 4 representatives of the school board coming from the school system and 3 are external as representatives of the founders. Unfortunately, it is still a policy that regardless of what I say about this ratio which seems to be that politics through the founders does not seem to have a dominant position and influence on the school board we know very, very clearly how things in the Croatian educational system function, that unfortunately quality is sacrificed at the expense of obedience and compliance with some of the staff conditions set by political parties in front of directors, and the directors thus have to return services because they have been chosen to hire what they receive from those who have allowed them to be in that position. I think, finally, in this opening work that we don't need to, and we shouldn't have played with the directors in this way. I understand that you may have done this because you did not dare set a deadline because it would be a dangerous legal zone because we do not pass the law before 1 January, or it does not enter into force before 1 January 2017 and now we have certain damages. We have certain candidates who have appeared in public tenders where the terms of the licence were prescribed, and now if we did not lift that condition so that we would only extend the deadline in the transitional and final provisions I think we risk entering this section because we put sixty people in a rather unfavourable position compared to those who competed for directors before them and those who will compete for directors after the entry into force of this law. But this kind of extraction of hot chestnuts, I don't think it's the right way, I mean, the first thing I told you in a replica was that it shouldn't have happened at all and it shouldn't have happened because the state shouldn't allow such luxury. And secondly, I think you should have provided a reasonable deadline, defined very clearly for continuing what has already been done. Unless you intend to do what you do with the curricula reform. It means you've been welcomed by the standard of interest, and the standard of qualification, and two proposed models, but you won't accept it just because you didn't start it and you'll start doing things from the beginning. I hope it's not an emergency. It is a shame because we have already used this project to fund European funds, we have the resources to use European funds both in this year and in the following year. And I don't see any, absolutely no reason why we shouldn't start or continue the operations. Next year we use it to select a model, to figure out where education is going to be, who is going to do the licensing because it will be the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, which is a roof organisation in the education system for quality assurance, which is to ensure quality in school management. Because if we had the licensing or first if we had the required competences to obtain and satisfy a certain director and then through monitoring, the evaluation of the external evaluation of schools followed what this school director had done in order to also evaluate this work that should ensure the renewal of the licence then we would no longer have to discuss in the Republic who has a majority on the school board, whether we would limit the number of directors' mandates or not because we would take a step forward and ensure that those who are qualified first are chosen, who come ready for those positions and in the professional and business segments, this management segment, and on the other hand, we could say that we would be able to make sure that the renewal of the licence is ensured in our mandate as the most qualitative and that have the measurable results that are measured in a measure of how one manages the school, whether in a bad way, whether it leads it is guided by average or guided in an average manner. This proposal, Article 2 dealing with the draft law, which the Government has referred to in the procedure, is fully acceptable to us. The Republic of Croatia has made extraordinary efforts to ensure that any child with difficulties in primary or secondary school is entitled to a personal assistant or assistant in the teaching process. We are very successful here by 2015 using the European Social Fund funds, but now the time has come simply to create a legal assumption, to adopt a regulation that will prescribe how to train these people who work with children with difficulties. And second, let's see how to agree, or how to make a clearer system to prescribe which children exercise the right to assist in teaching. I don't really have any grudges here. On behalf of the club, I can say that we absolutely support it, but in this part where it's not prolonged, someone here in the replica said that it's a prolonging period within which a licence for directors, or possession of one, will be required as a condition for someone to be chosen. I have to say that it's simply not about prolonging the deadline, it's about erasing the deadline, and this is about erasing Article 126a that prescribes the licence as one of the conditions. I think it's a step back. And what I'm only interested in for a little while is why I'm interested in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the first draft that was sent to a public debate that lasted from November 27th to December 3rd to propose that the deadline for obtaining the licence be extended until 2021. A public debate has been held, or consultation with the interested public, to which some 140 proposals have arrived, the remarks. Most of these remarks around 100 concerned the amendment of Article 75, i.e. the return of a corrective period to a school that was not present in this law, and interestingly were some of the participants of the public debate who suggested that no deadline should be prescribed and that the deadline should be prescribed in the law only after the public hearing was held. The government has shown itself in the consultation report in a way that it does not accept it. Now I'm interested in what or who influenced the public consultation on the draft that offered the prolonging of the time-limits, the prolonging of the deadlines until 2021 so drastically changed when they had already rejected these proposals here. So they didn't say we accept so we can say, okay. One draft went to a public hearing. It came through a public debate that most participants want something else, they want that deadline not to be prescribed, they want it to be prescribed only when the rules are made, then I would understand it. But if you come to the Parliament with a completely different draft and stick him to a public debate, and there was no public debate on the proposal at all, but on someone else, then I'm curious about who actually affected the fact that he was giving up, or to delete the license. Who don't the professional school principals respond to? Who's in charge of stalling this situation? Who? The only logical answer that is imposed is the politics and those who want to continue to cheer and dress through school boards to frame similar rather than trained professionally qualified, licensed competent directors. If that's the case, I'm very disappointed with that approach in the 21st century our schools have big problems. They are not bad, but it is time not to close our eyes to the truth that happens in front of Croatian schools, to face the problems they have and try to solve them, not to push our head into the sand, deep, deep into the sand. 'Cause if we raise our heads, we could get hit on by a political stick.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27978	Croatian representative Zekanovic, the first to report for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27979	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. Well, I'm glad that you actually agreed with the proposer, so licenseting. However, I don't understand the dramatics of your presentation. This is 60 principals you're talking about. I got the impression that 60 schools didn't start working. So there's no big problem. Simply in a few days when this adoption process will go, there are... The school's prepared directors work, so I don't see any reason for drama. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if we have 3,000 schools in Croatia, and only 60 principals are in the appointment process, I don't think it's something that needs such drama. And when we talk about drama, I wish I had heard a little bit from you before, and now something about a constant reduction in the school population, where every year we have almost 1,000 children less in the education system. So, every year, 1,000 children are less enrolled, and I hope this will be one of the topics that will be discussed by the Ministry of Education together with the Ministry of Demography to deal with and work on. And I see you always need to mention curricula reform. That's right, I'll get attached to that. It's your expert group headed by Yokic that you set up that didn't do the job because experts are supposed to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27980	The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27981	The expert working group led by science doctor Boris Jokic was not our expert working group, but the Croatian expert working group, which led one of the most demanding projects in the history of the Croatian education system, I will also dare say in the history of the Croatian state. Secondly, I dramatize it because it is an incredible ease to undermine very serious things and to relativise not only on this matter, but also on the matter of the Minister and his plagiarism and on the discriminatory statements of Secretary of State Gluncic towards children with developmental difficulties, national minorities and the accusations of other countries to cheat on PISA research. Well, look, maybe things aren't dramatic. I may react emotionally like this, but education is very emotional. I care about the education system. I don't care how and how they teach children in Croatian schools, in which conditions our teachers, teachers, teachers and directors will work. I care about that. If you call it dramatization okay, I can't turn my heart off or I want to. I think if you do something first of all you have to believe what you're doing, and here's the dramatic situation isn't, but it's on the verge of legality because schools are run by performers not because they wanted to, but because the Government of the Republic of Croatia didn't ensure that schools can be managed by those who need to manage them, and these are directors. That's why I think this is a very serious situation and there's no excuse. You can see that even the secretary of state didn't replicate mine, responded to my first replica. And that says a lot about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27982	Thank you. Representative Josip Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27983	Thank you very much. My colleague Glasovac, I really don't see the need for such dramatic tones here today in this debate in a law that has several articles, one similar to what you have proposed as a club, because the fact is that this licensing obligation exists since 2008 and it's been a while since that day that this law came into force. And there have been a lot of stories about it, so you can't even loudly escape from your own responsibility because you've had a chance to fully edit that system in the last four years. You were the assistant minister, there were the great minds of Zelenika, Jovanovic was Mr. Andricevic, a colleague of the Navy's former minister, so there was a time for four years to get rid of it since the obligation existed. It didn't work out, it was delayed as it is now. And I don't really see the need to dramatize it the way you started it because V.D. the Director or the Director's office is also a legal solution. It's not on the verge of legality, it's a legal solution, and the laws recognize it. So I think we can discuss this today. What we expect, especially we in power, is to discuss a whole Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary education that will then solve some problems that are much greater than this problem. Because the question of licensing the director himself may not be the most important thing to me because we have successful and unsuccessful directors today and today and today we have those licenses or we don't have a license, and we need to see what that license brings them, given the financial opportunities they can manage in the future because they always depend on someone else, not on their own ability, and these are the only facts So I think when we talk about this topic, I come from the Primorje-Gorski County SDP is there [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] put everyone in their own way and we can't talk in a different way. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27984	I thank Representative Boric. The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27985	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. You told Borić that there were a lot of stories about licensing for several years, so there was a lot of talk that from the moment the provision entered into the law, I think it was 2006 or 2007 and by 2014 there was a lot of stories, and then in 2014 we developed this story, not us in the ministry but experts developed it through the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology, and after this Croatian House committed us as a body of state authorities to work and it turned that story into work. You also heard in the opening presentation of Mr. Schlezak, the working groups that should have developed the standard of interest, the standard of qualification, so to prescribe everything that should be the competences of future directors, which should be minimum standards and we left, we did, not say again by experts, but by which we gave the green light and managed by dynamics of these processes, we left two models between which we can now choose or in some way unite them into one third. So the claim that there's been a lot of talk about it, and you're putting me in charge of being an assistant, I've been involved in this whole thing that I've told you about what we've done since the adoption of the strategy to this day. So I don't see my personal responsibility here, we really did what we could and needed according to the strategy. And this one, yes, is not on the verge of the legality that manages the schools of V.D. It can happen. But for the first time in history that actually gives you a V.D. They set up because no candidate satisfied the competitions that prescribed something that none of them could have had.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27986	Thank you. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27987	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, you've actually touched one far more important question, and licensing a director is only one part of it, and that's what we want from our school system, where we see it, in which direction we develop it. Curricular reform has been stopped. The time to fix this detail was over. We heard yesterday from the prime minister when he was in a assembly that kept saying he wanted to listen to constructive proposals from the opposition. And here's when we give them away. Then I can't even put myself up for debate. So we could fix this segment, we could find a solution, we suggested it, but it wasn't, there was no hearing about this proposal because it came from the opposition. I can only conclude that the chaos in the system suits someone. To who and why? We can speculate on that, we can discuss it here. But what's important for the functioning of every school, is that all the colleagues and colleagues who worked in the system, is a very important collective, a good atmosphere in the collective, and a well-organized school. It takes a good, educated and therefore prepared school management, which in this case is the director, plus of course professional services, but for professional service, this law does not apply to their licensing and professional training takes place permanently. So if we want an efficient, good school we have to start and change from the top, from the director who will be able to motivate the collective, who will know how to direct the collective. We have a lot of successful directors and directors, and they just need to learn from them and take over their work models. I think licensing the director would be a good step in this direction, that the proposal that the government has proposed is not good because it is absolutely deleted from the law, so the question is whether the licensing for the director will come back at all, but our proposal I think is real and it came in time. And why didn't they listen to him? It's on their soul.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27988	Thank you. Representative Voter wants to score.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27989	Not the point, but the answer to the line. A colleague, Hajdukovic, remains in the law, a provision which in principle prescribes licensing in such a way as to say that there will be or will be licences not only for directors but for teachers, teachers and professional associates. And this is the strategic commitment of the Republic of Croatia, meaning not only to license directors but also to license other employees in the system, so all those who work with children, and that in this way, I say again in the context of this major quality assurance project through internal and external evaluation, we can evaluate any teacher, teacher, expert associate or director. However, it remains in the law, but what is shaving is any idea if we could take this first step, which is the licensing of directors, and there are already some advances that have gone quite far, although I must inform you that we have not been in place or in the matter of creating conditions for the licensing of teachers, directors and professional associates. It's the same thing that was going on. It is not at such a mature stage, but in all this I spoke here when it was debated the trust of Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic's government and warned about what would happen if the Republic of Croatia gave up quality assurance and halting projects to license directors, teachers, teachers, professional associates. That's when I said what stage these projects were in. Unfortunately, since then, as far as the dynamics of these projects are concerned, almost nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27990	Thank you, MPs, the Voter. Representative Blaženko Boban answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27991	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Voice when someone watched your presentation here and did not have materials on the bench will assume that you spoke on behalf of the club, one of the clubs within this assembly, because you agreed with the bill, the work of the law regarding assistants in the teaching, you agreed with this, on behalf of the promoter i.e. The Ministry, except in the section of the article of which you are talking about where you are in your proposal, which requested a deadline on the benches on 1 January 2019. When you spoke in the replica to the secretary of state and began to tell the principals, then I felt the oh, here's a conscience that will work. I would like to remind you, therefore, that the law is the first time where licenses are mentioned in 2008, today in 2017, you came to 2014 in order to extend the deadline of 1 January 2017 by virtue of the law. And I'm saying, I guess an apology will go that way, when no excuse goes to the directors for the negativity of this government imagine from half of November to the end of the year in a month and a half. Really... I'll beg you, Mr. President, so I can finish my thought. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Indeed, it is not correct, if all of them need to go from 2008 to today, they should be incinerated with ash. And I really agree that licensing is necessary and that in this way we can all apologize together to the directors from 2008 to today and who in which period do you assess it yourself. And here, through one replica, you just said about But nothing ok, time's up. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27992	Thank you. The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27993	You're saying we had 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015? So that we are probably taught the way you work should have been a policy as soon as we came to the ministry to say now policy will determine how directors will license themselves. We didn't do it, we formed a team of 100 people we gave our hands to. So the Science, Education and Technology Strategy says that licensing in the law should include whether it is the function of the director who should remain as they are now elected to office or those directors should be professionals who will be deprived of certain interests and influences that choose them to function. [[Intruder President: I ask you to refrain from commenting.]] And through the Strategy of Science, Education and Technology, these people have said very clearly in the work of repeating quality assurance what the Republic of Croatia should do in terms of quality assurance and future vision so that the directors in this education system should function. If this is our sin that we released in 2012 and 2013 and part of 2014 that experts tell us what they think is the right way I accept your criticism and I apologize that politics has not interfered, which has given the profession to do what it knows best. And that's my whole answer and replica to you. I do not agree with eradicating, I have made it very clear, and I am bitter in the way the government is doing, I say what this bill did not send before December 31st, and I will repeat it all day long if it should, because it has put it in a position to conduct competitions where no candidate can meet the prescribed requirement, where no one can simply satisfy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27994	Time. Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27995	My colleagues agree with you as former assistant minister from 2011, it seems to me, until 2014, that the shorter it was, because you left with a colleague Jovanovic from the ministry, I think, I did not follow well enough. But the fact is that you are, in part, right that the likes are directors and that the school boards are similar but that is obvious to the example of the Split-Dalmatia County and in the area of my city. That just literally a cleaning lady can't get a job if she's not in HDZ. But there's one specific example I'm going to tell you now, so he was the director, a competition for the principal of Fr. Pavel Vukkovic's primary school. Of course, the HDZ has a majority of the school board appointed that director and his opponent, i.e. The second candidate was SDP. You know what happened to that candidate who lost to the SDP? The head of school is in Split because Split is the mayor of SDP. And that's how you handled these things both. If I can use names and last names, it's not a problem at all. He who lost in Sinj SDP's candidate went to Split because he is the founder of Split school and in Sinj is the founder of schools county. And that's how it worked. Less cared about those free strategies, and many experts, as in Zagreb, have free textbooks and even donates free textbooks to other cities of the primary school while there are no elementary schools in undeveloped areas, have free textbooks, have no organised transportation. It took less care of those 100 of your professional people, that's the situation that's on the ground. Simply likeness and sorcery on my right side and on my left is even. As a result, in 2002 the Office of State Administration was established in order to control the counties that literally only have an office to entangle and to direct decentralised funds to municipalities and cities both in education and in health homes [[The President's incursion: Time.]] to guide [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[The Intruder President: Representative Miro Bulj thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27996	Thank you. The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27997	Mr. Bulj, you know so much how the system of competence works for individual issues in the Republic of Croatia. You know very well that ministerial assistants, ministers, only the ministry that pays for all school employees has absolutely no impact on their employment in teachers, teachers, professional associates, and even less influence on the selection of directors. So, this ministry, it's an absurd one situation where we pay a paid account, and it's the founders who manage schools. You have now found one of the directors, one of the SDP's directors, as you said, I don't know from a table in Split-Dalmatia County, probably alluding to being excavated by a man who is no longer a member of the SDP. I really can't... What do I have to do with it? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I really don't even know who it's about. [[Intruder President: Representative Bulj, please refrain from commenting.]] It's nothing. [[Adversity President: Representative Bulj.]] You found one SDP director of 100 of them in Split-Dalmatia County, not 100 but 50 sure. ... And may I answer you? [[I don't understand.]] Actually, it's not, it's all clear. You don't need an answer. You're provoking.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27998	I'd like you to refrain from commenting. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u27999	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Bulj hurt Article 238. Rules of Procedure. I think a colleague of the Voice couldn't give her replica at all in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think that's correct at least, and it's not even Lordman's colleague Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28000	I agree. I warned Agent Bull. I couldn't agree more. Indeed, I would ask all MPs at the moment when one of their colleagues is exposed to the problem either through exposure or through replication or through reply to the replica, refrain from commenting. You have different options to express your opinion. Use all those opportunities given to you by the Rules of Procedure, but do not speak while one of your other colleagues delivers an opinion. It's not appropriate. Representative Bojan Glavasevic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28001	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Voter, you have said in your statement that what this law proposes is unambitious and that it will not help the system. My fellow Glasovac, everyone who knows you a little better knows that you are a person with great faith in people, you believe that until proven otherwise that this government and the Ministry of Science and Education are doing a bona fide. You said unambitiously, and I agree that it is unambitious to improve the quality of Croatian science and education. But I think it's very ambitious to destroy him. The whole of Croatia, recently and the world, if we look at Nature magazine a very important magazine, is scandalized by the devastation of the quality of the Croatian education system and by who is at the helm of the policy that shapes it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28002	Representative Glavasevic, I would really ask you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28003	I stick to the subject completely. So I refer to what my colleague Vosovac said was unambitious and it won't help the system. So that's why I'm really not sure you can interpret the bona fide work of this ministry and the people who run it. You also asked, and I quote, "Whom does that suit?" To this fellow Glasovac there is a very clear and very simple answer, and he reads "it is known".
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28004	Replicate response, MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28005	Thank you, Mr. Glavasevich. Oh, there you are right, actually a year into the education system in the most beautiful scenario I'll say nothing happens. But it actually happens to her some processes where certain projects are stopped and okay, okay. If someone thinks these projects are bad, so let them tell the public, it's not good. But what concerns me is absolutely, to say no vision. I haven't heard from her in over a year, okay. I've heard from the government, from the ministry's representatives, that this reform, say, is not good, they've found her 100 grudges. But I haven't heard in which direction, which is what this government is offering, which is what this ministry is proposing. So there's a lot of detected call problems and you throw away what people have been doing before, but without offering a clear alternative. And now that we look at this professional, public consultation on this bill that was faked here, it means that it was actually prescribed to this law but not implemented to it, then you will see that all 140 of these are rejected, only one is accepted, one is the gentleman who is president of the Croatian Catholic Society of Educational Workers, who in one media is under the supervision of Zeljka Markic, and I quote: “In Kurikul too much space is given to civil education and other religions to the heart of Catholic religious science. A comprehensive curricula reform imposes discriminatory harmful proposals, so he says in a public debate an undesirable situation in the school system that has been seriously collapsing under the pressure of SDP and Jokic's harmful Well, it seems that one man has influenced this law. [[Intruder President: Representatives Voter I would like to ask you, just a moment.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28006	I asked first the representative Glavasevic, now you, and after that I will take the floor away. I will not allow discussion of the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The 74th turn into a debate here where you will discuss the right and left sides on completely other topics than what is proposed in the amendments to this bill. So you will either stick to the topic or you will seek other options that can alert you to problems in the education sector. I don't have a problem with that. I'd like you to take advantage of all your options. Thank you. Vice President Reiner. ... Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner, you don't understand.]] Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28007	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28008	I'm sorry, I didn't notice any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28009	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you have actually violated my right to speak on the subject of the established agenda. This is a topic because if you have looked at little materials that are part of the bill's proposal then you can see that there is also a public consultation with the interested public, and I was just quoting the only person whose remark was accepted by all 140. Trade unions have been rejected, professional associations of primary, secondary schools directors have been rejected, numerous employees of the primary and secondary education systems are denied, only one observation is accepted, and this is where I said where man is accounted for with full curricula reform, Jokic's empty and harmful reform, etc. I was actually just trying to point out that there might be nothing here by chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28010	It's hardly an accident in life. Representative Sagar has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28011	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Voice, you have opened two important topics that I wanted to touch in this replica in the part where I agree and disagree. So, what I agree, we're late for the processes that we should have already completed. I think in that sentence, there are no urgent matters only people who are late, with every law that carries urgency we should write late. So there are different European experiences, I think that the Netherlands has a very high school which is a formal education director, while, let's say, Slovenia has introduced a rather rigorous system in which only those teachers and teachers who have passed certain levels of only training can run. You stated very well, in our law there is a provision under which the principal is the professional and business head of the school. I particularly stress, the professional head of school, and defined as in many countries for five years directly educational work. So that's a very important condition for a director. It is incomprehensible to me in Article 100 of the Law that all are stated to participate in educational work other than the principal. I don't see how that could have happened in that law, but here it is. So our teachers, our professional associates, our principals, they go through a constant improvement. Let's not forget, counterpart Lovrinovic even proposes to limit the mandate. That teacher or professor he's coming back he's a teacher and he's coming back to be a teacher again. He's constantly perfecting himself. That licence should then be harmonised, if the teacher gets a license, then it should also apply to the principal. Now back to what we're talking about business. the school board, so many members come to you once for a session of the school board, only when the headmaster is elected with a note to choose. If the school board had an obligation to really manage the school, for example, members of the school board would. ensure the transport of students would then be treated slightly differently. We even have a deputy director, what is this man doing? We didn't define that. And most of the funds, you're right, come from the state budget and it's incomprehensible, and because of the state of the municipalities that have no financial resources, the municipalities have specifically been excluded from the selection of members of the School Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28012	Time. Thank you. I'll just give you a brief warning. We've applied a little bit of a different function just so it won't be too much time outside the box, so we're warning you five to ten seconds before you run out of time, that's something we've already announced once after the presidency. So, five to ten seconds before you run out, you'll hear that we're going to mention that it's time for you to finish your thought. Representative Vesna Bedeković asked for it. Excuse me. There was a response to the replica. I apologize to Representative Bedekovic, just let it be a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28013	Mr. Sagar, I agree with you. The directors were also brought into a schizophrenic situation that no decision could be made without the consent of the school board. And the school board, in a very nice way, despite the fact that the founders' representatives have a minority on the school board, are very often able to hold that fourth vote and those directors to implement the school's decisions, uninterrupted work is often conditioned by certain employment that they have to carry out, if they want to get support for that same policy for their next term of office. And we would actually through licensing and through professionalization and through repositioning and considering in general the need for the existence of the school board as the bodies elected by the leader in the way he chooses it now, but of course not by taking away the founder of management rights to make decisions and taking responsibility through his representatives for the functioning of the institution in whose jurisdiction it is, we would thus solve a lot of trouble and employees in primary and secondary schools who more or those who predicate it to be, pressure, political pressure. We would also make it very easier for the directors to make the best decisions for the school for the best decisions for society, not for decisions that will please those on whom their second term depends. And I think this way of professionalising, now whether they're going back to school or whether they're going to go to some other countries after that in the sphere of inspection as an advisory and supervisory body at school institutions, that's something we can and should talk about. But I don't think you should give up licensing as one of the quality improvement mechanisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28014	Thank you. Representative Vesna Bedeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28015	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My fellow Glasovac, I have listened carefully to your opening presentation and all your replicas so far and with all due respect to you somehow I can't help thinking that you're using the strategy all the time, the attack is the best defense and this problem that we have here in practice, so the law has been implicated in practice, you're raising all the time to one level that I'm experiencing as politicizing. Namely, your proposal to amend the law, which goes after the fact that once again, the deadline for the licence is extended once again as an obligation on 1.1.2019, I am in some way experiencing the recognition of your own inaction, as you have said on several occasions, of your failure. Chronology of Inaction, 27 February 2012, former Education Minister Jovanovic is under way to license the principal of primary schools, and Croatia will introduce the licensing of primary schools as a new way of choosing them to evaluate their work according to objective criteria announced by the minister. 7 February 2013 is a special education and a limited mandate for the Director. The ministry intends to introduce licences for directors that have been announced for several years and are also a legal obligation. On 3 April 2014, therefore, this is with the meetings of the principals of primary and secondary schools, Minister Jovanovic, the obligation to license professional associates, but the director exists for a long time, but unfortunately it has not yet been introduced and our priority is. Sabina Glasovac 9.3.2015 Assistant Minister For licensing is separated 200 thousand kuna, we need to define three key things standard of qualifications of directors, regulation of procedure and programme [[The President's incursion: Time.]] I'm just asking you a concrete answer. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] In 2015, what was specifically done by the end of the term of office? [[Break president: Representative Vesna Bedeković thanks.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28016	Representative Vesna Bedeković, please keep an eye on the time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28017	So I've been talking all morning about what's been done, exactly what's promised, what you've quoted me as a standard of profession, a standard of qualifications and two model licensing. So that's it. Secondly, you find it interesting that I also politicise and we are, politics is meant to propose a law that should take effect by 31.12.2016 in order to avoid chaos in the system and politics is not to classify and not refer that law to the parliamentary procedure and cause the system of chaos. Interesting but basically correct, that's your policy. It's my politics that I tried to solve the problem, do the work of the government and your majority. Why didn't you say so? I'd raise my hand for it first. And politics is what you're doing, so politics is, instead of solving problems, instead of coming here with this law by 31.12. you created the problem, so we now have 60 V.D.s instead of having a director. And you in HDZ are really acting like you forgive the expression but three monkeys. One closes his ears, one closes his eyes, one closes his third mouth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28018	I'd like to ask the MPs for silence, please, I'm asking you not to turn this into such a discussion. The assembly does not need tensions in such a way as to offend other members, other colleagues. Make sure your colleagues want it or not. A representative of Mile Horvat asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28019	Thank you. Dear colleagues of the Voice you encouraged me to this replica with a conclusion in the last part of your debate where you said that politics through the founder plays a certain role in the appointment of directors, in determining school boards, etc. So if I'm allowed to, I'd just spread it here and say one more fact: the founders have one illegal behavior and that's ignoring the law, so I'm talking about individual founders. What's this about? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Law on Education and Education and the Units of Local Self-Government gives municipalities the opportunity to request the transfer of founding rights from founders. And the founder of the current county has, therefore, a legal deadline for the same member to respond to that initiative or to the request of local self-government units. We have a case that three councils of the Municipality of Borovo, Markusica and Negoslavci submitted a request just 2 years ago for the transfer of founding rights to Vukovar-Srijem County and, of course, to the day of today's Vukovar-Srijem County as the founder of schools in that county did not respond to this request. So one logical question arises whether we are an EU member state that ignores its own demands, and the question is how is it that no one from the competent ministry has responded to the fact that there has been a political will in the councils and three municipalities to take over the founding rights of primary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28020	The reply to the replica of MP Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28021	My dear colleague, I know exactly what you're talking about because this article, or the improvement of this article of the law, is defined in the latest amendments and additions adopted in this high home in December 2014 and you are the complete management of the law, in fact, that there is a certain difference between the authority of the founder or founder has full freedom in school management. However, in your situation, it is the founder, or county, who does not want to allow the application of the legal provision in certain schools in Vukovar-Srijem County. And the inspection I don't know if she was going out on the field, whether it was an educational inspection, but I think there's a future where I welcome the decentralisation of the education system to go to decentralisation, to transfer management rights to the founders regardless of the cities, municipalities or county. However, I think that this interrelationship will still have to be better regulated and the responsibilities of the founders in the doing but also in these cases in the inaction or ignoring of the legal provisions. And you're right about that is wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28022	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28023	So Miss Glasovac, I think you would agree and also our friend here from the ministry that this battle for the system, the school system gets on a tactical level. I'm wondering this, maybe you're better acquainted. I was at this meeting of that school board. Who asked teachers in making this law under what conditions do they work? Is there one standard procedure for all of them? We know, each organization is evaluated by training, education, and filling and equipment. As much as you need a teacher, I mean, in elementary school, you know, the teacher's attitude, the students' attitude, etc. What about languages that have been neglected, such as German and other languages. I've been told by some teachers, no one asks them about making this law. The other thing is the general school system. No one's saying I haven't heard at all in those school discussions one key word, and that's ethics and morality, because that's our key problem. We remember this, we remember the Index affair from that former system, and these are our biggest problems of ethics and morality not just in school. We remember when we were getting to say where he was in that system you could buy a diploma there from the Đura Pucara old, come by bus here. How many teachers have falsified diplomas and the Fruscogorian doctorate, it was standard procedure. You can still shop today. That's the question of ethics. And one word is always left out and it's an individual responsibility, because without that word ethics and morals, the responsibilities are not just floscules. This is all, this whole system unattainable about the training of these teachers I was amazed yesterday by people who here have PhDs and openly falsify history. The school system doesn't have a future with people like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28024	Thank you. The distinguished representative Sabina Vosovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28025	Comrade Glasnović, you're right there. You were talking about languages. Good Croatian education system has a mandatory language in elementary school, it is an English language that has been taught since the first grade of primary school. After that, he enters the program and another mandatory language. There are also models where other languages can be learned academically, given the preferences of students, and the organisation and possibility of offering certain schools. However, our system needs radical changes. It is in this program section in our schools that you are still learning from the programmes of the 1990s. Our vocational schools have in one part changed programs, updated them, used funds, so we managed to improve a small part and modernise the curricula. However, we do, we have a lot of problems. When you mentioned the working conditions in which schools work, I think that through the use of funds, we can do a lot to ensure better conditions of work in infrastructure, and as far as the standards of teachers, teachers and teachers themselves are concerned, here I would like to see that in these years, that they have fulfilled the commitments they have signed with the trade unions in 2006 and the eleventh year that all these teachers, teachers who have sacrificed for years, have reduced their rights. At a time when GDP is and the state in the country allows them to be the first, that they will feel it first. For a year, however, the government has been silent at the request. We also saw Prime Minister Plenkovic on the current watch that he replied that the government has no intention of fulfilling that promise. When you talk about the Index affair and about buying exams, about fakeing diplomas, doctorate ha, here I'm just asking you why you didn't say a word here in Parliament about now. The last situation of Mr Barisic... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28026	Please, let's not exceed the time, because then we take the right to other colleagues to speak. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28027	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, colleagues of the Voice. I have closely followed your debate in which you have touched all the important issues related to the functioning of schools of quality, vision, standards, working conditions, school boards, directors, and, of course, I assume that your debate was somewhat dramatic that the ultimate goal of children's welfare was. In one sentence you stated, and it's not good when you push your head into the sand and that I agree with you, but I don't suppose you're familiar with, say, two, three days ago with one situation in the area of the Varazdin County. The portals, the media, are full of headlines: "The juvenile Filip Bajsic has been manipulated, and the reformists will inform the Ombudsman about it for children." The Varazdin SDP child has been used as cannon meat and I still don't list what it is. There is currently a shift being carried out in Varazdin by the hospital's director. That's what SDP and HNS used the kids to do. So, a high school student is a member of the Youth Council, a member of the Youth Forum, and is signed as a young minister of science, education and is looking for the replacement of a director and member of the Governing Council who is not in favour of her shift. I hope you colleagues get to know this case, and since it's a minor child, you condemn the behavior of your colleagues in Varazdin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28028	My fellow Uncle, this is all you've been saying really has nothing to do with the subject, so I'm asking you all as nicely as any of your other colleagues to stick to the subject. Here you go, sir. You're here for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28029	Mr. Vice President, I wanted to warn you that my colleague hurt Article 232. The Rules of Procedure, but here you actually said everything I wanted to say, so thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28030	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas. Replication response. He didn't answer? Okay. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? ..../ A break-in on the side, you don't understand. You don't have to get a reply to the replica. I understand your frustration, but you don't have to get an answer to the replica. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate now. I ask you nicely in the debate we stick to these bill proposals that we have before us, these two proposals that we are carrying out the unification of the debate. I understand the interest and desire of many to improve education and education in all possible ways, but I must say that we still have to concentrate on those bill proposals that we have ahead of us. It doesn't mean in any case any narrowing of the right to talk about everything in terms of education and education, but if we're expanding the subject, I'm afraid we're not going to achieve the right goal. We spent five hours yesterday on one topic that we've all agreed on from the very beginning. And then a man asks himself a question, a good point, and probably both the viewers and the people who listen to us. So, please, let's concentrate on these two suggestions in our performances. So, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the first one will speak for the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28031	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary Mr. Schlezak, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In view of the joint debate on the Amendments and Completion of the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools, I would like to point out that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support that proposal addressed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for discussion and propose amendments and additions to Articles 99 and 126 of the same law. As regards the proposal to supplement Article 99, as the State Secretary has already explained in the opening statement. It is related to the regulation of the process and the way in which assistants are involved in teaching or professional communication intermediaries in order to meet the specific needs of students with developmental difficulties. The law stipulates that the school institution, on the basis of a proposal from the founders, and with the agreement of the Ministry of Education in order to meet the specific needs of students with developmental difficulties in the educational process, may include assistants in the teaching or professional communication intermediaries, whereby the minister responsible for education sign means of including and performing the work of assistants in the follow-up. What happened in practice? Therefore, since the entry into force of this provision, in the meantime, when implementing these provisions, it has been demonstrated that there are in practice different approaches to training assistants in the follow-up and equally different procedures in the exercise of the rights of students with difficulty to assist in the follow-up. Therefore, the provision of Article 99(1) of the Law is complemented by the way in which it is prescribed that, with the means already described and the involvement and performance of the work of the assistants in continuing to be prescribed and the conditions to be met by the additional minister responsible for education, two other things are prescribed by the Regulation. First, the way and content of training assistants in teaching and professional communications intermediaries. And secondly, uniformly to prescribe a way of exercising the right of students with developmental difficulties to assist in teaching. These two additions would create a legal basis for the adoption of a regulation which, unequivocally, would regulate the process of exercising the right of students with difficulty to assist in the follow-up. The second thing, the way and content of training assistants in continuing to work with students with difficulties, which would contribute to better availability of students with developing difficulties in the system, and also to the quality of access and help students with difficulties. As regards the second proposal, it is related to erasure as you have already heard the provisions of Article 126a of the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school, which is prescribed that the school director, subject to the conditions laid down in Article 126 of the Law, must be licensed as a condition for the Director. In this regard, I stress that this amendment and the addition of the law do not alter those provisions relating to the regulation of the director's work, but only deletes that provision which prescribes that the work licence of the directors is a condition that the director must have in order to meet the conditions for selection as director. What are the reasons for the motion to delete this provision? In fact, the law you have already heard, I will only briefly repeat, the Law on Training and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools, which was adopted in 2008, prescribes the obligation to adopt a regulation which, among other things, will be regulated by the program of licensing of directors, and then the procedure and way of obtaining a licence, its issue and what is very important, therefore, its renewal so that the directors can continue their work in their future mandates. It is equally familiar to you, although the obligation to adopt this Regulation has been in place since 2008, until today, the Regulation has unfortunately not been adopted, and the licensing procedure has not been initiated, and the entry into force of the provisions which have been prescribed by the licence as one of the conditions for the selection of the Director since 2008 has been extended on several occasions, more specifically this would now be the fourth time if we decided to extend the deadline. So the last prolonging was in 2014 when this deadline was moved on 1 January 2017. By way of derogation from Article 126a, Article 126a of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council provides for the provision of a licence for the selection of a principal of no school institution in the Republic of Croatia, which does not meet this requirement because the licensing system has not been established and, of course, the directors could not have been as already knownly licensed. And we are currently in practice in the situation that somewhere in 18 schools in Croatia today, a procedure has already been carried out for the selection of directors, however, it is not possible to appoint a director because none of the registered persons has a licence that is a condition. And here, from January to April of this year, are the mandates of about a hundred elementary schools, and there by mid-year, about 150 secondary schools. And as has already been said until the appointment of directors in these school institutions, the duties of directors will be acted by officials. Of course, this possibility is not and can be a permanent solution and of course what will be an implications in practice is a reduction and a reduction in the quality of work in primary and secondary schools. Now, what is important here for the prominent licensing of a director as one of the conditions for making a choice must precede the adoption of a regulation which requires the setting up of a programme, procedure, way of obtaining a licence and its issue and relicencing. However, two key elements need to be filled in to make the right decision. So first of all, since the purpose of licensing the director is, among other things, their professionalisation in accordance with the Croatian Qualifications Framework, to adopt a standard of interest that will cover all the tasks the director performs and all the competences he needs to carry out in order to do the job. And it is equally necessary to adopt a qualification standard for the directorial profession which will then include all learning outcome sets and ways to evaluate, evaluate and verify them. Another important thing based on the standard of interest and qualifications should be to design an appropriate model, so select an appropriate model which will then form the basis for establishing a system of licensing as a whole and the system will then include a programme, process, way of obtaining a licence, way of issuing it, way of relicencing or restoring one whole. In view of the complexity of this, therefore, you can see that this is a whole process, so given the complexity of this issue of the HDZ club, the introduction of a licensing system of directors is a complex process that requires a well-measured, very serious and thorough approach without giving another one in a set of legal deadlines more precisely this would be the fourth deadline for its implementation only to meet the form of licensing of directors as an obligation already on the contrary, we believe that attention instead of being given to the content that must be deprived of any ad hoc solution so that the once-established licensing system in practice can live and function without being deficient as a consequence of the pressure of any speed of its introduction. So the position of the club licensing continues, so the process of starting licensing goes but for the seriousness of access without giving another new deadline. In addition to this, we can add the fact that so far we have proposed two models of licensing, one of which is the University of Zadar and another of the Expert Working Groups appointed by the Minister of Science and Education. So also the fact that the proposal for a standard of interest and standards of qualifications for the directoral profession of the ministry arrived in October and November 2016, and therefore also models were delivered to the ministry somewhere if I listened well and carefully in December, so last year. It is therefore incomplete not a month before the expiry of the legal period of the provision when the licence provision was to enter into force as a condition for the selection of the Director. For this reason, the HDZ Representatives Club considers that the application of the director’s licensing model is first necessary to monitor in practice which will then show how much time it takes to implement it and not just to implement it, but also the evaluation after which the licensing system can be established as a whole and what is very important and most important, and according to what I have already mentioned taking account of the content rather than the form so functionally and effectively live in practice. And then after the functioning of the licensing system is shown in practice, a legal deadline will be regulated when, to which the introduction of the licence as a condition for the selection director will be a legal obligation. And what is particularly important is that the relevant attention should be paid to that section of the licensing system relating to the licensing process, so the renewal of the licence to be followed in continuity after the first licence and it is closely linked to the introduction of a quality assurance system in primary and secondary education as one of the essential objectives of the education, science and technology strategy. Therefore, the introduction of a quality assurance system involves two essential segments, which are only the evaluation and external evaluation of primary and secondary institutions according to clearly established quality standards with relevant indicators, which would then be necessary and must be indicators of the performance and effectiveness of the director’s work when the licence is renewed. Therefore, on the basis of these criteria, it is therefore necessary to verify and assess the director's work. In this respect, the introduction of a quality assurance system in primary and secondary education should be a process that will take place in parallel with the introduction of a system of licensing of directors. Therefore, for all these reasons which I have cited and explained, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education, which has been referred to by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which proposes amendments and additions to Articles 99 and 126 of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28032	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28033	Thank you very much. We are indeed discussing two laws today in a united debate, one is the government's proposal, the second is the SDP club's proposal. The difference is some kind of deadline that's interpreted here as ambitious. So the SDP proposed a deadline, which they claim is ambitious, in 2019 we would have dealt with it. However, we also have their actions, we heard a clear apology from Mrs. Voter for the sin of indemnity in her term while she had all the leverage to solve this problem as well as the minister who was in charge of it. And I think that debate is going on in that part. What's problematic is what we heard and that's one of the lies the lady said today, and that's that the minister has no authority in the appointment of the principal of primary or secondary schools when it's not true because we had a case where one principal of the primary school in Vukovar, who was also our colleague in the previous term, the minister did not want to appoint, and we also have a case from Ploč where three repeated competitions for directors are because the minister refused to give consent. So we're looking for your apology because it's obviously not true. So the minister has quite the authority to appoint a director and you can't become a director unless the minister gives you consent. That's what needs to be fixed. I think that we will still have to agree today that it is good that we do not have a deadline, given that many of the actions that preceded the system itself that should be licensed by future directors are incomplete and that it takes some time to apply and professionally assess to what level can really go with this proposal, because the fact is that we will also have a wide discussion of what is the possibility of the principal of primary or secondary school itself, given that he has founders, that he has school approvals that are generally politically chosen depending on whether the SDP or HDZ or someone else in power in the counties or large cities, and that in some parts of the interference and the very qualifications they have and the current certain people who can be directors. So it's one big debate, and it's good to say we put this off for a longer time, so we can get the right conditions that we can actually go right into this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28034	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28035	Well, my dear colleague, I agree with everything you've stated. And so anyway, once again, I stress the Director's licensing process is very complex and very complex and should be well thought out. The essence of the introduction of a licence for a director is, among other things, the professionalisation of the directorial work to avoid, therefore, or to reduce to the best possible measure of politicisation and therefore political appointment of principals in primary and secondary schools. Personally, I believe that among our principals of primary and secondary schools and we have about 1400 of them we have great people, we have very capable, very valuable and very hardworking people who should therefore be given to do their job properly and should be given the opportunity to acquire additional competences in the field above all school management and then to manage the school institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28036	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28037	Dear Mr. Vice President and esteemed colleagues at this point, there is actually no other logical solution to get rid of this. Therefore, it is only logical that this is actually a colleague of Bedekovic and you yourself, Vice President of the Parliament, to accept this. Let's not actually discuss the things that we all agree on. But here I would still refer to this subject of the principal or the subject of the school boards. We had a model when the school board was chosen exclusively by units of local self-government or regional self-government. We had a model when, this current model when it's part of a collective, when it's partly chosen by local and regional self-government. We had if you remember 10 years ago that model when it was exclusively chosen by the House if I'm not mistaken. No model is perfect. We need to find a new model. I suggest here that maybe a new model puts the ministry or the minister in a slightly greater influence on the selection of directors. Now in what way, is it through direct selection of members of the school board or something else I don't know but it would be, here's my one suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28038	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28039	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I appreciate your experience in education, but I'm sorry that you had to defend something that I can see for yourself that you're not convinced that it's right because you've devoted 2/3 of your exposure to the technology that it looks like and you haven't entered the scale of why you're simply throwing out a deadline for the selection, so licensing of the director. To point out that the previous government, the HDZ government and the MOST government and the current government if we cannot share it with each other, had all the ready and standard professions and standards of qualifications and two model licensing. So you had everything in your hands to run the license. And it's a shame that a Montenegro does not have the licensing of directors but also has the licensing and teachers. What does that mean? This means that this is what Croatia should have and this is a continuous education. All 3% of our citizens are in some kind of continuous education when we talk about workers. So if you're sworn to professionalising the director, you can't take the impression that this delay means killing the licensee and that we've stayed on what we've been up to now, and that's political personnel, because obviously HDZ is in the interest of having a paw over who's going to be the director, and Mr. Zekanovic also said that the minister should have a bigger role, which means that we're going back to political staffing instead of having a director like everyone in Europe, and here we look through the Atlantic in America, licensing directors is a process that is independent of politics, the choice is independent of politics choosing the best people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28040	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28041	Dear colleague, I understand your performance, you are in opposition and it is your job and it is your duty to perform like this and I fully understand and I fully understand. I have, on the contrary, entered the metrics in my presentation, and the measure of this problem is that the certification process is a serious and complex business that requires time. Your government had four years. I referred a concrete question to which I did not get an answer, which was specifically made only from that statement in 2015 that 200 thousand kunas for the licensing of directors were secured. That was if I wasn't wrong before the end of my term. That was three years before your term. And I repeat the question, so what exactly did you do in four years? The proposed licensing models came to the ministry at the end of 2016 as well as the standard of qualifications and occupation, which was during the past HDZ government. I want to hear specifically what's been done on this issue for the past four years of your government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28042	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28043	Dear colleague Bedekovic. You're already slowly surprising me as an expert I really respect. I see you've been tasked with the whole debate by attacking the former government to try to justify the dissatisfaction of this government and the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic. I will repeat it again, which was done in the term of the government of Zoran Milanovic for the licensing of directors, but I don't really need to repeat it to you because you yourself said it in your presentation. That an expert group has been formed which has been tasked with developing a standard of interest and a standard of qualifications from the ministry. And this expert working group worked for a year in 2015 after a strategy was adopted. Of course, before a strategy has been adopted, only a non-serious policy can come into some projects without asking the profession what it means and in which direction Croatia should go and also on the development of school management professionalisation. So the finished product was delivered. You had two models waiting for Schuster, that's what we were doing. Standard of occupation, standard of qualifications, provided funds in the budget that people can work so that they don't have a difficult environment. But my question is, what are you doing and what are you going to do? And why are you, now you answer me as a scientist and a very smart and professional person, which happened in two months that you've been in a public debate draft, you've told me that four years to make you a writing rule, and we've prepared everything else for you. It takes you four years in a draft for one rule book to run a license. And what happened in two months that you don't have a single rule for four years now? That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28044	Thank you. The distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28045	Well, dear fellow Members, first of all, I didn't get the task of defending all of this, but all I've said so far is the fruit of my thinking, of thinking based on concrete facts and on fact. So you can see specifically that during the four years of all that you've been doing, very little has been done. You said that Mr. former Minister Shustar was welcomed by two models. The two models were not welcomed by Shustar but were delivered to the ministry in 11 and 12 months 2016, more specifically before we will continue to count for about a month. So in a month, it's unserious to say we're going to apply any of these models and make a rule. You can't make a rule without a tried model or a model without a good rule. So giving up any deadline is exactly the opposite approach to yours, going in favor of the seriousness and complexity of this story. You had your own deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28046	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Comrade Voter, please don't throw you off the bench. You have enough chance to react to all the statements, let's not throw them out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28047	You had a deadline that you yourself set, which is 1.1.2017, so by the end of your government's term, we haven't delivered any of the certification models, nor the standard of occupation and qualifications. Without these two key elements, it is not possible to make the rule quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28048	Thank you. Okay, do I really have to warn you? You have plenty of options to react to the current Rules of Procedure any way you want. So don't throw it out of the bench. Well, then I have to give you a warning. Now the replica will be spoken by the esteemed representative Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28049	Dear colleagues, I thank you for what you said about this proposal. And before us this proposal of the Government, which was, although only a few articles are being amended, extend to 196 pages. It contains a large number of repeated remarks. They look and leave the impression that they're even a little out of touch. A large number of the same remarks, and I do not believe that all people in the education system do not know that when public consultation and commenting are not made comments on what is not changed at all. So I'm interested in your comment whether it actually makes an impression if it's true that our representatives or people in the system are there by someone's task then it's very surprising that there are even 196 comments on what is not included in the amendments and additions to this law at all. So I'm interested in your comment on how you comment that people wrote the same comments, different people, different institutions on what doesn't change at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28050	The distinguished representative Bedekovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28051	So look at the aim of public debate or consultation with the interested public is to get feedback and people therefore all the interested public, each individual, each institution has the right to set up therefore and give suggestions on any article of the law. And you simply cannot and should not, therefore, prevent the interested public from making comments and suggestions on any article of the law. It's the real public.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28052	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm listening to these discussions and I'm putting myself in different roles, so I'm also putting myself in the role of founders of that formal, fictional one that we've heard the ministry that doesn't pay, and you haven't said that before, I'm going to say that part of the replication, maybe just another addition to one of your discussions, that the ministry gives money, gives wages, doesn't decide, that then I guess something is decided by the founders. And then I asked myself a question now, you're coming from this sector from the profession in different roles, so I'm asking you if maybe you could explain a little bit closer who runs our schools in general? He doesn't run a ministry that pays as a salary, so he doesn't give the ministry a salary it's just one form of technical work. Those who are the formal founders of me are responsibly not managing schools, don't manage schools because they have a minority on school boards, so they have a responsibility and they have no rights. And I'm asking myself a question now who's running it? And what's important to me, so I agree with your debate, I'm glad to be doing this model of assistants in the classroom, that he's being upgraded. On the other hand, I am not sure that licensing the director would greatly improve system management. And I think this delay is good and that this review of all these problems needs to be seen at all who manages school systems, who manages schools? There's no formal control of anyone right now. So there's a certain self-government that's being co-ordinated. We know three teachers, teachers, teachers, one parent, most of them can do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28054	The respected representative Bedekovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28055	Well, here's an esteemed colleague, we're going backwards, we're going to those of your last question, so as far as the purpose and the need for licensing are concerned, not in terms of licensing, but in terms of purposes and the need to give any additional knowledge and competence to the directors. So if we take the part, what's the role of headmaster in school? Let's call it a Colloquial saying the Director is the Chief Chief and the Director is the main and responsible person in the institution who must be able to manage it. We currently have a situation to choose for the school director a person who is one, one of the teachers in the institution and who therefore has very little competence and very little knowledge in the field of school management. I would say very little of the management skills needed to manage school in a quality and effective way today. In all of this we have those directors who have a natural gift for human management, have a natural leadership in them. So we have those who don't have it. And now they're swimming here and they're doing their best. In this regard, I personally believe that it is very important to give the principals additional knowledge in the field of school management, additional competences and all that will then enable them to achieve better quality skills throughout this gungula and quality management of the school institution. So, as far as this other school board is concerned, who's running it at all? The founders of primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia are, among other things, municipalities and, that is, cities and counties which should have a majority in their school boards according to the law. So, however, when you take, when you count the members, the founders' representatives, and when you put it on the scale with the members of the school board appointed by the institution itself and by the parents, it is now sincerely depending on how the parent will define himself. This is a real situation that we have and in any case it is worth this notice and is worth a thorough discussion of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28056	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Representatives' Club Life of the Wall and the SNAGA will be spoken by the distinguished representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28057	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have been listening here for two hours now to discuss who is to blame for not reviving the director's license after ten years of announcing that it will be carried out. And I believe the public had a chance to hear that the culprit was not detected because it was actually a shared responsibility. In fact, this state shows all the misery and misery of education in the Croatian state, the country of alleged knowledge, not for the first time but for countless times to begin and after 10 years we do not even have a minimum shift in achieving the objectives outlined, and then, in the end, we have no other solution but simply a legal proposal to reject entirely. So we have a case here, too, with the licensing of directors by myself completely unnecessary because we have a very good system of picking directors, so we have educated people with colleges working in a collective, who participate daily in the work of college bodies and management of different parts of the school system, whether they are active, whether they are classivists, school committees, teaching councils, trade unions, county councils, competition committees, various bodies dealing with public debates, etc. So teachers participate daily in the creation of school policy and they simply have the opportunity to learn how to manage school, and moreover they are just ideal people to be elected principal. And I'm shocked by the fact that we're listening here on both sides of the opposition and by the ruling statements that the school should be managed by managers. What kind of managers should manage schools? So people who are completely separated from actual school events just as most MPs don't understand what's going on in school and even less will understand if schools are led outside of some bureaucratic procedure. The principal of the school must be a person who knows each of his students by name and last name. A person who knows parents, a person who knows the environment in which he is located, and a person who has had a real experience teaching at different levels of work, here I am going, of course, to have some teachers work on several schools, on several different schools, to be perfected at many seminars, on many activities outside of school. This licensing was therefore just another example of a parade and a spin to change something in school, and in fact, in advance, as in many other cases, the famous curricula reform or I don't know in advance what knew that there would be nothing of it, that the proposing's intentions were dishonest and that the whole goal of these measures was to have several newspaper articles and to maintain the perception that here is something finally changing. In particular, in the last ten years, schools have become a cadaver of bureaucratism. Teachers become bureaucrats of the Soviet-Leninist type. She's the worst bureaucracy that's ever existed in history, and that's what our teachers pretend to be and why? Because he is a legislator persistently imposes on them such obligations that he can no longer deal with what he should deal with. What tomorrow will go to the teacher's license, the housekeeper's license, the janitor's license, I don't know. Do you know what a teacher has to do with all his duties? Have you ever wondered? What does he have to do? How many of those bodies does he have to write? Well, that's tons and tons of paper, that's more paper than there are parliamentary representatives on benches that don't even read. And they keep getting, instead of going to discharge the school system going on a load. We have a queen, an electronic matrix, written, preparation, regular preparation, customized preparation for the competition, reports this one, and enrolls.hr. The teacher can no longer go on vacation as much as he's loaded. License director what, what's it for? Who's gonna do it? Is there anyone here in 10 years to answer those questions? What kind of personnel, with what means, how much does it cost? Can I now? I don't know. I live in Chakovec. Is that possible? Where will my family know, do I know these people? So it's just something suddenly that, like a paratrooper, throws into the education system, and then here's what happens that eventually the legislator is facing a disgraceful defeat and responsible, and no one is responsible. All ministers responsible for the past 10 years, all their ministerial assistants, are responsible for all the assembly committees. The President of the Parliament is also responsible, so if you want the prime minister because the laws are passed, then they are not implemented. And there's really no other solution at this point, but this law simply pulls out because nothing's done. In order for the licensing system to come to life now, I don't know the French foreign minister or one who already has how much experience it would take us two, three years to get licensed directors, and the guarantee of course is gone. We deal with the licensing of directors, we deal with staff issues, we deal with what one minister, his assistant, his secretary, and things like that said. So we deal with procedures, and we don't see what's important, what really happens to us every day in front of our eyes, which is that 10 to 15% of the students in the Republic don't have the money to pay for school lunch. Do you know what the amount is? 70 kuna. Look at the statistics. Here, I'll give you those statistics, I collect them. I can't pay for textbooks. 1.9. are parents, I can't sleep out of trouble that I can't pay for a work notebook or I don't know a pillow, a bag, a physical kit. I can't pay public transportation for their kids to go to school. I can't win a scholarship, even though it's supposed to be some competitions. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's no working conditions. Here and now, I read today how kids don't know how to break through the snow, walk to a school like on an Igman march. And so these are the real problems our school has, and they're not mentioned here. There's no mention of it. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. It would therefore be better if once already the legislator in this House began to talk about solving real problems, and not about any formal-legislative issues that essentially do not solve anything in the education system itself. Look at the statistics and someone said only the number of students is rapidly decreasing and the whole quality of this work is being discussed here, we're fighting a trench battle whether it's a member of the SDP or a member of the HDZ in some segment of responsibility. I think that, when it comes to education, we must all agree together that it is a national interest and that political battles should not be fought over. I'm surprised at the passion of some MPs who would be talking about their political rivals by tomorrow morning and not seeing real problems, even less access to their resolution. Of course, there's also the question of hiring these directors, the way they choose. But as some have already mentioned, all school employment is controversial. There are many disputed places in both business and financial and everything else. It's my suggestion. I've been saying it for a few years. Please enter these password contests, code-coded without a name or last name, and then you will have automaticism to improve the education system by 20% to 30% because they will finally teach people and run schools that have expertise. So do you know that in Croatia you have cases that I don't know English teaching a teacher who doesn't speak English and that music teaches a teacher who can't play, which allows our education system based on political similarities and on these discussions that you are currently having. Why does this government not, among other things, discuss that teachers have not been raised by means of a contract that is duly signed? It's another shame. Well, when it's the same since 2007, it's been the same 10 years. Let's not talk about missing teachers' salaries in the economy. The only thing we can really support here is this one detail that my colleague Glasovac said, and in this case, if the law had already been repealed, it should not have waited until the last moment, it should not have waited for 70 competitions to be opened for the directors if the proposal had come to the Parliament in early December, there was time for this issue to be resolved on time. It's really only 70 directors out of 30, but whatever it is, it's only one. Trust in institutions is also in principle and 70 schools each have 500 students, 300 to 500 students and all those communities, all these municipalities, all these cities know what happened. And now we just have to keep letting this happen again. I'm just waiting for when the next thing I know, we're going to get into the Parliament, which we're going to postpone or end again, like, that law on cops' salaries that's also been on the line for seven years. And what are you going to say in the end? You will say that the Living Wall is used by populist methods, and look at your actions. Look at you in the mirror, as long as you need to move your finger, don't get in my word. That's how you get into your prime minister's word. Here, you had a chance yesterday, and you didn't even come.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28058	Please don't throw us out of the seat, and don't argue with the people who are getting to you either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28059	So look at you in the mirror, and there's no reason to be angry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28060	Thank you. I have to say first just before we move on to a huge number of replicas from the Bunjac to the legislator, that's us. We're legislators, there's no other legislator. We're the legislator, so we'll get it then. Well, you see, on your presentation, about half the members of the Parliament came forward, so let's take it in a row. The first one came from a respected representative, Zeljko Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28061	Dear colleague, I think this is a good debate, is this a key question? And I'd say, again I'll say about an army that's somehow formed, standards are the same from Zimbabwe to Alaska. When a person sees a problem entering the commander, he must propose at least two solutions to the problem. What are your problems to solve your solution to solve these problems? That's the first question. Secondly, we would all agree here that Croatia suffers from two fundamental problems. First, people don't know how to operate bigger systems, and the second is morality, corruption at all levels. And that's a product you never talk about because you're also a product of that system, where you went to school because that former system of school where it was first command, a little bit of doing a lot of stealing, etc. It's an anthropological question and it's a key moral question that's never been solved here, you don't talk about it. Secondly, the three components we have in this whole thing, the first components are teachers, I mentioned it in whatever conditions they do, it can be fixed, but the principal is responsible whatever school... as the commander is responsible. Secondly, whoever asks teachers, I mentioned this earlier, and the third components are parents. In that law, who included parents? Education, one-third of it's in the house, young sir, where you know who you are and what you are. What about Croatian? Words like geography, not geography. We haven't coordinated the system of education, look at the UN Index for Development, we haven't coordinated the school system with the labour market, we have five million economists, etc. can't get a plumber, etc. And the key question of why we have a multifunctional system, we have to fix it. And these key questions you avoid exactly the answers and if you were a history teacher to my children I don't have, but if you did, I'd be amazed that yesterday you were talking about an evil empire...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28062	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28063	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Glasnović. So I keep offering solutions, and the other thing is you don't want to hear them. Instead of licensing directors who, as we see infamously failed, we can introduce a repeat, selecting the director under the code. Those people who deal with science and scientific work, let's say, like the President of the Parliament, know that this system in which a person is chosen would essentially not know who he is or which party he belongs to, but only by the basis of references and what he offers works far better than all these so-called. competitions where you know who will be chosen in advance. If, for example, the directors in Croatia were to choose in a way that does not know the name and name of the candidate and, say, the director is elected by independent committees that have no physical or political ties with the candidates and the school in which they choose, I guarantee you that in Croatia 50% raise the quality of school management. We in Croatia have a problem management at all levels, you know it very well. We have smart people, capable people, but we simply don't give them any expression. So we've actually got in Croatia a little bit more to tell the Pharaohs, the people who run an institution for 20, 25 years and longer and on Finally, they even hire their own children. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28064	Thank you. The next replica is distinguished MPs Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28065	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Gluncic, dear colleague of the Bunjac. Here is because you yourself come from the education sector and I believe that you also know that you agree that these changes and complements go in favour of children, in favour of the children of the most vulnerable group of children to be protected and to be of maximum assistance, since we are talking about children with special needs and I believe that you also know that these changes and supplements go in favour of the directors who are not asked for what no one has. But also Article 117 remains, which means that I am a licensing system in the quality system of Croatian education and education remains and that it will be realised and implemented when conditions are obtained. In addition, you mentioned in your discussion the misery and misery of Croatian education, you mentioned a litter on the other side, today you heard stories about monkeys, the attribution of peeing etc. I personally believe that it is a very inappropriate dictionary for the Croatian Parliament and that using such words is the most spoken of by someone who has spoken them and not about anything else because we believe that this can be said in a much more appropriate way. I agree with you that paperwork and the very way our professors, teachers, teachers meet daily is that it is really excessive and that we need to be fully relieved so that teachers, teachers, teachers can devote more to their teaching work. Besides, you mentioned poor children whose parents...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28066	Thank you. You're out of time. The honourable representative Branimir Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28067	Thank you very much, Reverend Buric. I fully agree with you that an inappropriate dictionary should not be used in the Parliament and generally in public life. I think Parliamentarians should control themselves and set their brains on fire before they start language. And what I was talking about when I said misery and misery, I was talking about the system. Teachers are, in fact, doing their job best with children who are trying also in accordance with the conditions they have but the legislator insists on neglecting education. Do you need more proof that education is neglected if no licensing procedure has been initiated after 10 years, but not one single director? So zero of them. Whether we need greater proof that education is neglected and in poor condition, when no agreement has been implemented after 10 years legally that teachers will increase salaries by 6% and that the process of equating them with wages in the economy will be launched. All governments in the past 10 years have been saving at the Ministry of Education, let's say, publicly. Statistics show that the percentage of education isolation has continued to decrease so long as it has not fallen below the too modest 3%. And it's for conviction, it's certainly for conviction. Ask any teacher, students, parents what they think of my words if you don't believe me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28068	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28069	Thank you, pal Bunjac. In your presentation, you said you were opposed to the proposal or attitude expressed on both sides of the assembly and the position and opposition, which is that directors should be managers. Here I have to tell you that at no point in my presentation or on behalf of the club, and I have not expressed that attitude in replicas, and that is not the direction, or form of school management that I advocate. Licensing is certainly not to force the principal to go to classical management, licensing is a procedure that should allow any candidate who wants to try as head of school to try before running to acquire experience that could not be obtained during his formal education when he was employed and after which he was employed in the education system as a teacher, teacher or professional associate. So he was formal education, he's competent to work in class. However, if he has a tendency to manage the school then the state should provide such a person, because we don't have, the Education and Education Agency implements professional training and training but only for existing directors, for people who want and intend to be, there is no way they see whether they are up to it or not to do so, and there are numerous competences that actually school management requires except for those professional qualifications for a particular workplace where you work at a school such as human resources management, knowledge of the legislative framework, but not only in terms of what is subject to expert examinations for each educational worker, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28070	Thank you. They'll respond to a distinguished colleague of Bunjac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28071	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague of the Voice. I don't know why you've recognized yourself in this review of my managers, but your colleague Hajdukovic said that in schools we should have management during today's debate. He's got a phonogram, so check it out. As far as the famous licensing of the school director is concerned, they choose for those who do not know the teachers of two votes, a single-vote staff assembly, parents with one vote, the local administration of municipalities with one vote and the county administration founder with two votes. So we have five different factors that decide on the selection of a director who can't be chosen without having a high level of expertise and a minimum of seven years of work experience, and do you think that's not enough filter for someone to be regarded as capable or unable to perform a directorial function? Because if we go into this famous licensing thing right now and no one knows what it is, what's next? Let's say we're going to license parliamentarians? Where you learned to perform this responsible function of a parliamentary representative before you took office here, for example.? If we wanted to introduce a course for parliamentary representatives to master here's the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Reiner would be welcome to conduct one licensing course so that there are no more incursions, violations of the Rules of Procedure and any other excesses. Let's not get too complicated where we shouldn't. There are problems that are much more pronounced in the education system than some bureaucratic constraints. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28072	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28073	A colleague here at the beginning of your presentation you talked about the topic, you talked about licensing and about the special knowledge that school principals should have. Now we're back to it. By the end of the debate, it went in another direction, so I'm curious don't you really think that school principals now face challenges that are not just about working with a student? They must take care of both school equipment and building use and sustainability. A student of the school asked me recently at a citizen’s reception why some schools have ceilings on their heads, and some have smart records. I also worked with directors in the preparation of European funds I simply saw, and I think we all agree here and the clubs on the left and right that directors need special knowledge, because most of them didn't even know if their building was legalized when the request was filed. They had no such knowledge before them and for which they were responsible. So these management skills are really needed, so I'm very surprised that you think schools don't need to have that. And I think it's a little harsh, I think it's too strict not to express myself differently, that our teachers and directors have become bureaucrats of the Soviet type, so here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28074	Thank you. They'll respond to a distinguished colleague of Bunjac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28075	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Here's if you really honestly asked this question I'll send you a list of jobs that a school teacher is doing today. I'll send you a list of these jobs, and when you see what he's doing, I'll ask you to answer me in a way that he can do all these jobs in a working week, if you want on week seven times 24 hours. Here I am asking you to engage only in the public debate of the one which the ministry is seeking, let's say this famous debate on curriculative reform. It will take you about 8 hours to get involved in this debate only to study any paper, instructions, etc. And where's everything else? Where there are countless other activities that the teacher must perform. And when I said that he was becoming this bureaucrat of the Soviet type, I thought I'd say that he really doesn't have that basic, basic function that he'd have to perform, which is work in teaching, contact with children, contact with parents and his personal professional training. When I say the director has knowledge, it means, of course, the approval of those who care about the selection of directors, then I think, first of all, that every teacher in the already professional exam must take the exam from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In a professional exam, then after one year of internship he must show knowledge of the statutes of school and must know the knowledge of the Law on primary and secondary education. It must show knowledge of all the rules that the school has, starting with the Assessment Regulations, the Home Order Regulations, the School Tour Regulations and all other documents. So he does, he can't even start working without knowing it. And it means simply which he now has some additional knowledge to gain from that licensing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28076	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28077	So here's my colleague, and I also need to look back at that part of your exposure where you claim to be yourself, so you interpret, so you're explaining this problem of licensing a director with the fact that we want to introduce managers into schools. So, clean manager and nothing out of it. So there's no school I'm going to finish if I want to be headmaster at some school. So, the current situation as I have pointed out on several occasions in practice that we have or have a driving gift or you do not have a leadership gift. However, a leadership gift is not enough for you to be a successful director. Schools today face a number of challenges. So we're living fat in the 21st century. Especially what my colleague Roscic said, so preparation for different projects, participation in projects. So these are all situations that require further knowledge of a man who wants to effectively manage a primary school or a high school institution. You said it yourself, so it's a little contradictory. So, if I understand correctly, you're not about the director being the manager. So you said yourself that we, here's what you said we have a problem managing at all levels. We do have a problem with governance in school institutions as well. So for us directors are people from the system, so former teachers, teachers, teachers who must certainly have additional competences and additional skills in order to manage school systems. Here I have to agree with my colleague, the Voter, who even listed some elements of knowledge or skills that must have a particularly strategic governance of the institution. So long-term management, long-term vision where my school and institution want to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28078	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28079	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bedekovic, I think you should explain when you are already calling for these challenges which are therefore additional knowledge, which the teacher, after having passed a professional exam after working in school and with the help that the departments of both the school board and the whole, therefore the system of training has not already acquired in order to be able to perform the principal's duties, is now in need of some further training. I don't know what we're gonna do on that license? We will restate the Republic of Croatia. So if I laid it once, is that okay? I don't know. Then will he have to prove and write his degree's work again after five years? So these basic knowledge was acquired, so first education, and then by practice. I am truly afraid that tomorrow at school people who have never worked in the classroom will work and that we will again listen to such suggestions as come from all sides unusual. I don't know what the vice president of the government gave her that students would evaluate the teacher's work, that there would be a pay for some effect like a school bank and that every humanity, every real contact would be lost. Let's see what our textbooks are like, what our curriculums are like. Well, that's just funny. And why is it funny? Because they were brought by people who didn't spend one day in the classroom.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28080	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28081	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I must agree with you in your claim when you say that an effective education system should be a national interest, it should be. Otherwise, we need to start thinking in the context of national interests, which are our national interests and where we are going. And when we talk about schooling, and one of the segments of education is management of primary and secondary institutions is what we want to achieve, where we want to come and what we want from that system. I agree with you because I come from this sector myself that teachers are often overburdened and overcrowded with obligations that are not necessarily related to their primary work or what would say cor business, which is working with students, so a lot of paperwork, a lot of bureaucracy, etc. Kurikural reform as one of the forms of transformation of the education system was just intended, among other things, to improve the educational process by dispensing students and teachers and actually adapt the educational process to each student. Someone more interested, someone less, in giving teachers more freedom because I am responsible for saying that our system is now, as it is, resting primarily on the enthusiasm of individuals and teachers and that they do not have them, would have fallen apart long ago. And as far as the education manager is concerned, I think you've got it all wrong out of context, and you figured out what I was going to say. Being a teacher and being a principal isn't the same, are all the other challenges you face. I've often had colleagues who have had this, from legal issues to the fact that you have and manage the school's finances, to that that you should organize and teach even though you're part of the tasks you've listed as the director, the successful director, I agree with you, but it's part of the job and the educator. So it's a new set of challenges to deal with, and experience in direct work with students is very important. So that's the same part that needs to be kept when we're talking about directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28082	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28083	I agree with you, Representative Hajdukovic. Education really survives on the love of teachers and students. They keep that system as good as it is, but it's not nice to abuse that love and then go after it, you don't have to invest it, they'll work without investment, they'll work without good pay. I think that material conditions would certainly contribute significantly to improving education, but also to improving the state of the Croatian economy and society in general. So we can agree on that side. In this second part you said, we'll skip that part well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28084	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28085	Thank you. My dear colleague, I think that this entire exhibition of yours should be published in a textbook of logic for high school as an example of how it can be used illogically. Namely, you claim that both sides completely unnecessarily insist on some licensing when it is quite clear that the school director must, so I now list what you said, know the Constitution, law, regulation, must have good contact with parents, contact with children, must be professional in teaching, must be a good teacher, must cultivate a good relationship with other colleagues, must be able to manage human resources. Well, that's exactly it. So it's a license, it's a license content. You're saying we're going to need a license as a list of certain values for doing a job when it's clear that to do a job, we're going to need one system of certain knowledge. Completely incomprehensible and completely illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28086	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28087	Dear Representative Stazic. Before entering this kind of controversy, I suggest you study the education systems in the world, study the kinds of schools that exist, and see among other things that exist in many developed countries to those you admire, the education system at home, that there is a system where parents can educate their own children, that in Great Britain the teacher has the right to write a textbook in the way he thinks that teaching should be done, that there is no conducting or jeopardizing system by some ministries, commissions that only collect fees and rob budgets, piles of arrests, conduct terror over employees, we will have a special discussion on the Education Committee. Here, just one little example. Allow me, while you're already pulling my tongue. A few years ago, when your government was in power, you sent history teachers an instruction that as part of civic education as an experimental subject we explain to children what Athens democracy, children in fifth grade. Here I am now asking you to explain to me after this session what athenian democracy or any representative of your party is, and if you can explain it to me, I will teach it to children of 10 years of age. And that only happens because such instructions are given by people who, in the follow-up from practical insights, don't know anything at all, nothing. History appears as an object for the first time in the fifth grade, children even hear some history and now you will explain to him a process that lasts 300 years to such children you will explain. Here, I'm asking you to tell me who they are, Thessalonicat, Thessalonicat, and then I'll accept your comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28088	Thank you. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić will now have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, I'm extremely sorry that you're in such a bad mood today and yesterday, so you talk ugly about everything you thought you were talking about. If anything, you should support this law only because it regulates the legal basis by which a regulation will be adopted to enable students with developmental difficulties to assist teaching assistants and communication mediators. I believe by Friday you'll think about it and you'll support this bill, I'm saying if it's anything else, then that's why. And if you think that solutions in this or in any other law are not good, then give it already. I said yesterday it would be good for you to make your proposals if you had made a constructive proposal for this law as well. Who says you wouldn't be accepted? But I'm saying if you think about it for nothing else and don't be so bad in the mood, because it'll be better for you to even talk in a more positive direction, that's a lot easier for the man himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28090	The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28091	Thank you very much for your comments. I don't know if you got a report from the Education Committee on the table, I didn't vote against this law, and today I didn't even discuss that part of the assistant in the class but I was talking about licensing the principal whether it was necessary and therefore a shame that ten years had not done anything. You're saying that I'm not in a good mood, I'm in every situation, and at any point in time I'm in a good mood and I'm in a good mood and I'm ready for normal human conversations, but here it's simple facts and the facts are such that the simple system of education is not good, and when you ask yourself honestly after this session and later whether you're satisfied with the education system, you'll know that you're not and you'll know that this Law on licensing of directors that are practically abolished today, no matter what it is supposed to be one fine day, it's actually a stain on education and that it's not my fault either, but someone is responsible, someone is responsible. And I don't know who else would be responsible but those who should have implemented those laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28092	Thank you very much. The next replica is that of distinguished representative Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28093	For example, we can see how what is called an illegal expansion of the debate works. We have seen that almost all speakers have given us a perspectiveal learning model or that they have singled out their own ideas about the meaning of schooling, so we have seen how it works already thinking, but also the unthinkable, and it is simply something that is being implemented at the university from which I come a project that has finished and that is whether it is the director of professions and qualifications or it is a function. If the director is a profession and a qualification, then we will advocate licensing because our principals will not be the most valuable in schools. They're more valuable in schools then if politics sets them up, if they're in policy functions and not skills acquisitions. So, when it comes to licensing when the director is a profession and qualifications, then there are no obstacles to us recognising these acquired qualifications regardless of whether these qualifications are acquired by formal, informal or informational means, so that I would ask you just one question from my colleague Bunjac exactly how this project reads, and that is whether the directors of professions and qualifications are a function or not at all talk about the meaning of education, because then we fall into one infinite nonsense and logical, content, political and any other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28094	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28095	Thank you very much. I can only say to a dear colleague that I would be very afraid to have you as headmaster of the school because I feel that it would be best to remain silent at your sessions, otherwise you would feel the sword politically on your back very quickly because God forbid that you would expand or illegally speak there now – quickly you would come to the end with me. Well, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28096	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Blazenko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28097	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Bunjac, I will quote not to – you said: "I am surprised by the passion of some of the MPs to attack those from another political option," I quoted. And you ever since the Parliament was established you've been in some kind of attack, nonstop in some criticism, nonstop in some offensive, in some depressing state as she noticed a colleague here. Indeed, and you are amazed by the passion of some of us who argue, we are talking about some of the actions of those of another political option. You relativize the role of director, identify the role of director with teacher, teacher and anyone. And on a few occasions, you answered through replicas what the principal needs to know without going through a professional exam as a teacher. Well, it's justified I'll tell you clearly. Law on public procurement, Construction Act, Law on the Construction of the Annual Budget, etc., etc. but these are explicit, and clear and reasoned what the principal needs to know, and there is never a single teacher or school employee in professional training. And you said that the director should know every child by name and last name, all the parents of every child, and I'll tell you that there are at least 5 schools in Split-Dalmatia County that have over a thousand children in schools and that it's the subject of conversations, not through education, but through the infrastructure sector within education, I would understand that it's the subject of talking to us that we have schools in one shift, and you're relativeizing the role of directors in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28098	Thank you. We'll hear the response of the esteemed representative of Bunjec
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28099	Thank you very much, dear colleague Boban. I don't know how I attacked you, why you feel attacked. We're just talking. It's a conversation, a dialogue. You have one opinion, me the other, that's the exchange. Maybe it's not even, it's two strangers, you all have the same opinion. That's nice. It may be a little less stress, but the public is expecting opinions to stand up. I agree at all with you that the school has thousands of children, so it's really for the concern. We have a school similar to that in Chakovec, and there are almost a thousand children. There were some suggestions to build an additional elementary school, but they were never realized. We now see that in other parts of Croatia it exists. Well, that's impossible. How the director can communicate with thousands of children and know exactly what happens in each class or individual student. As far as public procurement is concerned, the principal is just one of the people who decides on public procurement because public procurement is actually decided by the school boards. If you are concerned that the principal has not studied and passed a public procurement exam, how is it that you are not concerned that your parent, therefore a representative of your parents, decides on public procurement, and certainly has not studied or studied the law to a far lesser extent than some school worker? I think simply with this attempt to license the director that he has in practice lived to actually just further bring unrest into school spaces and not actually contribute to a real improvement in quality school management.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28100	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bunjac, you've raised a lot of important questions about education and education. One question is the red tape of teachers. I was probably the same as you were in some way the victim of red tape because I'm a 20-year teacher at school and I'm aware of what that means. The bridge in its programme has the deberocracy of teachers and schools and one example and bureaucracy is one totally irrational and also for the state budget or local budget decision that applications against professors are anonymous and that educational inspection can be made to the school i.e. He has to get into school on an anonymous application. In practice it means this way – that a professor from art education that four girls from art, parents anonymously report to the ministry and educational inspection from Rijeka comes to Zagreb, three days of the teacher's solution, asks for all possible papers and then finds that there have been some irregularities I don't know but there is always an irregularity because red tape is huge. And all of this is paid from a local, or state budget. So here's the bridge in its program, and there's a debirocratization of education, so I'd like to agree with you to go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28102	The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28103	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of Sladolev. If I'm not mistaken, I apologize in advance if I'm wrong, there's no anonymous application in the health care system, and in the education system there's a chance and that's the real problem. That's the problem we should discuss. Someone should feel on their skin what an anonymous application means where you have to defend yourself from someone who doesn't need to be made public. But what's the question here is, would licensing a director solve a problem like this? Would after the licensing of the directors who, if by some miracle had been performed, would they have stopped the anonymous reporting of their parents? Would teachers feel more secure in doing their job, or would they have to again be anxious about those reports that look like some kind of judicial police procedure and that are also giving them such stress that they can no longer prepare themselves for their work? Bureaucracies should be resolved, more transparency should be introduced, and I would like to reiterate in particular, first of all, the issue of public competitions should be resolved. Someone even suggested, I think one minister will be coded, but it quickly gave up and probably in Croatia under such conditions, under this composition of parliament and government it will not be introduced for another ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28104	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28105	Dear colleague Bunjac, I thought I'd give up the replica because some colleagues were already talking about your vocabulary. You mentioned the misery and the misery of the Soviet guy, but here I'm going to ask you anyway, so you can go back to sleep with the ashes, get out or make us laugh a little bit. You said all school jobs are controversial. We've got tens and tens of thousands of educators, so why don't you try and explain to them a little bit what you were gonna say and maybe try to do it at home in front of the mirror? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28106	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28107	Dear counterpart Zekanovic, respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You have just heard that all public tenders in Croatia are legal and that only professional persons are employed. Therefore, you live in an ideal country where you have no fear for your jobs, just learn, educate, get diplomas, and it will certainly help you to get a job. It doesn't matter who your parents are, it doesn't matter who you're strangers to. In this country, high impartiality, high expertise is respected, and therefore you have no concern we have just heard from counterpart Zekanovic that there are no minor problems in the competition. Therefore, conclude on your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28108	Thank you. Since some colleagues have given up on replicas, we will now go to the next club of MPs, and this is the club of representatives of the HNS on behalf of which they will speak distinguished representative Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are a legislative body, as such is not good when we do and when we are proposed by the Government, and we support that things happen to change laws in a way that breaks the standard of those laws that have already been reached. And that, unfortunately, is the awkwardness, the sloppyness, the unhappiness of whatever you want to do with this law. In this House, the Education Strategy was almost unanimous. I remember colleagues were then, for reasons of financial and technical restraint, not because of its content, I read it that way at the time. And in this Education Strategy, we planned, among other things, to implement this objective, and this decision to go to licensing directors in primary and secondary education or educational institutions. I say we've done a lot of things, so since the strategy was adopted, which is certainly not something that can be brought overnight so that I wouldn't agree with those who say that in the period 2011-2015 nothing was done and this procedure was launched, so the working group that worked on this process, which has reached a certain stage that has not been completed and is not in a phase in which implementation can be carried out. But we in HNS and HSU, whose name I speak on behalf of the club, are against the fact that we in law are changing the provisions relating to the selection of directors in a way that we delete terms, the condition that they are licensed. As one achieved standard which is also in our strategy, which was in this law and is already in a certain process of achievement. I don't understand why after this intense debate, who is what when he worked on what dates and whether he did on time, why it didn't go with the proposal to simply introduce this license as a condition of prolonging as already expanded three times. And we'd have a much less politicised debate today, I'd say, a debate about someone being sloppy, not working well enough, fast enough, a little bit of boasting about how they worked better, some how they worked worse, but they wouldn't have this politicized debate but would simply cover everything with that deadline and keep that standard. However, what we are doing is not good, it is not good for the legislative body to give in to the government in a way and we wonder why. We at HNS and HSU are wondering why we're doing it, why we're erasing it, what's the reason we're not giving ourselves a deadline. So what's just such a big deal with a deadline of ten or twenty years that we have to delete it now, and then we're going to be a little slow and I don't know until when we don't even know when to bring in the rule book that the directors are going to be licensed on. That's the main reason we don't think we can support this proposal. In that sense, we will also submit an amendment to re-install a new licensing period, to delete this proposal which erases the condition that directors go as a condition on the licence and that we go into that procedure. It's going to happen anyway because of this legal vacuum that happened that some of these competitions that are currently under way are likely to have to be cancelled. So, if we accept the new deadlines, or the extension of the licensing deadline, these tenders will have to be cancelled again, but of course it will not be worth choosing these directors for the time being. And I don't see this too big a problem except maybe someone's goal of destroying the standards of education that are embedded in the education strategy in the Republic of Croatia. I don't want to believe it, but since we've already stopped de facto in education, and they've been chasing some processes that were extremely important to us, first of all, to the curricula reform, I have to show in the name of the club that this may be a small detail and less important detail, but which says unfortunately that we're going in that direction, that we're going to stop some processes. In discussions on several occasions, it is mentioned whether it is important for directors to have certain competences or certain skills. Well, my people, we all live in some cities, municipalities that have more or less elementary and secondary schools, and we go to some other neighbouring municipalities and towns that also have primary and secondary schools, and we are aware that unfortunately some schools that have good principals, quality directors, and I would say that it is a happiness for these communities and an exception unfortunately in Croatia and some schools and directors have such that today someone mentioned where ceilings fall, and some schools where our children have a whole range of extracurricular activities, involved in working with civil society, the principals are competing school for European projects, schools are expanding, going to one shift. So listen, who's got to do this if they don't want the principal. In order for the director to do so, he must have more competence than is required so far. And when my colleague Bunjac talks about our teachers and teachers being good teachers and teachers, which is probably right in 90% of cases, I'm afraid that he imagines our school and the principals of our schools at some time there from the beginning of the 20th century when it could have been the way he says, but today with all these challenges that we have to deal with especially in education, especially regarding young people, especially the equal chances of all our young people, all of our children going to schools suitable for the 21st century, then these directors and those people who run those schools must be competent for the 21st century. So I don't think there's any doubt about it, even though thinking about this subject, you're making a note of this subject, I've been talking to an old principal who's been retired for a very long time, who's mentioned to me that somewhere in the '90s there's been attempts to introduce non-license but to introduce some kind of expert exam for directors. So these years in the early 1990s or half of the 1990s, it started, and he was on that exam and he passed that exam, but with that whole story, you know why. Because then the principals who had to pass the exam had unfortunately failed to pass it. I don't know, and we can't predict what's going to happen in the perspective when it's being introduced because I'm still hoping to do that licensing. However, we must move into this process because we must look into the truth. We simply don't have equal qualified people all over the country in more than a thousand and some schools, we don't have equal qualified people for our job, which means that we put our children depending on where they live in a completely different position, the starting position that the school program works in a standardised way. Here, and my appeal is, I'm not going to open up any political conflicts or call anyone personal but I'm appealing let's not break the standards, what we are, the flyer where we've already put it. We accept the possibility we have, which is to give ourselves a new deadline. It's not the first time in the Parliament that's happened, and it wouldn't be the first time we've accepted something like that. And let's give ourselves that two or three-year-old deadline as the men of the profession say we should spend it. Here, I appeal to you in that sense as a party, as a club we'll give the amendment and here's an appeal if it's possible for that amendment to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28110	Thank you very much. We also have here on your replica display. She's the first one to represent Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28111	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Turina-Đuric, I agree with you. Some processes should be run anyway. Perhaps it is true that it would be much better for the law to write a deadline for this process or for which this process will be stopped. However, what is important is to re-emphasis and say. You mentioned different schools here, different material conditions. As long as we have school boards like this, they're licenses, I assure you. Politics, you said yourself in the debate that you wanted to rule out politics, that's impossible. Do you really not think that certain material conditions are the result of political relations? The principal is also in charge of professional leadership except for the management of the school. There are a number of parents involved in this part of the various projects, which these projects are implemented, which are very successful, but unfortunately this is not seen on the school facade. So I'm standing by that position the principal is primarily a professional head of school. My colleague Boban said he needs to know the Public Procurement Act. He needs to know this. He also has a secretary of his own. And the mayor of the municipality needs to know these same laws, he doesn't have to go through that training. We won't get anything if we introduce the director's license either by formal, or by informal education. If we leave a system like this where the founder with his three members plus one member of the Board of Parents who can't and I don't know why it stands in the law, I don't know if it's in accordance with the Constitution. I'm saying, he can't be a school employee, and I'm stressing again he could have seven kids at that school. Therefore, such restrictive measures in the very law concerning the election of a director, regardless of what kind of knowledge he had, will not make progress. Because who will evaluate at the end and his competences, his knowledge. Again, a school board where only one member can attend that session and never again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28112	Thank you. The distinguished Nada Turina Đuric will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28113	Comrade Sagar, I already said that in the debate. I haven't even been able to discuss the intensity of getting into some kind of politics on this subject. I think this topic definitely needs to be avoided, so I'm going to try to avoid you and your question, even though it actually directly calls and calls for me to make myself known in the replica. Look, I come from a county where mostly I'd say one political option has power. And if we translate it into having an impact on the director's choice, it probably does. But I'll also tell you that if you look through that same political option and compare those directors from that same political option that there are drastic differences between them, which means that in fact, whether someone is politically colored or chosen ultimately doesn't really depend. But his competences are certainly yes. Now, how do you solve it rather than one such procedure proposed within this strategy, that is, this law. I don't know which plastic way to answer your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28114	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished MPs Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28115	Thank you very much, colleague Turina Đuric. In your presentation, you mentioned an example from history when the Republic of Croatia began with an attempt to verify, i.e. the examination of certain competences for the exercise of the Director's duties, and it is interesting that it came from the conclusion that the majority of respondents did not satisfy the set parameters. Probably in one section of the expert public, and right now there's fear, fear is the devil. Fear of change, fear of something new, fear of actually uncertainty in which direction licensing could lead. However, I think that it is a national interest and that we must not give up setting high standards that we will expect from all those who want to take on such responsible places as managing the most important institutions for the future of the development of the Republic of Croatia, which are our educational institutions. And I agree with you when you say we could have avoided a bit of a political debate here. I couldn't agree more, we could have done it in a way that the government hadn't given up its first draft to go to public counseling, to extend the deadline until 2021. Today we could, and also on the board thematically before that, open a constructive one, if there is already a consensus on the need to cultivate and set high standards, we could also use the board and this session today to discuss what has been done, and it has been done in these two years. How much longer do we need to do for what we have to do, agree here, perhaps somewhere in the middle between our proposal 2019 and your first 2021, but never give up. And we should have set a deadline within which we expect our country to start setting and applying high standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28116	Thank you. The distinguished representative Turina-Djuric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28117	My fellow Glasovac, first of all, to apologize to you, or to my colleagues from the SDP, since there was a united debate, I did not stress anything about your bill, but I hope it is understood from my discussion. And I think I must especially commend you and your club that you are in good time I would say that there will be a problem and that there will be a problem with that legal vacuum that has come due to the deadlines set by law and the election of directors under that law. So we're absolutely here on the same track. Oh, no? So, according to us, we need to keep the standards and how much time it takes for us to do so, or for the ministry to do so, to sit down, to agree and to support that deadline that the ministry itself has set, so I would even say to the ministry just for the period in which it will do so, of course, within four years, within the mandate, no more than that, and we will be very happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28118	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. We will go with individual debates until 13:30 and then we will have a break and then continue after that with individual discussions and after the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, just so we know the course of today's session. The first one will be held in an individual debate by the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28119	Thank you, dear Vice President. We have here two draft laws on the same problem. So, back in 2008, it was the Government of Mr. Sanader and set a single task to set standards for primary and secondary school principals, meaning that a single licensing procedure could be established after which it could decide who these people could be principals of secondary and primary schools. The job was not finished by the government of Ivo Sanader, the government of Zoran Milanovic did not finish, the government of Oreskovic did not have to talk about it, and the only thing it managed to do was abolish President Mesic's office, nothing else. And now we have a new government. We have one task that we all agreed to do, all but colleagues of the Bunjac today, but I guess that's why he had countless replicas because he only doesn't understand, he doesn't fully understand that this is something that needs to be done, that we need to introduce standards for principals of primary and secondary schools because on the contrary, we actually have political decision-making. And the question is whether we are now for political decision-making or for standardisation. It is commendable that both political options agree that standards should be introduced. The job wasn't done. Now we can discuss why it wasn't done and who's more guilty, I think such a debate is pointless. Business is neither simple nor easy. Could it have been done? He probably could have. Why not? And it's not for objective and subjective reasons. But is it supposed to be done? He needs to be done. The SDP club proposes a period of one year. Let's set a deadline by January 1, 2018. If the government had proposed another deadline, I would have suggested to my club that we withdraw our proposal, if the ministry had told us no in 2018, we are little, look, it's been eight years since it was supposed to be done and it's not done, so we won't be able to do it in a year. Let's give us two years. If the government had said let's do it by the end of the term of office, here's what we do, so I guess in four years we can do that task I would have accepted it, and I would have appealed to my club to accept it as a very, very reasonable deadline. But what does the government offer? The government shuts down at all. It cannot break the obligation because the obligation stems from the law, the law stems from the strategy, should change the strategy first and then the law to end it. But the government says there is a commitment and when ad infinitum will be fulfilled. In other words, never. That's what in the government's proposal bothers and that's why the SDP went with its proposal. As you can see in the explanation of the SDP proposal, nor are we attacking the current government because of what it did not do, the only thing it could have done earlier and could have put this proposal forward because of these competitions that are now under way and that will have to be annulled. Okay, that might be a technical question. We're messing with people without any need. We expose them to unnecessary efforts. So this is about whether we're responsible or not. This is more a matter of conscience, of political conscience. Will we now, how will we behave in front of the problem that we recognize both exist? It exists because the work we did we didn't do, we didn't do it to each other. And now our political conscience tells us to set a deadline anyway, so let's say a lot, eight years enough. Let's say two more years, three years, we said a year, let's say we finally do what it takes in this society. Either we're going to be politically irresponsible or almost politically unconscious and say we're going to cancel every deadline. And the obligation, we don't care, the obligation is in the law, it can stand for another hundred years, we're not going to pass that rule, and we're going to choose the directors without that rule and without licensing. That's the only difference, that's the only difference. And that difference could have prevailed on the board, could have prevailed on the board that there was political will to have it prevailed. This is how the Government puts itself in a very, very uncomfortable position, I would say unnecessarily uncomfortable, which is that the whole public thinks that they want to play this obligation to license the principal of primary schools and that they want to use their entire mandate where they can use their political influence in the local environments and sets their directors, that it's not their goal, so it's not even the end of her mind that this problem can be solved by some time. What's it to the government? I don't know. Which is why in this way, which is why if he knows that there is a commitment, if he has any sincere intention of solving it can come and now, he can come and now during this debate, the minister can come and say here I have consulted with my assistants, with his deputy, with the prime minister I think two years would still be enough for us. Don't ask us for a year, I think in two years, in three years, here in three years, we'll solve this issue. I am convinced that our club would accept such a solution. They'd take it for granted on the board, and then they'd take it here on the tide. This is a problem that actually doesn't exist, it's artificially created, but it produces a problem much bigger than a problem of technical nature. It creates a feeling or belief that the government deliberately avoids licensing the principal of primary schools, so it wants to use its entire mandate to decide politically on the issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28120	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas, of course. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28121	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic only briefly. Not just you, but more during the entire debate, a line of political employment or the selection of directors has passed. Here I think my colleague Bunjac said in one segment that all forms a school board. It's a teaching council, a council of employees, so order of parents, so municipalities or cities and founders, there are five segments. I really should probably do that, and somewhere, I absolutely agree with that, but to generalise I'm convinced that over 70% of such cases really do not exist because it's very difficult to put those five components together so that simply a man can act politically as you or you may have some other experience. Let's just say I know that in the area where I come from, the principals are not members of any political party. There are three of them in my city, none of them are members of any political party. Now how is it possible that these five segments may be more skillful or within your club people are more skilled to work it out, but indeed within the frameworks of these five segments that make up school boards that choose directors that can simply happen. I really don't think that's a little bit of you, but during the whole debate, it's not clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28122	Thank you. The honourable representative Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28123	In truth, I tried not to insult anyone. So we have to agree that local self-government, local self-government bodies have influence, have a certain impact on the composition of the board. Whether he's determined or not, whether he's being abused or not, somewhere he's likely to be. Maybe in most cases I don't, I don't know. But is it good in the idea to avoid everyone accepting that politics deals with it? I personally think so. That we should all make a common effort to avoid it, even the slightest chance if it exists. What's wrong with licensing, what's wrong with that? It is carried out by an independent body, see if a man is capable, whether he has additional skills to do so because indeed not all directors are the same, indeed have some who improve their schools, have some who do not improve and water as they have inherited, perhaps some vice versa, so that we try to fix this situation together and get the policy out of it. And I have for the Ministry a word of advice that has nothing to do with your reply. If you haven't already been able to make up a deadline, here I suggest the Minister prescribes our solution is skillful in copying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28124	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stazic, you said that the fact that previous governments did not do the job they had done through the 2008 law is true. But one important difference in this debate, when we are discussing these amendments and the additions of the law compared to all the other discussions in which the deadlines have been extended in this House three times, is that this is the first time the job has been started and it needs to be completed. I no longer understand why at this very moment when the job is started, when 70% is finished, why at the moment we have decided to delete that deadline and to give up our obligation to society, to schools, to say to ourselves, let the government say OK, we will end it by the end of our term. The government could say -- look, we think your SDP proposal is unrealistic, that two years are not enough. Personally, I think they are, but I can understand that the best possible and most detailed business would be done, I think four years is enough for that, and that the first draft you put in public debate in 2021 could have remained. Why isn't that? Why is it that at the moment when the job was started, we gave up the deadline, and all these years we've gone through it even though it wasn't even started? I still don't have it, I didn't get the answer, and I can't figure it out. I think it's bad and it's not good and we wouldn't lose anything by defining the deadline and getting a lot and doing a lot for the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28126	The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28127	It's just not an incredible shame to throw in the trash a huge job that's been done at 70 percent. Well, if 7% were made, then man would say, "Come on, there's no point in trying." But 70% of one big job was done. And now it takes 30 and we're not petty and we're not saying you have to do it now within six months. We are not petty, but responsible for this society, according to our work, to the citizens who chose us, to those children, to the students. And we invite you to reason. Give the government's amendment some deadlines, some say, this is what we show the will to finish, to make 30% more. Up until now, 70 was made, something you did, something we did, it doesn't matter who did it. But here, we accept the obligation to finish it in that 30%. And if you make it an amendment to the government, we will accept this law, because it is for the benefit of this society. And every withdrawal from the deadline is at the expense of society, because it's going to be four years without you doing anything. And then who's going to keep doing something on this 70%? For if you do not have a term, then you will not lift your finger, for if you do not have a term, why should you?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28128	Thank you. The next is the replica of distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28129	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazić, we have already held a discussion in the section that could be called philosophizing about whether the article of the law that defines the deadline, the motivation of the administration by the minister, the secretary of state, and downsizing that something is working or not, and the experience is now saying that such articles that have motivated them since 2008, until 2017 were not enough to motivate them to do something. And the Priory should now create doubts that they do not know what their job is, that they must ignore that they received 2 ways a month ago in which they can solve something and that their laziness, uninterestedness without any deadline in the article simply leads them to forget that they have no more obligations and that they simply have to give up what is simply not true. We, in the ruling majority that we have proposed to the government, presented by Mr Plenkovic, put his minister, secretary of state, assistants and others who may be directors tomorrow, argue that they will do so without writing to them when and by what time because this requires the seriousness of those who have taken the job that has not been confirmed so far. We have changes to the same law eight times. We haven't had this kind of discussion. In 2009, we changed, in 2010 twice, in 2011, once, in 2012, twice the same law, in 2013, here again in 2017 we have I think the eighth or ninth amendment of that same law and nothing was Minister Jovanovic and Mrs. Glasovac motivated to finish the job in time, but they left it unfinished and left it to someone else. And now we're philosophizing whether my date or year is motivated by whether I'm going to work as a minister or not. Of course it's my job to work. Why is he doubting a Priory only some years or dates?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28130	Thank you. The honourable representative Nenad Stazic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28131	Dear fellow, I do not understand your skill. You say this, we guarantee, we guarantee we'll do this job, and the proof of that is that we cancel the deadline. This would be about as if you said – we are removing the time limit for discussion because it will motivate MPs to speak less – that is the logic. I'm sorry, that's the logic you're using. I'm sorry, it's totally incomprehensible if you really, if you really promise, and I'm inclined to believe that you're seriously going to do this. Write it down by the end of our term.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28132	Let's not get off the bench, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28133	In 2021, but don't say that you've abolished the deadline to prove that you're much more serious about doing something, so people will laugh at you. So don't really make fun of the man people make fun of.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28134	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28135	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! So, it's already said a lot about this problem in the debate we had in clubs I'd like to point out once again because I think it's very important and that in everything and in school we should think strategically and comprehensively. Unfortunately, most of it has not been the case so far, and not only when we talk about school but when we talk about the simple fact where we see Croatia by 2020 or by 2050, where we see it in the European Union, where we see it in Europe, where we see it in the global world, where we see it economically, educationally, however you want. Why am I talking about this? When we have a clear goal, when we have the end of the road, when we see what we want to achieve, then it is much easier for us to take measures and work towards that goal, and then it does not matter who is the authorities in the sense that certain final goals will be achieved, or that they will be dealt with. We will always differ in thinking about how to achieve that goal, how to reach it, but it is important that we all have a common goal. I think that our common goal should be a functional education system, that our common goal should be a functional school, that our common goal should be to be a satisfactory teacher and that our common goal should be a motivated student who will eventually be a responsible citizen, who will eventually successfully perform on the labour market and who will eventually gain all the knowledge and skills he needs. I agree with colleagues and colleagues who have previously said that education is primarily a strategic policy, that education should also be important in our economic path, or economic vision, for what we want to educate people and how. The people who run the facilities, so here we talk about primary school and high school, there's nothing less important. Why am I saying that? Again because of what I said at the beginning. If our goal is a functional school, a satisfied teacher and a motivated student there is a role, I won't say this time, management at school but those people who run those institutions are extremely important. The role of the principal isn't just because a colleague of Bunjac used to say he knew every student, every parent. That part of the burden, for example, is taken over by professional services, educators, defecologists, psychologists, and teachers themselves who work with students, so classmates. But what is much more important, at least in my opinion, in the work of the director is to organise work in a particular institution, distribute tasks and eventually lead the entire institution. We have had opportunities to hear that in many institutions the working conditions are extremely bad for both students and teachers. And unfortunately, I have witnessed it myself through my professional work that the conditions in certain school facilities are, therefore, physically very bad. It wasn't always the director's fault, but it's the director who has to be the person or director who has to be the person who's gonna be proactive and actively looking for solutions if they're facing them. What am I saying? The director there often has to be a mediator between collectives, between parents, between students and founders. So whether it's a big city, whether it's a county, whether it's a ministry that's not the founder but that's the finance. In the county or large cities that are the founders of their primary and secondary schools, although secondary schools are only counties, so it is up to them to deploy funds that come from the ministry to set priorities etc. And there's a role and a director that's extremely important to fight for his school but also to organize work in it. That's why I think the director of a particular institution is a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of an atypical interest if we talk about the directors of such institutions as to the rule of the person coming from the system, so teachers, teachers, teachers, and I think they should be, by the way, the more special activity and without experience in direct work with the students, in direct education-educated work, you often can't even figure out what this school is. School isn't just a building, finance, students and teachers, school is a lot more than that. In school children spend as much time as their teachers and stimulating environment, stimulating school, good atmosphere is just as important as a smart plate and a ceiling that does not leak as functional heating. That is why, and because of these challenges that people who take responsibility to run institutions meet, I think it is very important to help them to be in this business as well as to give better but also more responsibility to the founders as well as to the collective and parents in their participation in school life. The best schools I've ever worked in are the ones where parents were actively involved with teachers and together with the school's leadership in the work and life of the school. When they wanted to come to school, they also wanted to learn sometimes with their child but also to give him a good example, when we used to look like classrooms together because the school must be not only an educational institution but also a educational institution and I'm afraid that by accessing and neglecting education, education is becoming more and more and more of an educational institution. As far as I'm familiar with the Faculty of Teachers in Zagreb has had its own time, I don't know if it still has, I haven't been able to find the data, but he had a specialist post-graduate management study in school. If we talk about education or at least professional training of people who take on this responsible task, I think it may be one of the ways to go. In any case, when we talk about this particular case of licensing of directors, we've taken a certain goal or put ourselves before ourselves long ago in 2006 if I'm not mistaken and I think it's a bad message that we're giving up at all. Here, colleague Stazic said earlier and fellow Voter is not the problem that we are prolonging it. I mean, it's a problem. We should have done it before, but it's clear that we're not the preconditions we should have made we didn't achieve them. However, by erasing that provision from the law, we have not solved anything. The problem remains. The questions remain. The solutions are still gone. Is there going to be a license or not? How do we even see school management or the leadership of school institutions? We still don't know. Since the fate of the curricula reform is still unclear, at least to me, we don't even know where we want to go with our school or school system, so it remains many, many unknowns. And I'd like to finish with the next one. Here we heard yesterday, and the prime minister called for several times, and for this speaker, some HDZ colleagues were also calling, so make your constructive proposals. Well, here we go. One of our proposals is now under discussion on the agenda of the legislative proposal that we referred to last year in the procedure. If it had been heard because our intensities were good, if there had been hearing today they wouldn't have discussed it. This would've been a prolonged one. Maybe we could discuss assistants in class. I believe there wouldn't be much debate here because we all agree on that as a rule. We suggest, we continue to propose and don't think that if anything comes from this side of the pay phone that it's bad, that the intensity is bad. I say we differ sometimes in the methods that we want to reach the goal, but our goal must always be the same. And in this case, it's a quality education for our children and a quality system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28136	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas as usual. The first is the distinguished representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28137	Thank you very much. You're right about your colleague Hajdukovic when you claim that there are people who do excellent work in the classroom, but maybe as directors they're not doing well. They simply lack certain competences that would give them extra added value to sovereignly rule over all that is expected of them. And we have to admit that the demand is not very small and that there are more and more. Now, we have four categories. We have those bright examples amongst the directors who are professional in this section have some kind of natural already in the control room and we can say for them that they, who want, want and work. We have another category of those who wouldn't know. We have a third category of people who wouldn't know, but they won't. And the fourth category of those who don't know, they don't care and they won't. Now, what do we have to secure? We can't leave it to the case. We need those who would and do not know through the licensing process, through programs that we will see if they will conduct higher schools, State School for Public Administration or someone third, who will give them competencies where they will acquire them, and then the National Centre for External Education will evaluate it, monitor and license and relicate them. We have to do everything to give people who really want to know, to give them that knowledge but also to set up a mechanism for those who know and will not and will not want to learn and will not be able to follow them and prevent them from achieving their first mandate or through evaluation and monitoring when we see that they have not met the standards to prevent them from continuing to run schools below standards, that is the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28138	Thank you. The honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues agree. I'd even point out that other thing. Permanent improvement in the education system is extremely important. When you start your teaching, teaching, teaching career 35 years after that many things change in science, in the subject you teach, in the way you study, in the circumstances of the world, in the country, etc. Without continuous training, standards simply cannot be followed, and these directors are no exception. I would, you've divided a few categories of people who aspirate, unaccompanied essentially by directors. I'd say there's two sets of reasons why someone's good or why someone's bad. One reason is objective, the other is unobstructive. Inexplicable are personal characteristics, affinities, etc. and some just don't have it in them for working with people to lead, etc. And they're objective ones that we can influence, and that's what you're talking about. It's a provision of knowledge, skills and support to the people who run these institutions. Many of the principals don't become lawyers. They lack that knowledge. They have no financial knowledge, no knowledge of the means to run an institution that is extremely important to them. Some of them are doing great, we have as you've said great examples, but unfortunately, we've got the bad ones. The intensity of this is exactly what you do you keep in the system, encourage, and those who do wrong replace those who will do it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28140	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28141	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope this time you don't throw me out after my or during my replica. I'd like to say, I've listened to Mr. Hajdukovic carefully and I've come to a number of conclusions, and the key is that HDZs who have been complaining all along that we're demagogues, populists, that we don't have concrete proposals, that we don't respect the law, what are they doing? We have a situation with the shipping of police officers who, the law has said that since this year they have the right to these severances. And then what does HDZ do?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28142	I'm afraid I'm still gonna have to intervene. You're talking about cops, and you don't know because you just walked into the gym right now, we're talking about two laws, amending the Law on Education and Education in primary and high school, cops in primary school as far as I know they don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28143	Mr. Reiner, my mother is a doctor of medicine, my father is an engineer of construction and has a certain width and to point out the final thought sometimes I have to do a little digression.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28144	Don't do too much dyspression, please. Let's concentrate on the subject, just like all the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28145	But sir, it's not possible to say the thought if I stick to the subject closely. You understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28146	Everyone else is sticking to the subject, I don't know why it's hard for you and why we have to talk about cops now and not about education and education in primary and high school. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28147	But, sir, if you'd let me speak, I'd have already finished what I wanted to say about the cops.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28148	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28149	Thank you. So instead of making severances to cops, what's done is changed the law. Instead of creating that licensing concept, that provision of the law is abolished. And finally, we see that the laws in this country are of no value and those who don't respect them instead of bearing responsibility for moral, political, criminal and legal what they do change the law, adapt it to themselves. It's a HDZ model, a model of people who predispose us not to follow the law. Well, the easiest way to do that is to make it easier for the HDZ gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28150	The honourable representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28151	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, colleague Pernar, for the replica and for the discussion. You said it right, they say we're not constructive. Here I have now listed in the agenda six legislative proposals where the opposition party's proposings are including now this subject of debate. So it's not true that we don't offer our visions and our solutions but for dialogue it takes two. And of course we need to talk and we need to talk and maybe some model we're really offering is better or more sustainable than what the current position is offering and vice versa. But convince me that's the way it is and you won't convince me if we don't talk. And we're back to the one that's our ultimate goal? If we have a clear goal, then we can discuss how to get to it but until we have a goal, we don't know what we're doing. Now we wipe this squad out of the law, it will no longer physically exist in the law, whether it will come back, why no one knows. I'm afraid if we delete it now and the will of the majority exists that we want it never to come back to the law and that we're actually going to have a good concept that we've lost irrevocably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28152	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna take a break by 3:00 and then we're gonna continue the individual debate on this point. Thank you. It's 13,22 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28153	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.02 HOURS]] We continue with individual debates. Independent representative, distinguished colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28154	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! So here's what I'm going to try to do in this brief debate, look at three points or three areas that I think are very important and related to this topic that we're discussing today. First of all, I would like to say that if we exclude the health system from our very nature, the system of education and public system in which there are clear protocols, there is a lot of administration, that is, colleagues and colleagues who are in that system, whether they are or will be known, and that system is often the time that we have to spend with the administration, and part of the time that we could spend in direct work, educational and educational work. As far as the law is concerned he's what I'm gonna support him for I said for that reason that otherwise he can't even be at this point. Therefore, not all advances necessary and necessary for the licensing system to be revived have been made. What has already been said several times in the debate and I fully agree with it, the director is asked for a lot of competences, a lot of knowledge, so other than those of his expertise, knowledge is therefore needed and knowledge related to the business leadership of the school. And in that sense, a licence which I hope will be such a licence in the future when, of course, everything that precedes it will have a positive step. What someone mentioned here I was a little bit critical in my replicas when I talked about meddling politics in the system, of course not thinking that the directors who were elected and there was a political way that they were bad directors. So, just finding that politics has an impact and thus selects those directors who believe that at that time it is more meaningful or more politically beneficial to them. So, when we talk about the director's licenses, what should certainly be taken into account in the future is that it is carried out by the ministry through the agency, and I don't know how much I've realized from this proposal so far, the expert exam is considered to be the first license, and I don't know whether it's worth it for the director's first time, so it would be a little unusual, and it's actually legally impossible, given that in the law in many European Union countries, and in our five years of direct work in the education system so that we can even run for director plus those three years, it means a total of eight years of internships. And it's more or less in a lot of countries. Some countries have like the Netherlands I say, they've decided, they have to be the head of the profession and they just have a school where people go to school for the principal. Slovenia's second model, it's also quite a strict model, they've dealt with it differently. How we're going to deal with this is only going to see because it's important that if we're already running such a license that it finally benefits not only the principal who's going to pass it, but also the schools and then the system as a whole. We can't close our eyes that our teachers live let's say in difficult conditions and work and live in difficult conditions, teachers' and teachers' salaries aren't great. We also had problems with a contract that was signed in 2009 on wage growth which was not respected. So someone here mentioned it and it's safe to be a teacher and the professor isn't interested in me. Being a teacher and a professor is an invitation and people are working with enthusiasm, they will work people and again with enthusiasm regardless of how much state they can pay for, but we must not forget that all those people who are teachers and teachers will be directors, so they will be directors, for some time they will be back as teachers and teachers, and in this sense their professional training that are being implemented today and which schools today must be taken into account and when licensing that they will not happen that something special they have to do other than these knowledge that is important and related to European funds, related, some colleagues here have mentioned, and for the very knowledge of legal frameworks especially in the field of public procurement, in the field of those knowledge where the director would not come in a position to do something that is not in accordance with the law, because in practice someone also said from fellow colleagues and colleagues that some schools are staging, because some schools are really true, it has to go to the public institutions, and to have always have been able to have been able to do so when they have to have to have access to the local institutions. And now to go back to what hurts me that I keep saying, which is school management. We must consider school committees independently now and if they are politically colored, but they must have a function of some kind at school. So, they have to take part of their responsibility if we have already said that we are going to exclude that the House cannot choose the Director alone because according to these legal provisions, even from the order of the parents. One representative is elected from the board of parents, in the line of parents. It can't be if he's an employee of the school, but then let's give these people space to get as much influence on school policy as possible, because this is not a good solution. The founder in this case, the county elects three members of the school board in my municipality. They can be from other units of local self-government and what they actually care about my school. Here's what I'm saying very harshly. Of course I don't think there are people who don't care about anything. But it would be better to include a local self-government unit. She doesn't have the fiscal capacity to implement what the county implements. But give her at least a chance to get on the municipal council, and it was before the case, let the municipal council decide which people should sit on the school board, so let these people get the most involved in that school, let them help the principal to just make progress. Building a sports gym isn't an easy job. It's a very difficult job. There needs help and ministries, and regional self-government, and then the municipalities or cities themselves to make such a single project. He's got kids today. My colleague, who retired a year ago – two whole lifetimes of her life taught her children body culture under the clear sky. That's just the situation. And for the end. I would just like to point out once again that the school system is a serious system and should not be played with. Whenever it comes to changes in the educational system, it always happens somewhat slowly. Don’t be surprised because according to some estimates, the world changes ten times, but I’m a school system, perhaps more than that, because even now, even though we’re in the 21st century, many teachers have a basic tool of record and chalk. But that doesn't mean it's bad. I'm one of those guys who thinks it doesn't have to be bad. A well-known architect in Zagreb said the difference between architecture today and sometimes, says: “We used to draw hand, so we had more time to think. Today we draw with advanced tools, less time to think." It may be, there may be children who will not know how to add up tomorrow to say this on foot, manually because of the great technology we are introducing. But on the other hand, we need to introduce smart records and everything that's advanced today, and not to neglect that human part, the educational part, because it actually does school, and it does -- I would call the school a sanctuary -- that's what the spirit of the school does, and in that sense, if we succeed through this licensing, and later and through proper school management, we've done a lot. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28155	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Nicole Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28156	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Sagar, you'd agree with most of what you said. We are often here especially to colleagues from the opposition full of the mouth of curricular reform as if that is the only problem in Croatian education. I was a teacher at school and I know that what you're talking about, and that's the enthusiasm of teachers and teachers is what our education is about. We ourselves had to copy additional materials. We ourselves had to copy students' tests. We didn't even have a projector in the classroom. Our principals couldn't even send us to an extra education because there's no money for that. And then what are we talking about? These are some basic conditions without which there is no reform of education. And of course, what you're talking about means teachers' salaries, and that's something that we all need to insist on and advocate together and opposition, and ruling that this government invests more in science and education in the future. Besides, I agree with you when you talk about school committees in one section. You mentioned that local self-government units should be involved. Now, that's the question of what would that lead to? I saw it as soon as you mentioned it to your county colleagues here who the HDZ's had raised their replicas. So they want to keep their own influence. If it came under the hands of local leaders, they'd have the same situation, and local leaders would wonder who would work at school and who wouldn't work at school. I think there must be some criteria. There's no criteria. There are no criteria for school employment at all. You don't see how much work is ahead of you, so we've got a colleague waiting for a job at 9, 10, 11 years. I can't even get a chance to pass a professional exam. So that's the problem. If the local sheriff re-determined, whether it's the mayor or the mayor or the captain, we'll have the same situation again. So we need to see if there are any criteria for employment in educational institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28157	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmoe, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28158	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed colleague of Grmoya, therefore, is the fact that we can see from day to day that the number of children in schools is decreasing. The truth increases the number of teachers. Of course, there are foreign languages and religious teachings in schools. So we have today when we look at statistics we have good conditions in schools. We have a number of teachers on fewer children, and that is, even in Western countries, we are going to step up with Western countries on this issue. I fully agree with you that the work of teachers and teachers is often difficult to pay. So there are people, teachers, most teachers who do their job worth doing, and this job is here we can say it openly underpaid. So, when I talk about school boards, you know, I'm just saying it for a reason, but even if it seems to be political reasons, and I'm saying more for human reasons because the teacher feels hurt. Well, he can't choose his own principal. That's what I'm talking about. Well, it's not that the teachers of fools can't choose a principal in the chamber, so let it be, in my opinion, two members of the teacher's class, let him be the employee, in fact, two members of all the school members, so to speak, let two members give parents, so that parents and teachers decide together who will manage the school where their children go. And this silly, unusual provision that she can't be a parent if she's an employee. Why can't it be? Well, God forbid our teachers have children together for three classes of school, so why don't they also be in front of the Board of Parents. I think we should think about it, I apologize for this word "fooly", I didn't think it was silly who put it on, but we just have to go back to the base, everything goes from down there, out of that town, out of that school, and that's where we have to make sure that when we're talking about decentralisation. It's been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28159	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. They say, "Let him throw away a stone that has no sin." Then you are not the only ones who exceed the time. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Marko Vučetic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28160	Here's my colleague, Žagar, I must commend your exposure because it has managed to reconcile what is pre-category and traditional in school but also in life and in this pre-category or what is not well-formed yet, which is close to art or our concern or feelings resulting in both child care and education system. I believe that this is the reason for these heated and long debates, but I hope that these discussions will also lead to a traditional development, or that we will stop looking at directors and licensing in the form of politics and increasingly in the form of education policies. If the Ministry of Education is watching, it's not education, it's the ministry, it's a political body. However, the school principal should conduct educational policies. What is breaking us today is this van impact of local policies on the selection of directors and directors at the time is not participants in the educational process but becoming evil twins of these very political and creations and being creative themselves so that I would commend this debate under that view if I understood it well, which is that licensing is necessary, that we need professional directors, that we need healthy policies and when it comes to education that healthy policies are not local, they are not educational policies, but only policies that come from our trends of what kind of citizens we need, because if they are not policies that are directed towards citizens then instead of education and education we have, we are entering the area of breeding of citizens and that is the absence of freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28161	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Vučetić. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28162	Dear colleague Vučetic! Thank you for your commendation. What's important and I haven't arrived in the last replica and I'm trying to add often I'm talking about decentralisation in the state, and it's a kind of decentralisation to leave more freedom to certain schools or to all schools to decide I'm not going to tell about the programs themselves, but in the frameworks set by the ministry, let's keep it that way but what I still want to emphasize and that's the school's head to the inside, so he's a business and professional head of school, but he has to have to have to express himself and sort of his rating to the outside, he represents the school. School principals, when you have any gathering, any ceremony comes the principal and everyone watches the school through that principal. Let's give him a little more dignity, more, yes, well, if politics appoints him, but that politics doesn't have to beat him at every step, so that he's the headmaster and he's got some kind of freedom and then he's doing what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28163	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28164	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's today we had a chance to hear a lot of things. I would like to say that we are actually witnessing that even today many directors are actually very good at work in their jobs and have shown exceptional success and that, in difficult conditions, there is much that can be achieved, so with very small funds and schools, there is much that can be restored, that fellow teachers can be sent to vocational training, work quality with children and motivate teachers to work with children, to go to competitions, to achieve extraordinary results in competitions. However, I am sorry that there has been much more talk here today about how directors have not said so far have been incompetent to this duty and more or less we have spoken and could be heard more in a negative than in a positive context. What I would point out is that school principals do not have to possess special qualifications in terms of many skills such as public procurement because if they are carrying out some high value public procurement, they must have a licensed person to do so. Therefore, they must have all these knowledge in one I would say to the superficial threshold because they do not need to be experts on this or expect it because they have to deal with many different areas and it would really be too much to expect to be experts in all these areas, but as far as their knowledge is concerned and licensing in this respect would be most important for me that they are professional in the field of education and all these other areas mean that they have some personal quality of the manager. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28165	I thank my esteemed colleague Maria Jelkovac for her replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28166	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I fully agree with you here. Once again, it should be pointed out that the principal is a professional head of school. We also see by law he analyzes the work of teachers. How's he gonna analyze it? So it has to be enough, it has to be in that section and more professional in pedagogical and other knowledge in order to be able to value the work of a single teacher when it comes to his class. The truth is that directors first and foremost need to have a good human relationship with both teachers and their relationship with teachers. But the principal is not to forget the responsibility for the work of the school. So he's the one representing the school who's responsible for her work. In that sense, a license doesn't necessarily have to be a bad thing. So let it be carried out here in law that was the biggest remark not made until this item was deleted. But in my opinion he can go back to the moment when we make these advances that we know exactly what we want, who will conduct education, who will pay I think that the ministry someone mentioned that there is an insurance fund that could be implemented because it really is a problem if and there are cases in schools believe people want to go to professional training through their assets, and they can't, they can't, they can't just get paid. I think the founder pays those costs as far as I know. And if there's no money, people just don't go, and we're like a country in very, very, very lower part of the European countries when we compare in lifelong learning, and that's lifelong learning. So the new technologies are coming. People at school have to perfect themselves all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28167	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. Next to the replica came the esteemed colleague Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sagar, I could tell you like this, different people, different areas, different environments, different opinions, different experiences, and then here they are. What I think is a common denominator of all school management in Croatia is wrong and definitely needs to be seen not only through licenses. Prescribing norms that we know in advance that we won't implement. We're prone to it. That's what we do all the time. We always prescribe something, and then we don't do it and paralyze ourselves. But you have said a very precise sentence, and one of the directors is more capable, so they are able, so they are more advanced, so they do better, and others are not. Then you pulled this same part of the school board, the way you chose the director's appointment. Now, there's no way I can agree with you, because I have 7 schools in Križevci, 7 principals – 4 elementary and 3rd grade. I don't think any of the principals are members of any party, none of them. Three directors were definitely elected without any influence or will of local politics. We didn't even know he was elected. Because it's, it's founding rights, it's the founder's responsibility? So let's get rid of the responsibility of local self-government. Let's get her out of founding rights so she won't have any representatives inside and no problem. Until something at school is wrong and wrong, who's to blame? Local leader. I hear the word sheriffs here. Gentlemen, I repeated that in Parliament's 7th session, the sheriff is a positive term. Most of the sheriff's counter is a bandit, and don't say it that way. You speak in the right light so that definitely local self-government, the founder is totally deposed here and put in a totally wrong position.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28169	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Hrg, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Hrg, of course I didn't tell the sheriff, didn't you think of me and I was the head of the community myself, so I never felt like a sheriff. And I think it's wrong to think that the mayors of the county are sheriffs because one said handsomely – if I knew what I was responsible for as head of the municipality I would never run for office. Many officials today are not aware of what they are responsible for. I believe that it is also the case with the principals when they assume that duty they may not even be aware of what they are responsible for inside the school. Of course I agree with you that there are environments and there are schools that the selection of directors has passed as it has passed, so politics has not been involved. There are those and where it is. But again, I point out when we talk about school boards you say and you said that that's where I agree with you school management is not good. I solely consider it responsible for the school board. I don't think he's responsible when he starts working, but he's actually responsible at the very beginning when he chooses. It's my experience, and that's what I think. It doesn't mean that these people are unemployed or that they don't want to work, it's all a matter of motive. You come to a school where teachers, teachers with lots of enthusiasm, with a lot of passion. You actually if you manage to get that and that man who comes to the school board that also has that enthusiasm then we succeed. If not, then there are problems, various problems that someone here was talking about today, and even if they were setting up barriers to the principal so he can't even do what's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28171	I thank my colleague Sagar for his reply. The next call came from an esteemed colleague, Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Sagar, I've come forward as Grmoya says well when you kick in here and throw in a ball, you can't say, I think it's tragic for me that you tell me what cares about the county for school. That's a really tragic statement. No matter how many individuals here consider local sheriffs, but it's very interesting one thing, when a professor from school becomes mayor, then he's a jerk because all the mayors are fools under quotes as some criminals say, the sheriffs, and I don't know what they don't, they didn't just tell them that fascists are those mayors and mayors. And the professor when it becomes a bad thing, but when he's at school, he's a golden child. I'm a professor, too. We just have a problem with the school boards deciding too much and the school boards being so tragically composed. You know when one bad-ass director then he'll be the headmaster as long as he wants with a band like this. Because he chooses his friends from the House because he's the boss. I'm not going to tell the sheriff, but it's normal for him to pick the three team that suits him, and the parent as a parent and the question is the role of the parents on the school board. He's here in a conflict of interest no matter how much we can play, you know parents, we're all parents, it's important to all of us, the school is important, but a parent can't manage a school, that's my opinion, because then this parent and these three professors are holding that principal while he wants and no county, and no local government can do anything about it. We can talk about the criteria for the selection of directors so we increase it, we ask that he has a rector's prize, that he was 5.0 at college, that he had not 10 or 30 years of internships but let's not, let's not, we want young people, so let him have 3 years of internships, we can talk about it. We can talk about the technological surplus as it deploys. And here's my time, but I'll get back to you next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28173	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28174	Thank you. Dear fellow Sanader, I admit that I was exaggerating when I said that what county cares about schools, I wanted to be a little graphic because I wanted to stress that units of local self-government and in this case the municipalities where the founder of the county are excluded from this selection of members of the school board. Of course it's not so in practice, that the county doesn't care because the county has to worry about schools, just happens really then that county doesn't have enough money so that some schools don't have toilet paper, some schools don't have basic supplies, as I said this morning some don't have fuel to cut down the yard and in that sense county doesn't have to do that, the county representatives don't have to see it, they don't have to react. And of course, we're here to face arguments and now that you've said these arguments the truth is, here I am thinking about it now, I haven't thought about it that way, and that possibility exists. And in the end, we can still agree, however, that all systems make up people and everything depends on people. Blame the principal, then the troubles come. He can indeed blackmail his employees that they have to vote for him again, and his parents are afraid of him and then maybe he's one of the solutions for the ministry to take a bigger role since the ministry and finance the greatest work and wages and material rights but then we no longer have decentralisation and that's a new problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28175	I thank my esteemed colleague Sagar for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Josip Boris reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28176	Thank you very much. You've gone a little too far today, you've been doing it since morning, and you've been quite one-sided, and you've accused the Croatian Democratic Community itself of politically humanizing all over the school boards, and you've been saying it all day, which is simply not true because there are counties where SDP has its mayor or some other parties in which some other parties have their mayors and they use the right that gave them the law to name if they're founders of their members on school boards. And when they're named, they're not sheriffs or I don't know what they're using their legal rights. You've heard several times that most of them are not on any school board unless most of them are searched through their parents or by teachers. And the Priory to argue that all directors are politically appointed by me is quite too difficult because indeed here I come from the island of Rab, we have a primary school and a principal who is already there I don't know how many mandates she is in either party, she's not a politician, she's not a politician, she's never been in any political campaign and insult these people in a way that they're all politically placed is really below each level. There is a law, the system works, it may currently have a problem with implementing the law i.e. competitions in view of the provisions that have been in force so far and we will deal with it. This debate that you have extended to the level of clean policy is really unnecessary and ask the founders that there is no right, that I have nothing to say, that I have no right to suggest, that I have no right to suggest even my representatives inside lead to that part called anarchy and irresponsibility. On one side we have a story when we're talking here's an INA MOL with small control rights we want everything and here with no control rights again is everyone's fault, let's talk like that. But be impartial and speak as it is, not just accusing one party that she's politicized into the whole system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28177	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28178	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Boris, you referred to my morning replica where I said it but I did not tell all the directors that the Croatian Democratic Community chose. I have pointed out exclusively and said that this is about my county, I said about Virovitica-Podravska County because there is no secret that the Croatian Democratic Community in Virovitica-Podravska County is in power for a very long time, and in all municipalities and all cities. And I'm in that sense, and I'm telling you, politics has an impact again. And I have nothing to apologize for, I didn't say that the directors were unemployed, I even said now in the debate despite the fact that the vast majority of them are good directors and doing their job. What would be good is that policy is excluded from appointments, in fact, from setting up a director in such a way that it is exclusively a political criterion. That's what I think should be done. And when we talk about the Founder, I'll tell you in a vivid way. If the building of the school was built there in the 1970s, and it was built from a façade brick, then the law that we brought here to the Croatian Parliament made it into the hands of the county before us, then the county became the founder, and then on that facade brick we first brought to 12 cm of Styrofoam and then we boasted something we did. In this sense, I continue to argue that many of the schools that the counties have won in management have little to do with them because they have not been built or equipped, but of course now they care to lead them in such a way that they have enough money for those basic needs. If they fail, then they cannot accept your thesis that they are particularly concerned and that they are setting up people on the school board who will only decide who will be the headmaster of that school.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28179	I thank my esteemed colleague Sagar for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Tomislav Panenic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28180	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Žagar, I think that you have opened one topic which, especially all local self-government leaders, points to thinking about the school board of course and what they are making decisions about, which is the appointment of school principals and on the other hand we have mayors, mayors, local self-government leaders, now most share the same problem and this is a growing number of children in schools and how this problem comes to a solution. If we look from the very beginning, local self-government leaders are taking all measures that can increase the birth rate, encourage parents to a larger number of children so that eventually in those schools where it is a problem for the principals to organise school departments, teaching with a reduced number of children to be partners. And what do we come up with? We come to the moment when that child is involved with preschool and the law is clear, so it's organized by the municipality or city, it's not organised by the school, it's not organised by the county office for education. So we have this problem where co-operation has to be achieved and no matter what colleagues here from HDZ say and I personally and I know others have a problem that in the school board, for example, can't be present if it's not proposed by the founders' order, for example someone who's from another political option like I was. So, I can't take care of the kids in my community in a way that I can be present at school, that we share the problems that this school has, that what's the problem and these material costs that have collapsed really are here and we've personally bought toilet paper, we've been taking to school, we've been buying cleaning and taking to school, and in the end that the decision on the director has often been made by people who neither have qualifications that are prescribed nor can be competent to make decisions about the selection of directors, but were placed there exclusively politically, and then often the case that they haven't had any contact with children, with the problems of those children, the organisation of transportation and all the problems. Thus, the problem of the principal is sometimes much deeper.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28181	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28182	Dear fellow Panenić, therefore, the main problem is that children in schools are getting smaller, for us many district schools are empty or will be empty. What I have to be honest about is how to put it, and here's my colleague, Boric, in the last replica. Virovitica-Podravska County, despite my criticism of this choice of director is one of the few counties that has built very many schools, here I will say it honestly. The Croatian Democratic Community is in power in the county, there are lots of district schools, new schools, 28 here are my colleagues. So it's not a small number. But what he must again underline now, every honour to the county in that building but it is the county that again decides where we will be building schools, whether it will be in smaller areas of the school, and sometimes those schools that already exist because of what you are talking about because of their needs are simple and it is toilet paper. So there's always some kind of political decision in school management. Whether to find a model in this is certainly the highest responsibility in the ministry in which really school committees would be properly formed and completed the task being put on them and somehow it is just when you look at the school board's responsibilities or their powers first-point selection of directors and it seems to me that this is the most important function that things are now standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28183	I thank my esteemed colleague Sagar for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Žagar, you have raised an interesting question which may not be directly the subject of concrete amendments and additions to this law, however, well to discuss it, it is the role of action, so if you want the structure of the school boards. At some point in time, it seemed to me that in 2002 it began to decentralise the system of education of social care, health and fire and in that part of the country gave up a large part of its rights and declared units of local and regional self-government, founding schools. And then we had through history some changes in the structure of the school boards, so let's remember that there were nine of them, in those nine there were, most of them were representatives of the founders who, as direct representatives of the founders, strengthened more representatives of the state administration's office. Today, we have a situation that in most, I will appear to say, in most cases, the representatives of the teaching, teaching council, working council and parents, the council of parents who are, in some ways, on the one hand and the founder on the other hand, with parents very, very often the representatives of the parent council being a language on the scale, because representatives of the working council and representatives of the teacher or teacher council are obliged to represent the positions that were previously voted on by the Council. However, the fact is that the director cannot literally consume any more important authority without support from the school board starting with employment, he is responsible for the functioning of the school, but he can propose the best candidate. If he doesn't have the support of a representative on the school board, he can't really do anything. The same is true in the financial plan, in the final accounts, etc. I think we have a serious problem and that in some other perspective we have to really, the licenses are necessary here. Now whether these licences will mean full professionalisation by reducing the influence of politics and school boards or not is a question for the future I would say but very complex and significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28185	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice on the line. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've given me a chance to explain one more position. You have said very well here that this previous law of founding rights has been passed on to units of local self-government, regional self-government and cities, excuse me, so county and cities. I don't know, there's no case in my county, I don't know if there's a case in the Republic of Croatia that any of the municipalities are the founder of the school. I think it's a rare community that has such a possibility, in that sense I'm speaking. So maybe the HDZ colleagues didn't get the best of it. The municipality no longer has any authority over school, has a county. It doesn't have to mean anything. It could be in the county tomorrow, some SDP county in the HDZ municipality, but here's the political situation. So, if he's the head of the HDZ municipality, he doesn't have any authority over school, in the end he's a school in his municipality. In that sense, I say that it is not a good solution for the County Assembly to appoint three members, send me to the municipality of 3 members and say these represent your school. It's just a problem. And then this is what you're talking about, colleague Voter, because after all, the school curricula needs to be confirmed by the school board if I'm not mistaken? And what I think the curricula means is about and is about the direct functioning of the school and the direct relationship to the institutions around that school and who cares about Virovitica what school will do in Novi Bukovica. I mean, I say it harshly, but here's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28187	I thank my esteemed colleague Sagar for his reply. We have another replica after this debate. Dear colleague Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28188	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Žagar, your debate was really so sincere from the soul and it encouraged, it went beyond this topic it was true, but it raised a series of very important questions regardless of what in some of your findings I could not agree with. But I will help you respond to the replica of my colleague Sabina Vosovac. In Croatia, there are about 50 school founders, and local administrations are about 556. So somewhere around 500 administrations and leaders are not the founders of primary and secondary schools. It's mathematically about like this. Maybe something more, but it's around here somewhere. So, and we here all the time have been discussing how the influence of local sheriffs, leaders, this, the one on staffing, the influence in the selection of directors, and that's not true, because, therefore, of the seven members of the school council, four members of the direct jurisdiction, I would say so under the alleged signs of authority if the re-election of the director himself has a director, if it's about re-election of the director himself. Now, you said in one segment that it would be good if the founder had no right where the county is the founder but to leave it to the head of the municipality to have your own representative. And you have it, but you don't have most. You have one member in the school council. So, I think the founder really doesn't have jurisdiction or competence, unfortunately, but there's no financial assistance, so I believe in you and everyone else when the director comes to the municipality or a city that's not the founder that's going to help in a particular segment in the realization of certain projects. I primarily mean maintenance or procurement of certain means for the functioning of that facility. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28189	I thank my esteemed colleague, Blazen Boban, for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28190	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, colleague Boban, for giving me the opportunity to explain one more thing... perhaps more vividly. So, we have the Law on Elections in the municipal councils and mayors and mayors of municipalities and in this law quite rigorously states that it must be 6 months for the mayor to be in the area of residence and that a representative in the municipal council who will be elected must have a residence in that area. Now it's just a matter of value, do we think the municipal council is worth more than the school board or is the school board just a formality, now that's it. May it remain a provision, may the founder appoint three members but may they have a residence in the area of my municipality. I mean, you see, I'm saying it now the way I feel. I mean, I feel a little offended when I get out of Slatina to my school by a representative of the school board. I may have a problem, I don't know, but here's how I feel emotionally, and I just think that a legal solution in that sense needs to be determined. Otherwise, I completely agree with you on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28191	I thank my esteemed colleague Sagar for his reply. Following an individual debate, distinguished counterpart Josip Boris reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28192	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's what I'm saying about this bill of law and a united debate since we have two proposals. One is the government's proposal, and the other is the SDP Club's proposal, and it's been piling up all day about who's right and who's right. whether the date or years they would have put in the article as an obligation is a motivating factor to finally resolve the issue of licensing of primary and secondary school directors whose founders are from cities to counties. So here's a story that lasts since 2008, when such a provision has been introduced into the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools and since then we've changed the law I think here in 2009, 2010 twice, 2011 twice, 2012, twice, 13 and 14 and now at the beginning of the year we change the law with the announcement that once again the Law on Education and Education will be completely changed. And what do you conclude now after a whole day's debate? We have simply spread so much of the problem that we have now entered the decision-making sphere, the composition of the school boards, whether it is fair, whether it is politically justified, whether those who are founders may have majority rights or less rights, given who they may or may not appoint to the school board and, of course, that one story that needs to be solved one problem that appears becomes a political problem that we solve as a whole day and we probably won't solve it all will remain in their positions. Because when we look at the system, it's normal for the founder to finance the material costs that he has to provide certain conditions, obviously wants to have his rights. But the law told him here's what I'm talking about school committees you don't have most on the school board. And then what's coming? Let's go to the whole system. We've got school. We have a school board. We have a principal, teachers, professors, we have students. We have auxiliary staff – janitors, cooks, cleaning women, we have material costs, we have salaries. Who's responsible for what in this whole system and who's doing what? We can see the system's working. Kids are at school today if they're not major elemental accidents, so they stopped someone. The system's going and we're constantly going negatively towards that system. We keep bringing him to the level that there is really nothing wrong with this school from students to directors, to material rights determined in terms of costs that arise to salaries, to everything else. I don't think the system's wrong, he's got his own problems but he's probably with those who are competent to solve them probably and solve them. We were supposed to find some kind of solution here today in a united debate but offer something better than what we got from the government or from the SDP Club. What did we get? HDZ claims, i.e. Through the ministry, but through the club, we said we'd continue the licensing process. We haven't set deadlines and we claim that the responsibility of the minister and the secretary of state that I am also free to ask in some future time did you do what you promised to do here, where it was fortunate that it was in the previous term when we set deadlines, so let's ask him why you didn't do it? So he got the basis a month ago, the basis that this system can be completed and that directors can be licensed in the future. This is the view of the HDZ Club that it believes that the current secretary of state, the minister is sufficiently aware that without putting the year as a deadline or some kind of leaflet that needs to be skipped to resolve this system since the past has been almost here for a full nine years, let's say that it has not led to the intention of future directors to be licensed and to work as they are expected, given that some of the challenges that have been put before them, above all, into a particular part of the funds, European funds of certain programmes that can be financed from European funds. What did the SDP offer? He suggested that after the years they missed, after two deadlines that were entered in their time in office, When they had one heir and one they put in themselves, it wouldn't happen because their motivation about the deadlines wasn't enough for them to finish it, so I understood it. So, two deadlines skipped, they weren't motivated enough to solve it, but now they're asking us to put that deadline in order to be motivated. That doesn't make any sense to me, but good. And we heard the Living Wall, the Living Wall said we're looking for encryption when choosing the principal in schools. It's like something secret, no one's gonna look for whose director, the codes are like that, and whoever gets elected will be the director. That's what we heard today if I listened well to the whole debate. We in HDZ, I personally remain on the claim that we have shown in the past two and a half months, a hundred days, more actually, three months and a few days, 100 days of government that we want to change things in this country and that we are ready to do things. I expect that from both the secretary of state and the minister because you are alone and through these changes, but they make a commitment to do so regardless of whether the opposition will believe them or not. But they said themselves something that I can't say that they didn't hear or said they didn't get a month ago based on what they could do in the next time. Of course, colleagues on the other hand may still doubt it but their debate unfortunately did not convince me that they had done much at a time when they could solve it if they cared so much about it. The colleagues in the Living Wall show no confidence in the system, not only this but any who exist in the Republic of Croatia, and think that this should be solved by secrecy, code and that such a system can then survive and that licensing of future directors is stupid, that it is simply not necessary and that it is quite right now that what we have is enough to respond to the challenges of the time in which they live and in which new future directors should function. And of course, the school boards and founders. I come from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, there is the SDP in power and I will not say that on every school board it is set up by the mayor all living in order of politicians. There are good people, there are different parties, there are parents, there are teachers and on every school board are teachers and the parents are most of them and that's what we've heard that it's also not good, that teachers plus parents can revote any political decision. And that's why prioritizing all the directors of politicians, labeling every chief with a sheriff without having any authority over it, the mayor of which very few have founding rights, mostly large cities have those rights, too, because they are sheriffs because they have legal right, and the mayor who represents regional level are also sheriffs because they have the legal right to propose their three members, I don't think this debate has directed them in the direction that would give solutions to what we need to solve whether we're finally going to bring this system to an end. I think it shows the past hundred days that there has been a commitment and above all the will of the ruling to resolve it and there is an administration that has to do it. I expect when the secretary of state comes out in his final address that he also says after a whole day's debate what he thinks about it after he's heard everything. And I believe deeply that this system, regardless of the limits that have been set so far and never respected, will end and that in some year at least 2019 or 2018, we will have the opportunity to start licensing directors in our schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28193	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josip Boric, for the debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28194	Mr. Boric, you said, among other things, that you were talking about political staffing, so just before that in your replica, you said that HDZ did not do political staffing, something like that, in schools, but I see that you are interested in yesterday's debate, even political staffing within our party, that it bothers you, that you have a controversial way of choosing the bodies of our party, that my role here is controversial, although unlike you I have chosen from the last place on the list and that we do not have any legitimacy. You mentioned forged signatures. Well, here's Mr. Boric, if you think that, if you want to go into the Human Resources within the Living Wall, I invite you to prosecute me, to take me to court, to lock me up, to install some other people in the lead of the Living Wall and who will be obedient to you, who will listen to you, with whom you will be able to agree, who will give you signatures when you threaten to put the government together and wish you much happiness in this business because the public will finally see what methods you are serving. And you even mentioned the financing of our campaign, you were talking about yellow envelopes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28195	Dear colleague Pernar, your time has been stopped, so there is no time for you to object by chance. So, I'm asking you nicely to stick to the topic of the debate and don't speak at all and don't address the representative in such a way. So, I'm asking you nicely to stick to the topic of debate. We are talking about the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. I apologize, but your presentation of the present in no detail has mentioned this valid topic in any word. So your time hasn't been taken away, continue for another 30 seconds but I'm asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28196	But I would just like to tell you why I am, I would like to say that no matter what the topic is, Mr. Boric comes out of HDZ every time and every time he repeats the same thing. And now no one ever interrupts him, no matter what the subject he's talking about the yellow envelopes, the story of the election of the main board, that the three presidents are choosing I don't know two board members etc. And now that I question that farce,
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28197	Mr. Pernar, you're turning off the subject, I'm taking your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28198	There, these are those methods like your predecessor Reiner yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28199	Thank you, Mr. Pernar. From what I've heard, but look at the phonogram of the session Mr. Boric was talking about the school board's election which is very much the subject of this debate and not the main committee. So please stick to the subject. Reply for the replica, dear colleague Josip Boric. Also please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28200	Thank you very much, Your Honor. But it's a little hard to stick to the subject when someone gets completely off topic like Mr. Pernar because what I'm going to say is that I'm holding up his solution here in the Croatian Parliament just as he holds on to his oath as a parliamentary representative and as he holds on to the Croatian anthem, here I think that's enough. Not that he does not respect the word he gave here, he regularly violates Croatian laws and that is why it is likely that if we have not removed one, the Mandate-Immunity Commission has removed his immunity. So he doesn't keep his word, his oath, and he thinks that's what he's supposed to do, like this replica that has nothing to do with what I'm saying. I was talking about the law and my opinion of what he should look like. He wants to deal with me here because it hurt him that their party simply doesn't know whether or not he knows the name, name and the fact that a three-member assembly is elected by the main board of five members, that a small number of people choose a number of people. And that was, I read somewhere in some media that that's how it was, and now we connect it to the school boards. ... The Croatian Democratic Community, by contrast. ... [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28201	Dear colleague Pernar, I'd like you to please don't enter the word of a colleague. And I'm telling you, my colleague Boric once again, for the last time, stick to the subject and don't interpret to us what Mr. Pernar was saying in the replica, but stick to the subject of conversation and don't answer to it because it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28202	Then I won't answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28203	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28204	The breach of Rules of Procedure under Rule 232 but in fact you have already done all this, you warned your colleague, Boric, that he was absolutely not holding the subject as well as Mr Pernar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28205	Thank you. Thank you for your help. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Ivica Misic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28206	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, it is clear to all of us that in this country, politics and politics determines everything, so most of them and the directors, but there is something good in that, there are also good directors who can also commend, the truth has the same bad ones as they chose you in HDZ because you were probably the best in that area and you are sitting in the Assembly today, so it is done, probably you are looking for the best directors that you want to put. But what would I like to say? I would always put the most capable as a businessman, I want them to be the most capable people and to lead and schools, but that would best mean schoolmates, if most schoolmates say that this man is the best that any policy should support. That's what I as a businessman could say. When colleagues who sit every day argue know who that man would run it well and I think it would be one real thing and be that man. I can only, here's a note from Vinkovci we have a crafts school. The head of the school received 50 awards from the state and three Europeans. And now some politics comes and she needs to be put away. ... Yes, although HDZ has set up but it's very high-quality. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I would suggest that directors be selected twice at the most. After eight years of working as a headmaster if this principal had success in that school and brought some rewards and worked well to that school the principal should be extended regardless of all this, and those who are not good should certainly change them. But as an economicist, I say let's give them the opportunity and colleagues to choose people among themselves because they know which are the best of quality, not give them some foreign policy or any outside world. The boards in schools are just a formality that some kind of policy directs and we do even the quality... We know it's all politics, but let's do it again with our abilities. [[You don't understand.]] Let's not look at similarities. It's time for something to change in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28207	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28208	Thank you very much. Comrade Misic, we have had directors so far. We'll have them in the future. They didn't have licenses, and you said we knew better and worse, given the results they showed while they were in office. We will probably also have better and worse directors through the licensing system no matter what they have a license. But this assumes that there will be some knowledge of a different nature than may be current directors who should learn or learn at a time when they want to license themselves and enter certain processes that can enable them and surely be ahead of us. I say first of all because there are programs and opportunities that provide us with funds that we unfortunately didn't have until 2013. And it certainly requires certain knowledge that perhaps the current directors may not have. Maybe in larger cities, they have, in some smaller cities, maybe they don't. So perfection probably won't exist. But I personally know if there's a good director, if there's a good head of local self-government. Regional Self-Government and County that understands the need you will today build a missing school basic, middle, kindergarten what children need. If there's a director who doesn't have the need to be probative, to ask, to condition, to want some better conditions for his children, if you have a chief who doesn't want to understand it, you won't do anything, whether there's a license or something else. So it's always going to be the human factor that solves certain problems. I'm saying, even though I find this licensing as imagined will come to an end and finally get rid of it. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28209	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for his reply. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Nenad Stazic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28210	Thank you. My dear colleague, I'm going to be in full agreement with you when you say that today we are here all day from a little problem creating a big problem. And that's unnecessary. This little problem can be solved very easily to set a deadline. You're saying we need to find better solutions than what the SDPs are offering and what the government is offering. It is impossible to find a better solution between these two solutions. The solution may be that the government says the deadline is the last day of the government's term of office, the last day of office, we commit to doing the job in 4 years and we will not object to it. We'll accept that. But then you say, the secretary of state and the minister are conscientious people, so we should trust them. We don't have to set deadlines. We need to trust them. I see the secretary of state for the first time. I have no reason to trust him, nor to trust him. The minister does not trust half of Croatia. Half of Croatia doesn't trust him. Half the academic community claims that man is a copyist. Why should I trust him? And in the end, you're against setting deadlines. You say we don't have to set deadlines, so I'm sure the task will be done. The world's jump record is 2 and 45, you suggest we move the line. Let's remove the bar and trust everyone that he skipped 2 and 45, we'll have world champions you know how much. Whoever jumps and says, "Here I am, I skipped 2.45." We're gonna trust him because he doesn't have a wire because we removed it. Well, that's what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28211	I would like to thank my colleague Stazic for his replica. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28212	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazic, you've had a bar a foot and a half and a half and a half and you haven't jumped once. Is that so? Is that what the arguments we're talking about today say? So you had a meter of 80, so you moved to 2, you didn't jump a meter of 80 or 2 and you're looking for 2.20. What are you looking for? Because a jumper just can't jump if he doesn't have a flyer. Well, probably. It's also possible that I agree with you. You can't jump. I believe your claim cannot stand. The minister does not trust half of Croatia. What's he gonna be a minister anyway? What does he have to say? So you don't trust 80% of Croatia, so you are a politician, a representative, and you speak. So what? Does he need your support to be a minister? You didn't give him support, but he's still the minister you can talk about. To forbid him to say, to think, that in some way and to defend himself from this attack because you think that simply people can't do anything unless they're at your will, there are also those who think quite differently and it's always the choices that will solve those doubts. Because if you lost in the field, obviously you're trying to get something in the stands and that's allowed. But let's show it on the ground how much it's worth, and we'll see how it all ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28213	I thank my distinguished colleague, Boric. The next line came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28214	My colleague I will fight you know that I often cannot resist the urge to lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure very rarely during your or after your exposure. This time in your initial presentation, you have stuck to the topic, but you have shown a lot of things or tried to recapture today's day of debate who wants – what they want by ruling, what the opposition of the SDP wants, what the HNS wants, what the Living Wall wants. However, I must correct you in some of the parts you have misunderstood. So, the opposition, more specifically the SDP, is pushing for not to give up the director's license. And since it's been over the past year and a half, there have been pre-conditions that just need to be done with certain documents, and we think two years would be enough for that. And that's a real deadline, and that's what we're proposing not to move the deadline, but to now for the first time that we started to finish it and set ourselves a goal. If you do not want our deadline we are here through the debate we are ready to propose yours, so four years of mandate is probably enough that you can commit to Croatian citizens that you will end the 30% that we have to you, what we have not yet done and we have left you 70% of what we have done. If four years isn't enough for that, I don't know what we're talking about. But you're giving up on it, you just don't want to commit to what it just gives me the impression that actually this project won't be on your list of priorities and that in the end I don't know what reason to give up the licensing that's certainly not good. Croatia needs high-level standards that we will look for and expect from people who will run school institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28215	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice on the line. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28216	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, in these amendments and the additions of the law, it does not say that they will give up the licensing of directors, it is your kind, it is your kind of predictions, they are mostly like that and I say the responsibility of the opposition is at that level that you can afford and such predictions as you can afford proposals I do not know the minimum wage that can be as much as you suggested through the law. You could have suggested 10 thousand kunas given the responsibility you have as an opposition because, say, 10 thousand workers in the textile industry wouldn't have come to you for Ibler and asked you what you did if we were out of a job. But okay, let's not go too far into that thing I'm gonna talk about what you were talking about. You were four years old, two flights, you were changing your heights yourself, you weren't motivated, your assistant minister demotivated you, even six months ago you went to Zadar because you didn't care to solve the issue of licensing of Croatian directors, director of Croatian schools, so all you're saying today is I accept the part where you did your regret where you said we were guilty of not doing it, we apologize for that. And I asked for an apology because you said the minister had no influence on the selection of directors, which is obviously not true. You know very well that without the consent of the minister, you will not become the principal of the school institution. ... That's right. [[You can't hear a hack from a bench.]] That's why it would be okay for you to apologize in that section so that there's no untruth left outside after today's debate. And I also trust this secretary of state and the minister that they will finish this job regardless of the deadlines that did not motivate you as a government to bring it at least to the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28217	I thank my distinguished colleague, Boric. It's nice to see that there's a special relationship and vibe between the two MPs, that they know each other. Next to the replica, distinguished MP Domagoj Hajdukovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28218	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, I think you've taken a little too much of your right to interpret who wanted to say and whose message it was. And if we're going to talk about the responsibility expressed in this House, I'd probably want to and I could write in it books and books of what you said while you were in opposition and until you had no responsibility but the difference between constructive and responsible opposition and irresponsible opposition is that the opposition that's responsible is careful what it says, that it doesn't make false promises that it's clear that it's inconclusive and that it proposes solutions that we've done. Also, you need to know the difference between the election and the appointment of the director, so it's not the same thing when we're talking about the powers of the minister. And in the end, you say you're not giving up licensing the director, but I can't read it from the bill or that's what the secretary of state said. This provision is simply removed from the law. I can only interpret because we don't have a clear vision of what we're going to do with school, about how reforms are going, what our ultimate goals are, what I'm talking about, so there's no strategic approach. It can also easily happen that this provision no longer enters into the law. Also, a more extensive change of law has been announced, but again I worry about which direction that change will go, when we do not know what our ultimate goal is then we are working hard and then we are not setting ourselves goals or setting ourselves processes that lead to this goal, we are not dealing with this, but we are dealing with here ad hoc issues and ad hoc topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28219	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic for his replica. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28220	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajdukovic, I know what I was saying about the opposition. I've generally warned you about the mistakes you've been making, many times I've told you that you might at some point become victims of the law you've been making, that you'll be wrong to bring them down, that you're going to get out of power, given that you've been bad as a government and more or less than what I've been saying happened, so here's your chance to warn us now for four years, and we'll see what happens from all this, and yet I believe that the Minister and Secretary of State are tasked with solving this the way it's written down in the law. And your fears are normal, which, the opposition has the right to be critical, has the right to be afraid and there in some way express your own opinions, because I say the responsibility you have, as Mr Milanovic once told me, is at that level and you can be nothing more than an opposition and that is it. And the minister and secretary of state have work to do. If it doesn't work, you have the right to question them and every time you warn why you didn't do it, you promised it here and we'll have the same right, so let's see if there's an important deadline, a year that you two skip and want again as motivation, or if it's enough to say we have the foundations, we'll do it in time that's ahead. Here, so we'll leave it for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28221	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, Boric, I would briefly refer to that part of your discussion regarding the intention of continuing the licensing process and putting emphasis on the fact that in this proposal, the government did not move to the provision which prescribed the licensing of the director, but only the part which the licence prescribed as a condition we have repeated on several occasions, and I will use the opportunity to repeat it once again and stress with the intention of underlining once again that the continuation of the licensing procedure would go and that I once again put an emphasis on one word you mentioned very often and then you probably caused other speakers to repeat it so that in the last half hour, it was repeated one dozen times, fifteen times, and that is the word "motivation". On the one hand, reading, reading the interpretation of that word, I realized, reading that it was two kinds of motivations. One's the one on the outside and the other's the one on the inside. The outside motive is that imposed by a deadline that on the predecessor model proved ineffective. The other kind of motivation is one that goes inside intrinsically for which research has shown and the waist says it's much more effective. In this sense, this motivation of this government goes from within, it is intrinsic, it will not be followed by imposing any deadlines and its attention will be on the content of once again, quality content rather than form just in order to meet up to that date some deadline and licensing system will be introduced when the time comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28223	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28224	Thank you very much. Comrade Bedekovic, you were not in office when they were in power. They interpreted every law as possibilities, the broad possibilities that the state gives to entrepreneurs, education, health care, social services, etc., so they always had that part where they explained that every law is a good framework and opportunity. We, when we propose a framework like this and the possibility that they will immediately question and say you won't. And I guess we have to agree with that, and say that it's you who's had the bar twice and you didn't want to skip it because you didn't want to, and now you need one to fall on one. But I don't know why it's necessary, and why we have to keep doubting the system that's working, and who's been in trouble a few days now, and we want to solve it through an emergency procedure so that people can choose and that they can become directors and that this administration, the minister, the secretary of state, the assistants, and finally on the basis of which they won before the month that they don't even challenge come to the end of the whole system, and that we can finally say we're done, so let's just go to school now, and license ourselves in future competitions and become school principals, and let's get away in some way and one part of politics out of it. They're allowed to continue. We have our own way, we have our own government that we want to support and let them work, and let this system come to an end and let them doubt as much as they can, at least here's more than four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28225	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. The following link was reported by distinguished counterpart Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28226	Thank you. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Mr. Brkić, I am pleased with my colleague Boric that you have stated and stressed that the Croatian education system is a good system but that it should be improved and modernised, as well as this urgent procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education, and that is one of the kinds of promotions related to the fact that all of this goes in favour of both our directors and children who are the most vulnerable group, especially children with special needs. What's also good and what's good is that you noticed that the system is going and that the system is working. Yes, both in Gorski Kotar's stables and in the villages like with half and more metres of snow today, the system is working and everyone is doing their job. However, the issue of heating or toilet paper has been raised here today, so I think it would also be good to say clearly and loudly that schools, according to reported needs, receive financial resources and the school's financial plan brings itself to the principal, so I believe that only licensing will go well in favour of much better planning of financial resources, and therefore I think more should be given support and licensing and, of course, the law itself concerning the provision of easier conditions for children with special needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28227	I thank my esteemed colleague Majdi Buric. The answer to my distinguished colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28228	Thank you. Comrade Buric, we insist on what we think is good, we think this bill is good, that it is not a hindrance to what colleagues from the SDP have suggested. They are ultimately asking us to accept their solution and the border they would set, we think there is a better way that the government has proposed, and we will accept it. They unfortunately missed their chances and of course we listen here all day long, we listen to them, everything is bad, and in fact we have inherited them in some way and we have to determine that it is exactly what they say. But I'm saying, funding schools is especially in the material part of the county's powers. There are counties that may be able to do something more, there are counties that can do something less but schools will work and will continue to function further, the law will be passed and we will ask the secretary of state and the minister that what we have adopted today and what we are talking about is being fully implemented as promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28229	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28230	Thank you. Mr. Vice President! I'll try to be as brief as possible because a lot of thesis is already repeated, I'll speak from my personal experience. As far as licensing is concerned, I can say on my own behalf that it is always good to set some deadlines. On the other hand, the deadline is not a guarantee that something would be implemented that tells us the experience of the past governments, but I would like to draw something positive out of this debate, which is that we have nevertheless created some consensus that the licensing of directors is necessary. In what form it will be carried out we do not know, but professionalization of the principal position is very, very important in the school system. I can tell you this from personal experience because I know which principal has the place in the education system. We're here talking even about some external functions of the principal as the school looks. However, the director directly influences the education and education of our children, from banal things, means to choose a classroom for a class where there are children with developmental difficulties, a classmate who has a sensitivity for such a child, that he will choose a classmate in which there are many problems of children with ADHD, who have patience and that directly influences the education and education of children. In addition, the principal organizes the entire work of the school, along with the captain agreeing with the captain. It actually organizes teaching according to the teaching standard so that the first or second hours are subjects that are educational content as it goes 5 and 6 hours of educational content where children are less concentrated. So these are little things, but it has a lot to do with our children's educational process. So I think licenses are necessary. In what form will it be implemented we have seen that European practices are different. What would not like to happen, but it has been said more than once in the debate that the director must not be the manager, that it is one function or one of the skills that would be desirable for him to own, but the principal must primarily be the pedagogue because he works directly with the children. As for the school boards and the selection of directors, the director's licenses will not reduce the impact of policy i.e. will reduce them but will not resolve the policy impact on the selection of directors. I had a principal in my school who was kind of chosen from politics. Now came the principal who was elected by the school board outside politics and both directors were good. So the guarantee that someone has been chosen from politics or not politics is not crucial, but it should certainly reduce the impact of politics on the selection of directors. And a colleague of Sabina Vosovac said it was really true that the influence of parents or representatives of the parent council was crucial in the selection of directors. And you should also point out that when selecting the principal, a representative of the parent council must listen, i.e. to choose the man who chose the entire board of parents. So, at my school there were 54 classes and all the candidates for the principal were presented to the Board of Parents who had the right to choose. And a representative of the board of parents had to listen to most of the votes, so that recommendation. And what I would like to point out in the context of the equipment of schools is that in the City of Zagreb, the members of the school board in the order of politicians think that this is the only county or the City of Zagreb receive compensation. So for each meeting they get about 380 kuna. Now you're multiplying the i.e. sum up all primary and secondary schools in the City of Zagreb with members of the school board you actually get millions of dollars going to politicians, and very rarely these school board meetings last half an hour. And now think about when that money that goes to politicians on school boards would be directed to schools, to school equipment, to pills as much as it would mean to kids at school. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28231	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28232	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sladolev, we all agree that we want such an education that will enable our children and students to have as high quality education as possible, acquire the skills to be more competitive on the labour market tomorrow and you said that this is the crucial role of the director as he manages the institution and as he motivates his associates to transfer knowledge to students. I claim that the director has a very narrow space because in order for him to have a high-quality and motivated collective these teachers and teachers must also have adequate compensation for their work, and we have witnessed that in the previous period their salaries were constantly lower than they were supposed to be, that they were promised equalization of their personal incomes with other civil servants and tenants and that it did not occur and there was indeed a director in a poor position to motivate his colleagues to work better. He is also the director in a certain way constrained with space because for equipment, investment, investment maintenance his founder whether the city or county gets funds from the ministry that determines the quota and amount of funds and in the last 4.5 years the funds 10, 15, 20% are reduced in which year and under such circumstances it is difficult to maintain the level and quality of teaching. And besides that, we have a problem of ingenuity where your founder is, for example, the city, and the regional school is on some unit of local self-government that is not under the city, and there is neglect and district school and non-investment in the same. And we even have examples of where to build a new school facility in Ruščica near Slavonski Brod or where a new school opened in Pokkraj after 7, 8 years, where it was precisely that the ministry regulated the relationship between founders and units of local and regional self-government. And the absurdity of being a larger county corresponds to the cost incurred at school because the principal did not pay the salaries properly even though the mayor had no influence on it and surely that system should be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28233	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic for his replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28234	Mr. Vice President, I apologize if I said crucially, I meant a very important function that is in educational education and I personally as a teacher for 20 years have witnessed all the reforms that have broken over the back of teachers and parents and I fully agree with you that the motivation of teachers with current salaries cannot be to the extent to which they should be but most teachers do their job zealously despite that salary they have and agree with you that the only right of reform that should go to school is actually an increase in the salaries of teachers and teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28235	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague of Sladolev. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Ivica Misic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28236	Thank you. Vice President of the Parliament! My colleague Sladolev, I'd like to ask you a question. Since you've been working at school for years, I would have asked you how would you choose a principal? Would you choose between your colleagues that you know or that someone outside would give you that idea? I think that, personally I think every normal man wants between colleagues where they sit to choose those who are capable. We have all the demagogy and the political game. We need to stop it, we need to start working, seriously address issues in some narrow bodies, here to give solutions. We also see this with Minister Barisic, two major universities gave him a green light but someone remembered, saw or some of our academics gave the same support but did not support journalists and similar people who even had nothing to do with what they were saying. So I'm asking you, how would you choose a principal in your midst? Here, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28237	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28238	I would like to choose, of course, someone in my midst and I chose. So, two years ago, I had the opportunity to choose the principal, I was president of the school board, I was just one vote in all of this, and it's normal and human to have people choose between themselves the man they think is the best. And again, I want to repeat that this system that we now have that should reduce the impact of politics on me, so I think that the county or city, in this case the City of Zagreb should have its own representative but I disagree that it should be three representatives, I think it should be two so that in some way it increases the influence of even more parents and teachers to elect a director.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28239	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28240	A colleague of Sladolev, in some cities the fees for members of the school boards are numbered in these amounts greater than a thousand kunas, you mentioned. In most cities and counties, members of the school board do the job without any compensation. And secondly, you've well detected what all of a director should be and what he should be doing, which are the challenges put before them. However, we have truly beautiful people in the system who are doing very well. Here, I can think of a school from Slavonski Brod where Mr. Spray, using the European Union funds, made a small production plant out of that agricultural school and it's really beautiful where it's developing. You have a director from Zadar Tihomir Tomčić, and they also produced the first electric vehicle, a charger for electric cars, using funds from the European Union. And there are examples that can really mate with modern European schools and that are indeed the pride of the Republic of Croatia. However, there are those who, not only as I would say, allow politics to interfere with their butics that have no courage or will, in fact, resist political pressures. And I am saddened to see it as I see it today in the morning list, says the director of the Sibenik Technical School threw out an exhibition titled “Ana Frank – History of the Present” because they said they had placed panoes on which the Ustasha criminals and partisan flowers were placed. Well, now, while we have directors who instead of working on school development, who instead of watching them use funds, improve school development, help teachers, teachers, children, as long as we don't have such directors, but those who simply send an example in this way and the public and work from school cases and throw ultimately at the entire management system have no help. There won't even be a license to help until we condemn some things and say politics a lot of expertise, let's do your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28241	I thank my dear colleague Sabina the Voice. I'd like to ask you to stick to the time-limited debate. Answer, dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28242	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I agree with you that, for example, I don't know if you would comment on this particular case, but this director could theoretically have a license to have licenses and that wouldn't sort of amnesty from that event. So it's very possible that we'll have cases of directors who have malfeasance or who do such things with a license. What is important is that it will professionalise the work of the director, and as far as the fees on school boards are concerned, here I would mention once again that this is a small problem for the city of Zagreb. That's not a problem, I don't want to be hypocritical, I'm also a member of the school board also getting that fee but I think that in the city of Zagreb a lot of the larger financial has especially as regards school of unsupervisedness and that the money that otherwise gets members of the school board should be invested in much more valuable projects and kindergartens etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28243	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Marko Vučetic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28244	Here, my colleague, Sladolev, I agree with you in the part where you say that the role of director cannot be automated to such an extent that we hold that they will now, at some level, metaphysically begin to create new policies in schools. We also need licences for all directors to be trained and that all schools meet the same requirements and that we have equal pedagogical standards on the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. The part that I'm being disputed about is the pool of those potential personnel. When the school board picks the principal from the pool of his friends or colleagues, he chooses a friend, not a principal. And that's why we need this licensing to have a pool of personnel who meet exactly those requirements called the school director or according to this new profession. Because that way we're chasing levels just as much as it would be when we read a media article or media content about something that's going on at a school, it's not pedagogical truth, it's media truth. So in schools, we should not be allowed to have our friends run schools, nor our party colleagues, but rather to be principals, and that is only possible for licenses. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28245	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetić, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Vučetic's that licenses will help to reduce such influences, including friendships and policies, but will not solve the problem until the end. You'll have at my school 50 of us when it's open or school or high school place to license, I'm sure 10, 20 people from my school will apply for that schooling. And then we'll have the same problem again. Also, a lot of political personnel will apply for the director's license and compete for it again. So I'm actually saying that we expect too much of the director's licensing to solve. They'll improve the current system, but they won't solve the problems we have in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28247	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28248	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Sladolev really agrees with your presentation and with your debate here because it is true and the licensing will not depart from those who have such intensities of political staffing because the competition will come up with two, three, five licensed persons and we will generally, if we do not have it, we will not avoid anything again. However, I was offered something here that you have truly honestly said and honestly that the school boards in Zagreb have a fee. I don't know maybe somewhere else in Croatia it exists. No, only in Zagreb. Both Zagreb and Slavonski Brod, and Solin, and they are all in Croatia in one unique educational system. That's what one of the directors tells me, obviously looking at this here today, says, obviously we are in our unity, in our community with the local level, parents and students are maintaining this system. But the legislator who in the past has changed the law 11 times today, and the directors do, in that forest, the law is absolutely lost. It is therefore necessary to pass a single educational law up to the smallest detail, and as such a fee for members of the school board that it is unique throughout Croatia. And the directors, I will say and I am convinced that in Croatia there are a really large number, a very large number of very high-quality, responsible and conscientious directors. It's not easy for them to get along in the woods either. Here's a rule of 11 new amendments to decisions and laws since 2008, without speaking to those of others who come from other segments, as regards the director and the public procurement and the others that we mentioned here today. I'll say it on one example. Thanks to the intensities of the directors in the environment in which we are the city of the size of 25 thousand inhabitants, it is the second primary school in 10 years, and they are the ones who encouraged it in view of the size of the number of children in schools that I had already spoken through one of the exhibitions. So thank them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28249	Thank you, dear colleague Boban, for the replica. The answer of the esteemed colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28250	Thank you, colleague Boban, so it is, you're right. So we don't have the same education not just as far as school boards are concerned. We have nothing to do with school textbooks, classroom equipment. You have classrooms in Gorski Kotar that you have to put wood in the oven to warm up, while you have schools like that in the city where everything is computerized. So we have a very diverse education system. As for the school board. I was even embarrassed, I had a friend in Split, and every time she went to the school board she was crying, she said again I had to go to the school board and we just have to make a half-hour decision. I'm here to tell you the truth, it's not hard for me to leave I'll get 380 kuna in those half hours, and it's not fair for real.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28251	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for his reply. The next member of the line came from a distinguished colleague, Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Sladolev, I would only briefly really refer to the part of your debate in which you put your attention on school committees, the composition of school committees and the role of founders throughout this story. It is certainly good that although it is not a measure of the things that we are discussing today, and we are discussing licensing but it is good that this topic has been crystallized also as a basis for another debate when we are discussing more complete changes and additions to this same law that should be in order this year as well. What am I saying? When it comes to the founder, you now have that one dilemma and one very important question. If the founder of the school is a city or county regardless, this founder of whoever he was is also a state, we have cities and counties in primary and secondary schools, by logic things have responsibilities because he's called the founder, responsibility for the institution that is so. Then he, on the other hand, has the right through his representatives to know what is going on and to participate in the decision-making process. So it's reality and it should be taken into account and it's just like that. Now, that's a double sword. To what extent can the founder, through members of the school board, who can reach the majority with their parents or anyone else, go into an emphasis on political influence through the founders. So, this is a topic that we can and should discuss in this House of higher education, so at the legislative level, we can regulate this issue so that I would say that we can bring to order the state of consciousness of the school board members in this sense to start thinking about what is the well-being of the school, the institution, and what is above that. So in that sense we could say, "Let the stone be cast by the one who has no sin." So, there's a lot going on, and in that sense, I think it should be better regulated legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28253	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. Answer? There isn't. Thank you very much. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I answered the replica from one topic, but let me refer to what it was, which is the city of Zagreb. I'd say it can be said in one sentence, it has, it can be said. The city of Zagreb acts in a number of ways as an island, as if Croatia and other laws were not applicable, so it is also there compared to what you said. It would be logical, for example, to be a one-way course in all schools in the city of Zagreb, it would be logical that when children are enrolled in the first grade of primary school, parents do not have to buy toilet paper and everything else. In the city of Zagreb it is true, and they are paid, therefore work fees. For example, I have now tried to find how much is in the budget of the city of Zagreb for primary schools, so it is quite difficult to find. But for example, it is convenient to know, let's say the city of Zagreb 920 million kuna in its budget has for preschool education. When you say 920 million kuna, then it's one imaginary number, but it's good to put it in context. The budget of the city of Rijeka is 800 thousand kuna. I see the candidate for, 800 million kunas apologize. I see my colleague Oprah's looking at me. The budget of Split, which did not pass, was quite unrealistic, went to a billion kuna. Real about 800 million kunas. In Zagreb, 920 million kuna is preschool education, so we know what we're talking about. But I answered for another reason. All day long, we've been listening to a debate about whether or not we're in a position to get a deadline in the law until it's time for the director to be licensed or not. You said you were okay with it at first, so then you did a little resterating. I'm wondering if you really are, that the law says it's time to license the directors or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28255	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark-Taritash, on the replica. Answer, dear colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28256	Thank you. I think I've made myself clear about it. I said personally that deadlines improve things, but that they do not guarantee success. So here is the secretary of state who, I think, is politically responsible for his work, who will therefore be responsible for his minister and that. And I said that deadlines are not a guarantee that something will happen because we have experience from past parliaments. So here, the deadline would be good but it's not a guarantee of success in the project area.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28257	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev, for his reply. And we have another replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28258	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, I was offered to report and replicate my colleagues for this, uh, statement of yours on the school boards' fees. But my colleagues have already made a statement about it, so I won't repeat myself. So, indeed, most of the members of the school committees in the Republic of Croatia are without compensation and I think we should really thank these people for volunteering and for wanting to contribute in this way to the community in which they live and all schools and the work of schools and their progress. What I'd like to say is, we've heard a lot today that he's giving up licensing with this bill of amendments. It's really not like that. Article 117 shall remain in force. It refers to licensing and therefore does not give up. In my humble opinion, the proposer himself was deleted by Article 126a. The easiest normative way to address the existing specific situation is because there are currently several requests for the appointment of directors at the ministry's disposal. So where the proceedings started last year are not completed and these procedures should be completed properly. I think this is the simplest way to suggest, which doesn't mean that you're giving up licensing and that it's necessary to write a deadline in law in order to do so by that deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28259	I thank my esteemed colleague Maria Jelkovac for her replica. There's no answer. I thank you for saving Mr. Sladolev's time. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Milorad Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28260	Thank you, esteemed Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have two proposings, let's say a similar law that speaks of elementary school, high school education. And what you got on the bench is the CNS amendment to this topic. The Government proposal, which can certainly support the amendments and additions to Article 1 that are necessary, but Article 2 cannot support where Article 126a is deleted. which states that the principal of the school institution, subject to the conditions laid down in Article 126, must have a licence for the work of the director. We simply believe that this is a step back in improving both primary and secondary education. However, when we talk about the SDP proposal then we see the possibility to extend the deadline, to respect this by the end of 2018. So let's say almost two years and that's an acceptable solution. However, in order to make it possible to do so, I will show one buildup and the Government's proposal and the SDP's proposal, HNS, in its function, I would say that I would like to set my amendments where we propose to delete Article 2 of the Government's proposal and where, also in the transitional and final provisions of the amendment, we extend the deadline until 1.1.2019. Well, technically, I think the government should consider this proposal. In my opinion, in this situation where there are justified reasons for amending and supplementing the laws, the appointment of the directors to whom the term of office has expired and should simply not have a lower level of school, primary and secondary suffering because of what the executive authority has not done. All governments so far since 2008. It's simple, but we in HNS are not meant to take a step back and lower the criteria. I am surprised, and I would suggest, that the Secretary of State listens carefully, Article 126 of the current law, item three that were adopted in 2005, which speaks if someone who does not have a high, higher preparation or a four-year Teacher's study appears to be a headmaster and has two consecutive mandates. The suggestion is to delete it, because I don't think there's any need for that anymore. In 2005, I believe that there have been, however, more and more young people highly educated, professional who meet the criteria and conditions, so I find this simply unnecessary. By deleting paragraph 3 of Article 126, it would be a step forward. Also, do not delete Article 126a. More and more challenges today are being put before the principals. We've heard about school committees, ways, etc., so I can agree with most of these discussions. But we also have to make sure that both the school board and the principal have to account for someone. It's about public money. Furthermore, today, the director is looking at projects, running for certain projects on EU funds. He has to take care of the school, the gym depending on the size of the school, the infrastructure. So he must have some knowledge, some extra skills that are put before him every day. He needs to know how to read legislation. And we think this licensing is something like let's say lifelong learning. And now what message is sent by the Government by deleting Article 126a. Not only is it a step back, but you're sending a message to citizens, parents whose students go to primary and secondary schools. Well, here's the principal can be the one who doesn't have some qualifications, not necessarily, but the message can be read like that. I am also surprised by the HDZ Government and the MostA, which advocates certain parolees to say that in the public sector they must be professional, capable, highly educated through public competitions. So still certain criteria for public sector governance, and here we go with a lower criterion. It's kind of out of line with what you're saying, what you represent. So I suggest you consider this proposal, and it was also put forward on behalf of the HNS Club I will now repeat it, accept the amendment to Article 1 of your amendments to the law is correct, more than acceptable. Article 2 to be deleted and accepted or our deadline set in Amendment 31.12.2018 or to accept the SDP bill which has just given the time limit not to be deleted means from the invitations to tender Article 126 and that it must be a licence and to comply with the 2019 licensing. I believe that this is not a problem, but I will repeat by removing the article, by erasing the article where licensing is required step back, not by setting certain deadlines as targets that we want to do, I think it's not good. It is not good and a message is sent back to the general Croatian public. When we talk about whether it's an optimal solution, I'm going to refer to what my colleagues and colleagues discussed about the school boards. There is much in this law other than the school boards and this paragraph 3 of Article 126 should be corrected so that I would not be able to discuss it now, but it should certainly aim at one optimum. Because let's be realistic and objective. The composition of the school board however they set it is not ideal, but what we need to strive for. We need to look at the reality that is in life, which is on the ground, anything or dare I would say 90% of the school's success depends on one person and that's the director. That's the principal. I've had through my work experience with let's say two kinds of directors. Unfortunately, one who didn't even know that the city had turned its insides over the people on the local board, had slowed down two classrooms at his primary school. Now he's the new director who practically knocks on the door all the time, Mayor, even if the county's the founder. We should help this for our students. Proactive, a high school principal who has already attracted over 4 million kunas from European funds. But when you look at the CV of that person, I believe she'd pass the license in a second. But why? Over 7, 8 years, there have been no courses from foreign languages, from the head of EU funds, from management, etc. etc. Let's be correct, Secretary of State, accept this proposal, and I believe it will be an optimal solution. Of course, in due course, you will have to try as soon as possible to create the criteria for licensing, because this is a step forward, and unfortunately I have to consider this a step backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28261	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28262	Thank you. You say dear colleague Batinic that the HNS is against lowering the criteria so that the director can be anyone. I agree with you, but now that I've read the news that was published an hour ago at 15.57 on the portal of one serious daily newspaper, not on any portal, then it becomes clear to me why HDZ is objecting to the licensing of directors. The news is actually too scary. The head of the Technical School in Sibenik banned part of the exhibition Ana Frank – History in the present. Sibenik was supposed to be the 24th city where the exhibition was set up, and as part of the international project it will be exhibited in 40 countries of the world. The presentation in Sibenik was created through the collaboration of the Croatian Educational House for the Evolution of Agreements and the Association of Houses Ana Frank from Amsterdam. Although the organizer of this exhibition warns everyone in advance, but everything where the exhibition is set up is that there is a European part of the exhibition and part that shows local history. No one had a problem with that except the headmaster of the Technical School in Sibenik. Out of the 30 worlds, six domestic pans were scheduled to be placed. The directors were disturbed by the fact that the Ustashas were depicted as criminals who slaughtered Serbs and Jews and starved children and asked for these panorams to be removed. The organizer of the exhibition refused and the exhibition was withdrawn. This head of the Technical School in Sibenik would not have been licensed in any European country, in any country. And now that this government and HDZ refuse to set a license deadline, it becomes more clear to me why.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28263	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic, on the line. The answer to the esteemed colleague Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28264	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Stazic, I am not directed enough to comment on the director's actions, but what you said is difficult for me to assess, but it is unacceptable for me at first. However, the question is also raised when licensing itself, which will be the criteria for licensing, or what to learn. It's history, it's ethics, it's a question, and I'd even dare say it politically, even though I think that in this part of it, primarily when we're talking about policies in education, and not about this part, I certainly can't agree with that director on the basis of what you said happened. I think it's unacceptable and inappropriate, and that's where we're going back to the founder and the school boards. I think it's a theme for the school board and that it's served by the school board, because it's basically controlled by the director's work. I guess if the school board is the founder, someone should start a certain initiative and reconsider the behavior of the director in question. Now, I also remember believing that you were once representatives of the state administration, there were even nine members of the school board, I don't know if it's 7 or how much today. Because I've never been involved in these calculations or who's proposing who, who's choosing whom. It just wasn't necessary. However, I think that we should rise especially in educational institutions from such things as have unfortunately happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28265	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for his reply to this replica. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Mr. Honorable colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28266	Thank you, Your Honor. Today, this debate has taken a pretty long time, and I'm sorry it hasn't been directed in any other direction. We have a problem in Croatia for hungry children in primary and secondary schools. These amendments to the law will not solve the problem. I think it's embarrassing and sad if one child at school is hungry, but unfortunately I can see that all those bellies from this House can't see it, or understand it because it's said that you'd understand someone first you have to walk in their shoes. Those who led people to the container, to the ranks in front of the soup kitchens, unfortunately for such things, don't care. But there's something that matters to them, and it's whether the directors have a license or they don't and that the thing gets worse eight years ago is already passed that regulation that they should have it, so now after eight years that nothing's been done is moving it now. Well, as far as I'm concerned, you could've left it for another 50 years to stand, you wouldn't have spent it anyway. Nothing will change this regulation. The letter of the law changes, in practice changes nothing while children in schools starve. Why doesn't the state protect those children? Why not say that children who, according to their own testimony, lack money or whose parents do not have money do not have the right to a free school meal. You'll say, so as there are some social censorships. So what's a social censorship worth to a hungry child? What does it have to do with his parent’s formal lack of the right to have a free meal, which is hungry? What kind of bureaucratic form do these children have? Unfortunately, nothing, but let's say, let's say my colleague Sincic was a model student, never prescribed at school. I was shocked to hear that, and his classmates confirmed it to me, but let's just say I was cheating. And if I was caught by a copy teacher, I'd be punished, I'd be taken a test, I'd get one. But when the Minister of Education prescribes from someone else and hands over part of someone else's work as his work, there's no sanctions. So there's a repression in schools against kids, and kids are starving. And one more thing. Who does education exist for? For who, ladies and gentlemen? Well, it's the kids. How many student representatives sit on school councils? Zero. Imagine the students who are subject and in fact the subject throughout the story presents them as some object that is not wondering anything. Why are children not the ones whose voice can be heard, whose opinion can be heard? Why don't children take a democratic path, students at school can run as many kids as they want for the lead, i.e. for the school board and let those with the most votes be elected. You'd learn democracy, you'd learn the election process. She would see that they too decide, or co-determination. But, of course, the education system is undemocratic, the children are not wondering. There are all kinds of changes being introduced, changes like national graduations. What did national prom do? How much did the number of jobs increase due to the introduction of the state's graduation? Zero. The results of the PISA tests, so international standards are a disaster. We're below average. Instead of blaming an educational system that doesn't teach children to think, which teaches them to beat themselves up. He's a minister or a politician who already apologizes, I don't think he's a minister, someone else blamed the children of the national minorities that we're weak because of them, etc. It's everybody else's fault, but those who created this system are not their fault. They're never guilty, nor can they be guilty. And mostly suma sumarum in school is a disaster. Young people are not interested in politics, in the political process, they are not told anything about it. Children in schools don't have the right to a replica, they don't have the right to an individual debate, they can just sit there and shut up and have no right to their own opinion. The professor is always right and that's it, it's an education system under your leadership, ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ. Yeah, that's what it looks like. And, of course, children don't like to go to school, of course children's materials are boring, of course children are marked from school. Well, I've marked it myself, of course, so who's gonna listen to those stories. Who's going to listen to ladies and gentlemen? So you yourselves do not come to the meetings of the Parliament, and if the child does not come, then one hour will be left behind. Try ladies and gentlemen plagiarizing let's say copy to college exam. You're being kicked out of college. The measures are against dragon students. I don't know my name as a politician that I ate on someone else's ixica, it's an accusation against me. Now, these are structures that serve people like the Bujanc and the like. I'd like to get out of this debate smarter. So I'm looking for three things to start with. That your hungry children are given a free meal and that some bureaucratic censorship can't be the key to determining who has the right to a free meal, who doesn't, so whoever has nothing to do with it is hungry. And you know why it doesn't matter? Because we're here in the Assembly, because there's toilet paper in the bathroom. See what the price of food is, how much the price is I don't know the juice, coffee, tea in the Assembly, see what it is like in primary or secondary schools, in the canteen in high school canteens. Why do kids in high school say V. high school where I went, why do they have to pay VAT when they're drinking coffee or tea and we don't have it here? Why don't you release the VAT of the school cafeteria? Well, kids aren't richer than us. But you don't care. You're interested in the regulation of the director's license, the whole day is this debate here and it's clear from the plane like I said you passed a law eight years ago that you didn't do anything and you know what happened? You stole the whole day talking about nothing eight years ago, so now after eight years, you're stealing all day talking about nothing, and like I said to the kids, it's a disaster, it's a disaster. You destroyed young people's future, you took away their chance to live in this country. With me at the gallery upstairs before this debate there was a girl who was traveling to Germany tomorrow because there was no work for her in this country. And he says how many young people in their 20s are gonna be sitting on a bus with me tomorrow. Who's the HDZ gentlemen interested in? You took care of your children. Your children are fine. The sons of the tycoon you created are being scattered with money and we're discussing what? What's the big deal here all day? So do you gentlemen listen to yourself from HDZ? So ask the public that this circus, this farce, is watching who cares what you're talking about? You have no shame looking me in the face, that's sad. If you have no shame in looking me in the face as I speak at least look yourself in the mirror and ask yourself what laws you are dealing with and what you are putting on our agenda. These laws are no use to anyone. And I repeat, you need to include the children in the school boards. Well, I can't have kids who are subject to the whole story being excluded from making decisions. Well, he has to ask them. No, but you're gonna say what we care what the kids think they're kids. They're not children to me. These children will be voters tomorrow and they will judge you, young generations whom you have not washed your brain through Stankovic's shows and state television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28267	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Pernar, thank you for an interesting debate. You had a few interesting points. However, in this replica, you said that you did not know which person from the Ministry of Science and Education was insulted by national minorities, children with disabilities, so I only wanted to remind you that it was State Secretary Matko Glunčić and that the committee, many members and members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and also the defenders of several of them and the complete Croatian public who had been scandalned by such statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28269	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic for the replica. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28270	So you know what Mr. Glavasevic is going to say, blame the children of national minorities for the poor results of these standardized international tests, it's like blaming bottle collectors, people who freeze in front of soup kitchens and homeless people for this catastrophic economic situation in the country. You know who's to blame, you know who's to blame for this state of education, for what they are. Be careful this proposal is put on the agenda, this proposal is yes, and when they took the rights of teachers and students, then it was a higher priority. And so you're reducing your rights to teachers, you're stripping material rights, you're destroying students, and that's what I said you're burying us with legal proposals that are playing with form. It's like now you're discussing whether in law writing a decimal at the beginning or in the middle of a sentence or in the end. Now because of one mistake you've made yourself that nothing will change this law in practice? Nothing. Everything will remain after this amendment to the law, everything will remain the same as it was. So ask yourself if the citizens want things to stay the way it was. The citizens want to change, they've had enough of all this. I can't listen, you say we can't listen to you, so they had to listen to you for 25 years. How long will he listen to you? Enough of that, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28271	Dear MPs, please don't get your colleague Pernar in my word. He just realized that a little too much, now he's had a photosession up at the gallery so I hope that it will act gently on him to calm down. And really please don't raise your voice because as I told you yesterday there is a voice in the Croatian Parliament and we hear you well enough. Thank you very much for your answer. The next call came from a prominent counterpart Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28272	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Brkic. Here's Mr. Pernar when you talk about families where children don't have for school kitchens, I think you should mention and not be selective in information, so you should mention free meals for 23 thousand children provided by the Children's Foundation in 2008 by the Republic of Croatia. So 23,000 free meals just by the trust. In addition, I think that you should have also mentioned local self-government and regional self-government that regularly helps co-finance or finance children in such difficult positions. Since you said that children are deprived of the right to any decision, I believe that you should have listed the Council of Students who exist in all primary and secondary schools, where students and class representatives are just now co-determining and co-creating certain policies and where they can express themselves on their opinions and where they express themselves. You could also mention debate clubs whose representatives in Croatia are extremely advanced and extremely successful at the level of the whole of Europe and beyond, you could mention civil education and education programmes that are being implemented and that teach about the parliamentary system on democracy, etc., so that I believe that it is not all as black as you show it, and I think that you should be much more transparent about all this and not approach it so selectively and say what it really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28273	I thank my esteemed colleague Majda Buric for her replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Pernar. I hope you don't raise your voice...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28274	You said ma'am that kids can have student councils. And what can the student council decide on, what? About choosing a principal, who's going to be busy at school? No, I can't decide anything. That's my dear lady dog democracy. And you know what dog democracy is? There's an English expression you can bar you can bark, at least you can't get near the bon. And that's the democracy that you give to the Croatian people because people can say whatever they want and dig through the trash and decide nothing. And as for hungry children, or your stories about how many free meals you provide, I'll read you a story from the tram. This is the title: “Dad, I’m hungry. An earthquake story from a Zagreb tram that no one has ever been indifferent to. The father collects bottles, the mother can't find a job." says one woman driving on the tram "During today's usual tram ride at the last station the father enters under the left hand of two crutches, while on the right trying to hold a wheelchair with a small child. He finally manages to sit on an empty seat until the baby wakes up. The first thing he's saying is, Dad, I'm hungry. Dad explains how there were no bottles today, and that he managed to buy him only one ton of cake that promises that Dad will always manage to write in..." Ladies and gentlemen, do you think you have nothing to do with it? Do you think that man and his child are just wrong? From what I heard where you justify your policy, I realized that you care about Croatia, that you love Croatia and that you do everything you can to help but the people don't trust you, ma'am. This man who says there wasn't much of a bottle today, I doubt he trusts you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28275	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28276	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pernar has little of this debate today reminds me of Ionesco's theatre of absurdity. With all the problems that the Croatian education system has and which one comprehensive law could systematically solve us after a year of this and the previous government that lasted we receive a draft law that counts only 3 articles. And these 3 articles are also not addressed on time to this Croatian Parliament until 31 December. So a year couldn't write an article that would extend the time limit for licensing the director that we don't have a vacuum now and that schools can't actually be chosen because no one meets the conditions. People come forward but the competition has to be canceled, no candidate meets the conditions. Three articles were to be written for a year. Not to mention that I have to admit that in January 2017, we will have a law that will create assumptions for the experimental introduction of curricula reform into our schools that children no longer work under the 90s programmes, to implement strategic guidelines in such a way as to disburse directors in programmes that teach that they have more time to devote themselves to children, to create legal assumptions for better integration and children with disabilities and minorities in our education system and all that we should actually do this year if we want to respect the documents that have been adopted in the Croatian Assembly. And if what the prime minister said in his opening speech in the Parliament when he represented the government is true, which is that education is his priority over priorities. Unfortunately, however, all the moves that come into this House and this legal solution also says that unfortunately, education somewhere at the bottom of a priority scale, not only education, but children and their parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28277	I thank my dear colleague Sabina the Voice. The reply to the replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28278	Dear colleagues, I can tell you that I fully agree with your presentation. I simply don't understand how that the HDZ colleagues are so deaf that they don't hear and understand what they're being told all the time, that I can't understand that these amendments to the law will not change anything and that the problems in school exist, that children in schools are hungry, that teachers and teachers are systematically demoted, that children who are objects or subjects of the whole story of the education system don't decide at all, have no right to represent themselves in school councils, etc. And even in colleges, here's what I don't know if any of the HDZ colleagues know there's a student representative out there who's co-determining in college administrative decisions, but in schools, no, I don't know why. And I repeat, if I can, if the minister can prescribe, I call for it to be softer to the students, simply to tell the children that they can also copy or finally replace that minister and that in fact break this farce where the weakest members of society are trained by rigor, and big fish like Eve Sanader are seen through the fingers. And we see that the Supreme Court releases HDZ, the Constitutional Court releases HDZ, destroys all judgments, and at the same time loses judgments in international courts, there was no public debate. The question of why we lost the arbitration dispute and billions of dollars is not being discussed. There's a debate about this pile of paper, that's what's being discussed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28279	I would like to thank my dear colleague Pernar, and I would like to remind you of your misbehavior in the Croatian Parliament and please stay away from such behaviours in the future. Thank you very much. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Blaženko Boban, answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28280	Since pedagogical measures in the primary and secondary schools of Mr. Pernar probably didn't help my replica, so I'm giving up on her.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28281	I thank my esteemed colleague, Blazen Boban, for contributing to this debate. Next to the replica came the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28282	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, at the end of this debate today, you said what we knew at the very beginning, which is that the real problems in Croatian education are not solved. And what you mentioned is that students don't have a school meal that costs 60 or 70 kuna a month. If we were here today to discuss it all day and that, of course, everyone was involved, that they were present, I believe that we could somehow solve this problem. But here's what we've been discussing is whether it's necessary to license the director or not to do what's right if it's carried out it wouldn't bring any particular benefit. All children in Croatia, from first to last, would have a free meal to invest 400 million kuna a year. This is Erste Bank's annual profit, only one single bank in the Republic of Croatia. How much is a person sharing that profit? How many people do you share that 400 million kuna? And how many hundred thousand children would that amount be divided into if this country were willing to separate it? This country pours money out of the sleeves when it's necessary to build some arenas that are now rotting like a mockery of big cities. There's money for the Peljek Bridge which, frankly, may be translated twice in our lives, at least we who don't live there. He's got money to buy INA as soon as the arbitration goes down. Here are the Hungarians today said one billion and 900 million euros. It will be found immediately, a commission will be established. Why not establish a committee for hungry children? Let's make Prime Minister Plenkovic president of this committee. I would also like to participate, and I would like us to experience it during this term, that such problems are being solved in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28283	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28284	Yes, here I call on this Croatian Parliament to create an investigative committee on why children in schools are starving and why the state does not finance their meals. As well as my colleague Bunjac, I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic to lead the commission. But I'm afraid, Mr. Bunyan, that it won't happen after all? And you know why? So Prime Minister Plenkovic said yesterday what is the priority of his government -- the fight against the demagogue, the fight against the populists, the fight against us from the Living Wall. He threatened to force the entire government to break us down, suppress us, reduce the number of our MPs, keep our voice from being heard. Here's the dear lady and gentlemen of HDZ I see you're very agile and I'll show you now what a debate will look like without me. I will go to you nicely, I will grant you today the wish of Mr Plenkovic and more of my wisdom, that is, as you say, the anarchist is talking nonsense here, it will no longer be heard during this debate, and you will report nicely for the word, replicate yourself, and enjoy this radical kind of democracy where the prime minister threatens with political reckoning, by instrumentalising state institutions means the Ministry of Justice, the police and whatnot, the entire government rather than dealing with the problem of hungry children in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28285	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply to the replicas. I'm sorry he's leaving work, but we're moving on. Who's not here? Without him, you can. The following has appeared for an individual discussion by distinguished counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's hard to continue to discuss seriously after this discussion that discussed everything and at least what this law is talking about. First of all, the law should follow the Law on the Assessment of Legal Effects, which means that it should have been in public consultation and that all those interested should have time and say something about this bill. There are three articles, or four, that are quite short to allow people to measure their view of the bill. We have also been provided with an analysis of the public debate on 160 pages and a proposal for a law which does not contain this Article 2. Therefore, Article 126a. It's wiped out. It's in the bill of law that was held at a public hearing, it doesn't exist. There it stood to be prolonged, so the application of licensing for 1.1.2020. What has happened in these months or two since the public debate was concluded that the article of the law has changed and is now proposed to completely delete the licensing. Is it the fear of the ruling that they will not be able to entangle these 150 or 200 directors to whom the principal's internship is due this year, or is it a desire to complete licensing in Croatia to move away. There's one saying that all of us who may be a little older, who have watched TV shows so there's one Montenegrin series by the way in Montenegro there's been licensing for a long time, which Jackna says hasn't died yet, and when we don't know. So probably licensing with this law didn't die, but when we also don't know, it's probably buried for a while. Because if in the bill of law you gave yourself a four-year period to establish a license in Croatia within that four-year period, it would be interesting for the secretary of state to tell us what happened in those months and a half or two days after the debate was concluded that Article 2 was changed which is now very clearly saying that licensing is being lifted. You can tell how much you want it to stay an article, that it needs to be implemented and set up a licensing system. And when you don't have a deadline, you'll probably never establish it because to go back to what was going on before, so here I would go back far, far back to the past there in 1993, so 24 years ago, it was an obligation to take the principal's exam, then at that time and then took the principal's exam. Not only that, in 1993, a school for directors was introduced, which was shut down after two years with a statement by the HDZ minister who said what school would do to directors. The directors are appointed according to political will, and they are obliged to respond to those who have appointed them, and there is no need for them to be in school and to learn something. And that's what's happening now, we closed the circle back in 1994 when the school for directors was abolished, we're going back to having the directors set up for political resemblance. I will quote a statement by one of our very respected Professor Stancic, who said here I quote, "Employers are the only employees in school who have no specific knowledge". And that's true. Both teachers and educators and other school workers have specific skills, have pedagogical education, and the directors are the only ones who don't have it and that's what the promoter himself had to know. It is true that since 2008 we have not established a system, it is true, and we are all carrying part of the responsibility. There is now no more or less, but I think we should take a step forward, this government to make its goal very clear to the extent that the licensing system itself should be established in Croatia. And we in the opposition wouldn't say a word about it, they would withdraw their law and vote for this law. This way, we can't get the impression that we're continuing with the policy that is, and that's that in Croatia we're setting directors on political duty. In 2012 the system itself was launched and it is true as much as you from HDZ are trying to say that nothing was done, three key parts of the licensing were delivered, so a standard of occupation, a standard of qualification, and licensing models were delivered. You have a finished product. Is it not possible to set a time limit for this product to be implemented? But here, we've stopped the curative reform, we'll stop the licensing, we'll go back. It is clear that a conservative revolution in Croatia is something you can see, what you feel, and that is what we must see through this law. It stops progressively what will help make our schools better because the principals are not only the ones who hire, noting that directors are the ones who are responsible for the quality of the people they hire, that we are not talking about hiring brothers, uncles, nephews and all others. There's even so-called. A pillar of shame from primary and secondary schools, which instead of a technological surplus were employed by other teachers outside that technological surplus, which says that directors needed to be professionalised and it was the only dam against political influence, against nepotism, against employment and by party, and by family, and by neighbouring and that I don't know which other line. Because the professional director is the one who's been trained to do so, and in that way we'll avoid everything that's justified to us citizens, but also teachers who repeatedly complain that they can't get a job at school if you don't know the principal. The cleaning woman cannot be employed at school without the political will of a particular mayor or mayor, mayor and everything else. Therefore, HDZ is in power in most counties, therefore this is what you have inauguration and therefore you are doing this now so that you do not want to set up a licensing system in Croatia. Professionalisation of directors moves political influence and not only that but also leads schools to be better, to have schools managed according to the proper master, but on the other hand it also changes the role of the Governing Council of schools that would then play a completely different role than it does now because it is now under the influence of politics, we know it and it is no unknown in Croatia. So, I'm sorry that HDZ obviously gave in this month and a half of the day under the influence apparently inside the base because I say 200 directors are now on the re-election, so if you'd started licensing then probably some of them might not have been able to get the license, so I'm sorry that you didn't make one step that you did when you gave the law to the public debate, where you said that the licensing was delayed until 1.1.2021. Apparently, she said, "Jackna hasn't died yet, and when we don't know," we can say on this law, licensing didn't die, but when she does, we don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28287	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28288	You wonder if such a law is proposed that HDZ could arrest two hundred more people or that for another four years, it could be political personnel in schools when it comes to principals. I don't believe it because to accept that proposal we offer, set the deadline for the last day of the HDZ mandate, not the last, last day of the HDZ term. They could do it for the next four years. Therefore, that is not the reason. I think the reason is something else, one indifference at the HDZ Club that they didn't notice what Minister Barisic was planting on them because if they noticed it then they'd say so give Barisic so what's not enough of what you're doing, all the TVs, all the radios, all the newspapers deal with you, for days everyone's been writing about how you're a copyist. He can't do this in the morning without at least a dozen questions about you. So now you're still doing this to us, even that shame to delete the date by which the document should be brought that the directors must obtain the certificates. Well someone would tell Barisic enough is enough, so stop embarrassing us, so here four hours and how many hours we've been discussing, we've been discussing one stupid thing all day. You agree that the certificates are required and you will not determine that the last date of the certificate is the last day of the government's power. And I still expect the prime minister, so here's what I believe is the vice president of the Parliament, and I believe that he saw it and that he realized that he would call the prime minister and tell him to pull, say, call the deputy and tell him to withdraw that law so we don't be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28289	I thank the esteemed representative Stazic for this replica. Reply Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28290	Dear fellow Stazic, that Minister Barisic is a ballast to the government, a ballast to the parliamentary majority, and I think it would best be to do what an honorable man does, and it is to resign and release the government of that ballast that exists and that will last until the end of the term, but it is not my problem with the Minister Barisic, everyone will in a certain way endure that burden on the back but I worry about the system, I am concerned about the system of education and education on which he is headed because the system will suffer because it will not be able to manage the system and do those reforms in the system that should be done when you have such a burden on your back that, despite all attempts, you will obviously not be able to remove. So I think that the best move would be for Minister Barisic to resign and to have someone else's opportunity to introduce licensing, reform education, return curricula reform and move Croatia into an educational system that is examples of one European Union country, not to mention a Finnish model that should seek and change Croatian schools to get out of Croatian schools people who are able to immediately go to the labour market and work on the labour market and find a job and work. Unfortunately, our system does not do that, Minister Barisic, who is obviously a plagiarizer, will not at least plagiarise the Finnish system of education might be easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28291	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Davor Vlaovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28292	Thank you. Vice President! Dear fellow Mrsic, I agree with you that we urgently need to resolve how our schools are managed because here is the debate that has been encouraged, so it has been looked at and triggered a debate between parents and teachers, and among teachers and directors, they report, send messages and expect us to get rid of the school management model as soon as possible. Everyone agrees that our schools should be led by a man who is respected above all by his collective, who has certain expertise and who should be licensed and should be defined as soon as possible because we cannot stop the further development of our education system, create equal conditions for education in all regions because you still have district schools where chalk is written on a regular board while in some schools there are both smart records and a lot of other technologies and teaching aids, while some of them are missing. But it should also be possible for that director, given that he is only the first among the equal in his collective to motivate his colleagues to transfer their knowledge and skills to those students who are our goal above all, to enable them to continue their professional training, to enable them to go to different seminars and to give them adequate pay. That by reducing the resources for education, probably those of our future licensed directors won't be able to. So here is an appeal to all of us that both in this law and in the next laws, and even in the budget, more resources are allocated to the education system, for science, because it is the only way we can achieve the goal of having high-quality educated generations that will be employed on the labour market. And also, I don’t think any of the children should be hungry because here’s one parent asks the question “If prisoners in prison have the right to a free meal why doesn’t every child have the right to a free meal at school?” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28293	I thank my esteemed colleague Davor Vlaovic for his replica. Reply Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28294	Thank you very much. My colleague Vlaović, I fully agree with this last finding, our students have and should have the right to a free meal with those who have more that they can participate then and those who do not have to then be completely free of meals at school, that is the government's thing whether the government has the means to do so, I believe that there is and if there is to buy cars there for this and on the other hand it will help and develop our village because we are a country that must be much stronger agriculturally than it is now. So we do two good things with it. But as far as licensing is concerned, directors should be professionals, as management is being taught. You have two or three categories of directors. One who is God-given directors because they have this ability, to operate, to know with people, to be able to run. You have another extreme that those who don't know what to do don't know how to run it. They're just not that kind of people. And then you have one great majority of directors who, if you give them the opportunity to learn and give them the tools to work with them, will be excellent directors as well as those who are given God to be directors. And that's what HDZ needs to do. We can't get the impression that this is only done so that political staff can be re-occupied and that directors can be hired again by similarity, and then it goes from the principal to hiring professors, teachers, cleaners, janitors and all, and none of that employment will go without the political approval of any mayor, mayor, mayor or mayor that I already know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28295	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for his reply to the replica. The next line came from a colleague named Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28296	You asked your colleague Miranda what happened in a month and a half that the government had so radically changed its position from that draft of the deadline that it would extend the license for 2021 until it completely gave up any deadline that could be read to give up the license. So when we look at public consultation with the interested public, it is clear, of the 140 proposals that have been received where even 129 unions, various school employees asked to redefine Article 75 to return to the correctional exams, nothing the Ministry nor the Government has responded to these 75% of the same proposals. But it's on one. One single proposal, which was accepted from the public debate, was the proposal of the president of the Croatian Catholic Society of Educational Workers, who in his own statement said: "The licence is by all means only one condition for the director, nothing is obtained with it." Furthermore, "It can be a pointless waste of time, resources, effort, maintenance of existing destructive relations, an undesirable situation in the school system that has been seriously collapsing under the pressure of the SDP in recent years, Jokic emptys the harmful CKR and pointless action." The only condition for the Ministry to listen to you, to appoint you Secretary of State as Alumic is that what you further spit on the entire curative reform. And what I'm wondering is, who manages the education system in the Republic of Croatia? Is there an education policy in Mark's square or from the Capitol? And is it possible that HDZ's peaceful kickings are watching Oak run education policy through the Ministry of Science and Education and wants children to make beech? Is it possible that HDZ allows and suffers this much damage because of them?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28297	I thank my dear colleague Sabina the Voice. Reply Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28298	Well, dear colleague Glasovac obviously has a form of conservative revolution that we see and sits there, one of the representatives of our fellow parliamentary representative who I expect to have a replica of him. It's clear, everyone's legitimate to do that. So it's a matter of conviction but it's a question of whether Croatian citizens want it or not, and you can't impose your opinion on most citizens. Yes, you have stopped the curricula reform and you want the same thing to happen with the licensing that exists on paper without ever being revived and never being applied in Croatia. What I would ask the Secretary of State if he were to address himself at the end of everything, to tell us very clearly what happened in those months and a half that they had changed Article 2 and sent him to the Parliament in this way, especially since there was no requirement in the public debate that this article was completely deleted or that it was perhaps the fear of Minister Barisic not to say that there was plagiarizing what the SDP had given in the 15.12 procedure, so there was no more plagiarism to assess whether the HDZ had written a different law under the pressure of the SDP. Just to be different, but it's in scientific work it's a good thing and in scientific papers you don't plagiarize things, you don't prescribe other people's things. But here it would have been good if you'd copied what we predicted, or if you'd stayed on what was in the public debate, which means that it remains 1.1.2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28299	I thank Mr. Miranda Mrsic for his reply. You've got nice escapades in this exhibit of yours and the answers where you get around the subject a little bit, but then come back. Here I'd just like to ask you not to go too far into extremes to stick to the subject. We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrsic, yes, what you said about actually effective license killing and about how wrong it is, we've actually already had a chance to hear today from fellow Stazic once, but I would remind you anyway. So we have the freshest example of how important this is. In a school in Sibenik, a principal banned an exhibition about Anna Frank called “The History of the Present. ” I apologize, I will remain within the framework of Article 232. The word of honor is a brief illustration, under the exception of that, he said: “It bothers him that fascists are shown better than antifascists and it turns out that they killed Jews, Roma and starved children.” This is one principal, who came out of the mouth of a school principal. So such a licensing process would enable us to see, among other things, whether people in this kind of sense are capable of acting on such important duties and working with our children in the end line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28301	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bojan Glavasevic. She says the folk is repeating her mother's knowledge. We've already heard it from a respected fellow Stazic, but here we are glad you've repeated it for Sibenik. ... Thank you very much. [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] These are your style locks. But let's let our distinguished colleague Miranda Mrsic respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28302	Thank you very much. Because if this director from Sibenik had been in the licensing system, regardless of the model one or two, then he would probably have been taught tolerance, he would have been taught Croatian history, regardless of political belief, and it would have been likely that the entire licensing system would not have occurred to him and that in such a way represented certain political views, it was just another proof that the directors were elected politically, the political force was clearly elected by the director no matter where and how, I'm not saying whether they are HDZ, HNS, SDP, but we all clearly have influence. But it is certain that what happened in Sibenik does not serve honor neither the director nor the city of Sibenik nor the Republic of Croatia because history cannot be changed, Anna Frank is one symbol of resistance, a symbol of something that should not and should not have happened and the other one that is related to Croatia is a Croatian history that you can interpret in one way or another, but the fact is that the partisans were anti-fascists and that the Ustashas were fascists. And that's something you can't change, so you just forbid it for as many years as you want. I'm saying, if this principal had been licensed, it wouldn't have happened because it wouldn't have occurred to him because it's something that's not part of school and school education, but politics, and it can work outside of school in its own party.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28303	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for his reply. Next to the replica, the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28304	Thank you very much. Here, I'll come back a little bit, Mrsic, he's been to partisans and Ustashas, fascists and anti-fascists, I'd go back to part of your presentation. You said that mostly the directors of their political people fall in love because they are politically and put up depending on the institution that they are. of school owners and that is a fact, and here I agree 100% with you, mostly here in my Split-Dalmatia County in which case HDZ is in power but this morning I apologized so I will repeat as the vice president said she was the mother of repetition. In the elementary school "Fra Pavlo Vucković" in Sinj, there were two candidates for directors, HDZ and SDP. And of course they chose HDZ's member because the county in Sinj owns it. In Split, however, he was the mayor of the SDP in power. That SDP that he lost, he became headmaster at the Split school while SDP was mayor, so he didn't come out, you didn't kick him out, he was still, he was right for you. So, I agree that it is fully entrenched, that the decentralised funds that go to the county and founders, to be used by whom it is sought and by the political key, but it is true that in your counties where you behave in the same way as in your ministry when you were certainly employed by employees, you are certainly employees, and those you hired from Sinja in your ministry, you must have hired them by the Holy Spirit rather than by membership card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28305	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the replica. Reply Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28306	Repitio est dog mother studiorum", it is but obvious that you took it literally so you looked up to your older brother in the HDZ coalition, so in Croatian waters you went to hire a godfather or I don't know which one of Mr. Petrov. So the worst thing is when they're talking to someone and giving someone away without looking behind them. She has a Chinese woman who says: “Do not throw stone at the neighbor’s house if it is yours. ” Well, Mr. Bull, I think we should do that when you're replicating it. I did not talk about who worked, when I was in my discussion that the directors were under political pressure and that the directors were in power regarding Split the director was elected to the competition and what the SDPs should be ashamed of if we choose someone in the competition who is a member of the SDP. If the competition is conducted in order and there's no reason not to, and we don't mind choosing someone that's HDZ. But again, we're back to it now, which is why we need licensing, which is why we need to have this system that I hope you won't raise your hand for this law but that you will raise your hand for the law that we have proposed, which means that the licensing is introduced as soon as possible in Croatia to prevent these excesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28307	I thank my esteemed colleague Miranda Mrsic for his reply. And we have the last line, distinguished colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28308	Dear, dear fellow Mrsic, let me tell you first at the beginning of the next one. After the entry into force of these transitional and completed provisions on 1 January 2017, no director in Croatia has a license, in fact no one has the conditions to work, so that simply because it has already been passed, it can only be actually brought to what we are doing to change this article of this law. So these are some basic things you need to know. I'm very glad that you SDP notice that we are in the Oak, which means that we are in the other opposite part of the political spectrum that we are actually imploding, the further we are from you than we prefer. You were talking about the conservative revolution. Well, maybe it's a counter-revolution because we've had a liberal revolution for 20 years, so it was logical that a counter-revolution would happen eventually. And when we talk about your colleague's opinion, Glasovac has greatly disturbed the opposite of the opinion of a Croatian Catholic society of educators and is an immediate problem. It's you who swear on liberalism, and you don't really respect other people's opinions, and on the other hand, other conservatives who, too, resent being conservatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28309	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic for his replica. The answer is for a dear colleague of the Voice, or are you going to be Mr. Mirsic?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28310	I'll do it because that's what the Rules of Procedure is like.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28311	Okay. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28312	Although it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because it's a commentary of someone else's discussion, you could have, a replica of someone else, expected replica. So I think that the HDZ colleagues here should be concerned because you said that 20 years in Croatia is the work of a liberal revolution if I understand it well? Well, obviously, I don't know what order you're in Croatia for, so do you want socialism back or do you want something else to go back to? I don't quite understand your finding, so it might be convenient to elaborate it in some kind of discussion. Of course, the problem with the government's unhappiness and the government that was before he was Minister Sustar. So he's as sassy as I know he is. So the minister who is now, obviously didn't do their job, because if they were doing their job, then this amendment to the law would have been before. As I noted in the public debate was the date of the second and that is the matter and the dissatisfaction of the Government which both before and now did not bother to have these three articles of the law in the Assembly come as soon as possible or it is quite an urgency to do the licensing and that the only license that directors need is the HDZ and Mosta party card.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28313	Thank you, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, for your reply. They say the carpenter's a lizard, not a roach, so here's how they know that Minister Shustar isn't a carpenter even though his name is so named, and the carpenter's a lizard. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debates. The individual debate was attended by a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28314	Thank you very much. Here's what we're talking about... Director. [[You don't understand.]] I see that my predecessor waved about letting go of all political options except for his in which he was employed during the ministry, as well as for the director of the Holy Spirit. So I could say from an example, I personally have a list of independents in Sinj. My councilman doesn't work, and there's a professor who's 40. So I'll be back on the subject a little bit. The problem, Mr. Secretary, is respected by the decentralised resources that go to the founders. That's the key problem of the story. The problem is that these decentralised funds when they come to the county, which is an example of the Split-Dalmatia County is exclusively shared by the political key directors... Sets the HDZ, in the town of Split, the SDP, or in other SDP counties, but I am now talking about my counties. [[You don't understand.]] So, of course, I'm sorry that there are no colleagues Boban that we have two, three, four schools, five schools in Solin, while in the hinterland of Cetina and other parts, the Imot area and other areas where there are no mayors and mayors from that political option, of course, the directors in that case, and these mayors are struggling to get certain benefits. to get an equal distribution of those funds. So certain cities have founding rights, and some don't. So what are the criteria? How is it possible that all of them by their rules, and the ones on the right and on the left, have not so far changed the rules on transportation, for example. the student. The elementary school kids don't have the right to transport for up to three kilometers. It is easier to organize it much in Zagreb because it is a millionth city and it is free of charge. However, in areas where there is no footholds, where there is no lighting and within three kilometers where the forest is, where parents have no money is this problem huge. These are undeveloped areas that my Split-Dalmatia County forgot, so of course the Ministry forgot. Free textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28315	Excuse me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28316	How possible that in the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28317	Buddy Bull, just a little bit. I'd like to ask you distinguished colleagues to allow my colleague Bula to continue the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28318	How can we have free textbooks in the City of Zagreb in certain areas? So we have an example in my area where areas of hill-mounted areas where people have no conditions or jobs, where parents have a hard time living, these children have no organised transportation, while in Zagreb we have free textbooks, we have in certain schools which is good and positive we have food and food. Some kind of baby-secured marend, while we don't have any in those parts. For what? Because everything is centralized. So I would ask you to think very carefully about this by regionally, undeveloped areas that cannot be reached that is Lika, Gorski Kotar where it is simply unorganized and the transport system to help these regions and to help them with that rule by the development index. That's what you have to do. And directors named under the applicable law are hiring on school boards and appointing people, which are founders of counties and cities. And so they hire all the founding either in the SDP County, or in the county where the HDZ is in power. These are facts and it's very easy to verify. We can freely check in my county who the principals are, everyone who has, who's in power, in which case HDZ. That's what SDP tried to set up an office, decentralisation state administration offices around the county. Well, let's just say, in Sinj my city, we have 29 employees in the Office of State Administration. People literally don't know what they're doing. In Sinj City, employees. Of course, they named their "Holy Spirit" Mr. Velja Radojković was then named "The Spirit of the World" and not on the party card most likely because of the good qualifications, because of the good effects, but the fact that you devote, I ask you once again, in undeveloped areas where children have no halls, have no conditions where I can play and agree with the work when we talk about sports halls that have been built here, the arenas for handballs that are burdened by Croatian society and today a billion kuna at the level of the year, to devote yourself to it. I'm sorry he's not the minister here to point out these problems. And I would like you to visit those parts of the Dalmatian hinterland, like, the Gorski Kotar and Slavonia, which is increasingly empty and unfortunately more schools we have which are empty, regional schools where there were once many children, where there was a children's cry and that's one of the reasons why young people don't start their families but either come to Zagreb and bigger centres or go to third countries. And as for the director, it would certainly be good for them to be professionalised and to be systematically introduced, but this is a priority that I said first and this way, as is now the functioning of employment i.e.. The appointment of school boards where we have three founders, where we have a parent representative, employee representatives is simply political imposition and a political directive towards directors who simply are not obedient, if they are not employed in this way, will simply be replaced and that is the fact, and that is why we will all agree here, either on the left or on the right. These are facts and there is a need to make sure that it no longer happens, in which way it is professionalized. How many deadlines should be introduced, to be professionalized, in which way, I don't know how to check who doesn't have a card, who's going to prescribe the criteria in which way we should discuss it. But please, on behalf of these people, I would like to point out once again that you pay attention to these areas where schools are closed and where villages and hearths fail and because children cannot be educated and do not have the same conditions that the Constitution guarantees as in Zagreb, which is positive and I am glad that it is in Zagreb, but I am saddened that these ends are leaving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28319	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull, for the debate. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28320	Thank you. Vice President of the Parliament! Comrade Bulj, I will say as I told the deans, the school principals that they should be elected, that teachers or teachers should choose, those who work in those schools. But that's not what I'm gonna say right now. Gentlemen, why we don't have halls, why we don't have good schools, why our children are hungry. It's not a question that we're discussing today for 8 to 10 hours and we're probably not going to change anything, it's going to stay the same as it was. But why don't we have it? Well, we don't have anyone in this country paying taxes and liabilities and someone paying. I would never have entered this House as a businessman if I had remained in debt to this country. However, people here who came from a closer family had 10 million taxes unpaid to the state and moral disciplines held us and the Croatian people here in this House. I'm asking you gentlemen now how long we're going to spread morality from ourselves and we haven't begun morality. These people at the entrance here are frozen literally, no one could put a heat curtain on them for 20 years, they spend more electricity than they should and what people freeze I see every day. We know how to talk and we're not going to go by ourselves. Gentlemen, the problem is with us, it's not a problem that we've been talking all day and we're not going to solve anything. We'll go home, the people saw us, they said we didn't solve anything. I see this as a businessman as a man who worked every 40 years every day, stood up and worked fairly for this country and paid for everything, please check me out. I'm not ashamed of anyone here or in the Croatian state, but I'm ashamed to listen to this when I see the names of professors, doctors, minor carpenters tell him it's not him, it's plagiarism. Everyone has the right to say there's a thief in this country even though there's no information about it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28321	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic, for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28322	My colleague Misic, the subject of this debate really wasn't former Minister Mrsic's wife, but the amount of 10 million you mentioned if the truth is a huge amount with which a lot of investment in school could be made, but I especially respect you as an entrepreneur and indeed entrepreneurship, mainly in undeveloped areas, is banked and this is one of the conditions for which people in the economy like you are not, have no incentives in these areas and should certainly invest as much in these areas as possible. But I agree with you completely, really, when we look at these counties, and they let the administrations that are decentralised I don't know what they're doing to keep these people from coming to work, not to waste their electricity, not to spend their shoes, transporting cars would certainly be enough money for free meals in these areas of children and for the transport of students free of charge, there would certainly be enough resources. So are the county. In the counties, those who lose elections at local level and similar similar to those who become or are appointed to companies, in the county, so they are unnecessary things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28323	I thank you for your response to my distinguished colleague, Bull. The next call came from distinguished counterpart Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28324	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulju, I have three brief remarks. The first is actually similar to what your colleague, the Voicer who is not here, said the same thing this morning when you mentioned - and there's a colleague of the Voice - when you mentioned textbooks and diets, which is that many of these problems are not really being regulated by what we're talking about today, but are mainly in the jurisdiction of local or regional self-government. But you're absolutely right when you point out that there are some cities like this. Zagreb has so much that in the election time other cities such as Petrinja just happen to have coalition partners, otherwise it is not here, and sits with us, paying for those books as well. And it needs to be changed. And about that, in fact, and for yours, the continuation of your exposure you occasionally forget that the Bridge is part of this government. It was part of the past. So all the problems you're perceiving can be solved in a conversation with a minister who is ultimately your choice. And when you talk about employment, it's not SDP's problem. It just doesn't exist, it's about our exception, not the rule, but the problem is HDZ. But when you talk about it, I have to admit that sometimes it sounds more like envy to me than it does to highlight the problem. But here's the thing, if God gives a colleague of the Grmoy a chance to become mayor one day, then I guess we'll be able to sort it out somehow. Here, I was illustrating. This is the last of my observations was in a bit of a cynical tone. Of course I don't think these things should be dealt with that way. Just an honest colleague, Bulj, and only bravely in conflicting opinion with your coalition partners. Just brave.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28325	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bojana Glavasevic, for the replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28326	Thank you very much for asking my colleague Glavasevic and those observations. But let me tell you a little bit. So as for the free textbooks themselves who donate certain cities to the pre-election campaign, it is an indicator that the system is messy and certainly better introduced there he was in his constituency, his friend Mr. Dumbovic could explain it better, or Nikola because he was his opponent in the area. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not addicted. Yes, of course. I just said that really in the county and state offices of the administration, we have a number of people who don't know what they're doing. Well, they ain't got no business, man. Maybe people are good enough to redistribute them. The fact in Sinj in one city 29 employees of the Office of State Administration, and the Office of State Administration was established and pro pro proposed to deconcentrate the late Racan Government at the time. Power in the field. Well, I said, for example. ... It is certainly appointed by the Holy Spirit, not by membership card for the head of the Office of State Administration of Split-Dalmatia County and so on. [[You don't understand.]] Surely these are unnecessary functions. I'm not saying that there are no high-quality people who need to be rerouted to other places, and many should really stay at home and be less cost and in terms of heating, transportation,... and other expenses. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28327	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Next to the replica, an esteemed colleague, Ante Sanader, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, you say the Split-Dalmatia County is divided by a political key. It is true that the Split-Dalmatia County has one big problem really for which I do not know how it will be solved, which is that of 55 cities and municipalities 39 is HDZ in power. It's really one big political probably problem and maybe that's the problem when you think, when you say it's divided by a political key. I am responsible for saying that in the Split-Dalmatia County it is not divided by political key. And I'll make the arguments, and you give the counterarguments. So the investment whenever we speak here is the topic of education, so the investment was on Solta and the halls and schools, and on Komiza, in Hvar and in Supetar, in Bol and in Šedanovac, and in Muć, in Tucepi, in Makarska, and in Podgorica. So, all those cities and municipalities where the HDZ is not in power were evenly represented, and you can get information about this in Split-Dalmatia County for every year as much as invested in any city, and in which municipality when it comes to this or anything else. What you're talking about is that some of them have free textbooks. So you should ask yourself that Zagreb has 8 billion budgets and Split-Dalmatia County 180 million. There's a problem and there's us cut off. You can talk about it, not about sharing political similarities in Split-Dalmatia County. School boards, obviously you don't know the situation because you know how to choose school boards. Three selections of chambers, one chosen by parents, and three chosen by the founder. So the majority owner is not the founder. And what kind of political resemblance is that? So you underestimate the professor that they're fools ordered by some political party. Well most of all, they choose their representatives. Parents also choose their representatives. But I'm saying, the problem is that 39 towns and municipalities of the HDZ, so you might see that the unfortunate population of the HDZ is committed, so they choose even some parent who is HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28329	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader for this replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28330	As a longtime mayor, you are familiar with the fact that the territory of Cetinska krajina is here I am talking about my end and on schooling, and home to health, and the abolition of maternity care, and the attempt to abolish the stationary – if I hadn't engaged as an activist today, there would be no sonic alkars and children born in Sinj – because of this you know these events you were mayor. You didn't have the courage then to resist your minister, Mr. Milinović, who is still under the pressure of the people and the activists still left the birthplace and the Alkars are still born in Sinj, unfortunately in a much smaller number than before because people leave these parts after she forgot the county of Sinj and Cetinski end of most, except somewhere, you might see where the halls were built, how much they were financed, which the municipalities, look at... And look at my city, look at it and come to dialysis, look at the schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a school in Sinj for example, so I got nothing against people, maybe they're the best people, not one of them is the director without your party's membership card. I'm not mad at that. Also, you must know that in the county all the mayors who lost the election, who were in power where they went. Shall we pick it up? I won't, I won't do it for a reason, so here's the public fire department, we can also talk about it, you're like the fireman of our county, meaning the decentralised assets of 302 million kuna, the largest county of Split-Dalmatia Fireman and Split-Dalmatia County, Mr. Sanader, just two public fire departments, and thank God after a hard fight and the public fire department of Sinj because the Cetina region, but you've braked it, I'm sorry, but here we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28331	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. I would really ask you to stick to the topic discussed today and leave the representation of certain parties at local or regional level for other topics. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Darko Paric reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28332	Thank you. Mr. Vice President! Comrade Bulj, when it comes to demagogy in this House, you absolutely deserve every respect that can be given to man in this area. You have explained all the problems wonderfully, you have made the difference between schooling in Dalmatia Zagora, Split, Zagreb and Slavonia, you have wonderfully listed the causes of problems from municipalities, cities, municipalities, local self-government, administration, ministries and all, you have even asked the Secretary of State to solve all this together to help with the new law and I don't know what to do. And it would be wonderful if you were sitting here next to me in the section of the Assembly where the opposition is, if you sat down I'd say Miro well said this, it's wonderful. However, as it has already been said several times that repeating the mother of knowledge, to repeat this is the second government in which you are the government, this is the second government where you are able to correct such things. I assure you that this government will one day end, then some other Miro Bulj will come and ask you what you've done, sit down two governments already, say what you need to say and you haven't done anything. I would really ask you to do your speeches in the future that you are very well aware that you are part of the government and that all those problems ahead of us can be solved and you can stick to it. And he would also ask you, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, that colleagues be delivered to Bulju on the bench of the list of us sitting in the Parliament, and that it is clearly indicated by the color of where the government is and where the opposition is so that he knows that he is sitting where the government is and that you can prepare his speech in the future. And you can't sit on the side of the Parliament that's the government and give a speech like you're an opposition, it's at least interesting, not to say which harder word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28333	I thank Mr. Parisic for this field lecture to Mr. Bull. I hope he doesn't charge you for this lecture. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28334	Thank you very much for your compliments and compliments. Yes, that's why Croatian society is in this state what you want to color who is the opposition and who is the power of Croatian parliamentary representatives because when you're in power then you're doing the click, you're saying what belongs to the authorities. I'm a parliamentary representative who didn't vote for the budget, do you understand? You'll never have the courage to be in power. Here, I guarantee you, you won't have the courage. You may be able to do that in Split when a strong figure is removed and you are appointed president, Commissioner, I voted again. But once again I thank you for all the praises and indeed this thinking has brought Croatian society here where it is. We are parliamentary representatives of our voters who gave us the legitimacy to agree and disagree whether the SDP secretary, HDZ, is with the opposition, is with the government. It's mine to ask and demand and so it will be in the future and you will not teach me how to behave because you have no right to do so. And you draw red, blue, green, yellow. I'm responsible for those voters down there, and I'm not afraid of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28335	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Damir Tomic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28336	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, you told your colleague now, Mr. Paris, that when you're in power, you won't be working on a wedge, but it's really not the point, you've re-mixed the pots and what your colleague said you've turned to your advantage. No one said that you should not speak or agree with the opinion of the ruling HDZ, but your colleague wanted to remind you that you are part of the government and that it is not the point of the story that you agree or disagree here but to take what you need to do to change things for the better. All those things you pointed out to us as an opposition when we were government or HDZ when he was power and now he's power. But that's not why I answered, but I wanted to say something that was constructive in your part of the debate, and it was a small impact of local self-government and non-initiative municipalities and cities that had no influence in the formal legal sense of school management. There's one thing I'd like to suggest to you, and while you're in power, you might be able to get through it. Let the local self-government unit have a representative on the school board, one representative. Of course, it must change the entire structure of the school board but thus not only will the units of local self-government get influence but will receive responsibility. I'll give you an example. You said well that by entering the school the policy created a series of problems, that's true. In particular, I will tell you an example of Osijek-Baranja County and the functioning of a party that slowly disappears from the political scene of Slavonia precisely because you could not get any job at school in Osijek-Baranja County in the last five, six, seven years without being a member of the HDSSB. You have a huge example of both cleaning women and professors, and secretaries from Osijek to other cities working as if other cities didn't have employees in the sector. In particular, the example of Giakov. Djakovo is a city of 30,000 inhabitants and has no influence on education. Our mayor doesn't even want that influence. This way we'll force him to do something for those schools in his area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28337	I thank my esteemed colleague, Tomic, for the replica. Dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28338	Thank you. At first you said again you warned who was in power and who wasn't. But this last part of where you were constructive would really agree that local self-government representatives should also be on the school board and for responsibility because many will run away from responsibility. He says - I raise my hands - so the state does not care. In your case, the HDSSB, in the second county, is SDP, HDZ, or tomorrow Bridge is irrelevant. And local self-government has no concern or concern whatsoever, really this is one of the good proposals, and in this way mayors and elected authorities at local level would be forced to be responsible whether or not they want to, and of course it should be their obligation. And in this way, we would certainly have an obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28339	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Arsen Bauk, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to answer two quotes from my colleague Mira Bulja, although I think he's a little off the subject, so now I'm going to be in danger of making an analogous pass. So, the first thing you said was that you mentioned the head of the Office or acting head of state administration's office in Split-Dalmatia County that he was a member of the SDP and that's exactly what you said. But you didn't say a sentence behind that, which is that during the HDZ government he was the deputy head of the state administration's office and that in 2012, the head of state retired and that the deputy came to her place. So that would change the context of what you said. But here's an example of you two sitting next to a colleague of Grmoy and he certainly knows that the head of the Office in Dubrovnik-Neretva County remained the same as he was during the last HDZ government. Mrs. Strenja-Linić may know that after she remained the same and the chair when she retired to her place, a deputy or assistant state administration's office arrived and I counted there that I am now not listing, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight somewhere around 10 counties in which, therefore, at the heads of the office, state administration remained either old officials or state officials who were high-ranking during the previous government then HDZ in the Offices of State Administration. So it was the official venues in which the competitions were held. Some came from new ones, some from old ones, some from members of the SDP who did not pass. Personally, I was against getting them through because they weren't good on the test, and they were better at some non-partisan. And the number of employees in the state administration's offices during our government's term has been reduced by about 10.15%. So, in 4 years somewhere by 300, then in this year, at least 70 could be reduced in total, and I'm just curious about the result you'd get when you'd ask a representative question. But I don't think so, but here's just for the record to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28341	Thank you very much to my esteemed colleague, Bauk, for the replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28342	I was talking to my colleague Bauk about the moment the office was founded. when they were appointed for the first time to do so as to deconcentrate power because, in most cases, it was during the late Racan Government that most of the counties were at that point in power of the HDZ and it was some kind of illogical establishment of these offices. But because of political control in the field, political options were made. So today I repeat again you know the opportunities below that we will have, and I will repeat to you 29 employees of the state administration office in the City of Sinj without the city administration and without the county administration to what number has gone up. It's a problem, and of course with the appointments after a little bit of each other, a little bit of the other as well as in the ministries, you didn't say anything new. And as for appointments and school boards and this, of course, how where the political option exists in the Split-Dalmatia County is appointed to all school boards, so in the Primorje-Gorski SDP and so will unfortunately remain. So it's not a good system and it's not a good principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28343	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. I would really ask you distinguished colleagues and colleagues who have yet to apply for the replica to stick to the topic of debate and not to go into some other spheres and interpret powers, the choice of state administration, the state administration's office and also the one who discussed Mr. Bulj to also stick to the subject. We're moving on. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28344	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, I've come to you for this remark from a colleague of yours, Radojkovic. He was named three times by the government now that works and she's previous. So he got twice the extension half year and now he's got a third time. I don't know you in your discussions quite often have, equating the SDPs and HDZs. Here's what you were talking about today about appointments related to who's where in power. So are the directors of this political option, you said about Split and the county. Please tell us by what time do you give yourself the time to correct this injustice in Croatia so we don't listen to this for another ten years? If you happen to get another term, then how long will you talk? When is this deadline that you're going to be so nice to talk about here these SDPs are bad there, the HDZs are bad there? When you're gonna make it right, that's what the citizens are interested in. And if you don't correct it. Now you're telling me here's what I'm gonna do next year's Gordane, what's gonna happen next? Are you going to keep talking or will you finally stop talking about it? So we're interested in you specifically because you have to understand, you have a certain responsibility. You're acting here not as an opposition, but even more than an opposition. As an opposition to all opposition, and basically you have a responsibility and as you said on the click you are every Friday. I always see the green on the Bull when you click, except here and there a little toy on white. But the click of Mr. Bulja is usually a click of Mr. Bull on the green. But he also knows white, and I don't know if it's because of Hajduk, as Glavasevic says or because of other things, but you click exactly how HDZ would want you to click. Here, let us know that we know How long will that take? [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28345	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. Luckily, we don't have yellow buttons. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28346	Gordan's caught too much... I'll answer you to this first part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, when you mention the name of the head of the state administration's office I was talking about the timing of the appointment but I spoke critically in the county as well. And just then a surplus was created, I repeat, extra employees today in Sinj small town, you were in Sinj, 29 employees we have and the appointment was how. And I take no responsibility, nor do I vote for green, nor yellow, but I vote for conscience. I didn't vote on the key document. It's not my pride, nor my minus, simply because I have the reasons and the reasons that I explained, that's the first thing. Secondly, even in tax reform, I didn't vote in favour of the law laid down, in key documents, and that's my right. And you can't do that. I know you're the best minister, and that's what I've said at the assessment of me and Mr. Grumoja from the 1990s, and that you as a minister have a huge experience and that you can really judge when someone votes when it's red, when it's white, but you really can't condition someone how they vote and nobody like you can be on the click by now. And I'll give you an example. Here, I would never vote for the biggest robbery, it's a pre-war deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28347	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. The next line came from a distinguished colleague of the goddess Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28348	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament! Dear colleague Bulj, I'm going to have to do a little bit of political work because in fact your whole debate has come down in this way, about this political humanization of everything you're saying. I come from the county where HNS is in power but would completely agree with everything that my colleague Sanader said, which is influenced by the founder, in which way the director is elected, in which way he is employed. If that were true in the political line, then among her colleagues and colleagues from the HNS, she would not have so many professors who are also 40 years old and have not found employment. I responsibly claim that the directors in this way are fine with how they choose and that the school board is drawn up in a way that has three from school and employees one of the parents' representatives and that three from the founders, which is usually true, there I agree with you. If he's in power of the SDP he'll as founder have the most trust in his, HDZ in his, us in his. However, there is no decisive influence here and I am responsible for that, and I also say that because I know about us in Varazdin County when we went to school construction, a consensus has been reached and of 28 units of local self-government only three have no one-way teaching regardless of which options. We in the county have a head of HDZ, the excellent head of Mr. Hudjek who knows the matter, and it doesn't matter what is in HDZ and who is in power. We have free textbooks but not in a way that only some units of local self-government have all of them, but not every year they buy but are given, they leave them for each other with minimal funds. And I claim that only by agreement but not by political line, that I disagree with you, and that this, forgive just one more sentence, given that licensing, I think it will help all of us to improve and make everyone better and compete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28349	I thank my esteemed colleague, Christmas, at least for the replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28350	Thank you very much. My colleague, I would not agree if I had said something populist, I said the problems of my end which is my right as well as your right to point out and it is not nice to have free textbooks like in Zagreb and other developed environments without the state in undeveloped areas making it possible, that's what I was talking about. As far as the principal is concerned, I really can't say they're not many competent people, but politics has made a lot of decisions. But many are competent. As for how to check it out. So you do this in the last five schools about directors, in other companies, you do an audit of employment and you see what party cards are, I think it's very simple, but you don't have to do it for people. But the fact is, I don't want to determine, but I know how the system works. I know in my county, in my city, in the state administration downstairs, I know how it works and how you can get a job. And I have an independent list in Sinj, and I also have a man who's over 40 years old, he's a professor, and he's not working, and I have a sister who's been traveling to Knin since 2007 to work 70 kilometers a day, and it didn't occur to me now that I'm moving something here and I could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28351	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Next to the replica, distinguished counterpart Ivan Šipic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28352	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, I have caught two as well as my colleagues but I will not enter any broader political debates, and what has already been repeated many times today, you two have pointed out, mentioned in your section, which is the transport of children and that children do not have textbooks and many other things. I would like to tell the truth that it is not necessary to generalise the i.e. It is not good to generalise that there are still roles such as the role of local self-government, cities and municipalities. Therefore, if we are talking about the transport of children then we should know that the state is co-financed or funded by 70% and the rest is concerned with both the county and the city, and we will say that in the Cetina area as well as in other cities and municipalities throughout the Beautiful of our many cities and municipalities according to its programme, the social programme that is being brought through the budgets is taking care of its children and their transport and co-financing, here I will say that in us and these cities in the Chetin area except for Sinj from which you come, and we are neighbours know very well that Sinj has invested a little less in that part, but these other cities and municipalities, here I will say my example and I would not agree that we bought books before the election. Here, we bought a million kuna textbook with a budget of 13 million kuna, bought it after the election. So I wouldn't agree with that, they have other examples. Also every year we buy children an update of textbooks because we know what the situation is and you know very well that we are from that area, what is the situation. Therefore, it would be good if our exposure and the pawnage were more constructive and in this point of the agenda, then we wouldn't be able to choose the director to spend so much time and in one way we tire ourselves and especially the people watching us. Therefore, here for the sake of truth it should be said that it is wrong to generalise but that all together should be fixed and much more invested would be possible and we can agree there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28353	I thank my esteemed colleague Šipić for this replica and for his free EPP. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28354	Comrade Šipić, that we are from neighboring cities in the Cetin area only you may live in the other area. You are the mayor, but the fact is, you and I will go to Velvo, we'll go to Vitelić, we'll go to those parts, and you'll see, in Tijarc, where my mother is from, and we'll go to these parts, and you'll see that what you're saying is not true, that there are no children. You don't need to organize any more transportation, there are two, three kids. And if it's normal for you to have free textbooks in Zagreb, because if you give down a million kunas from that poor woman who singles out, I don't know how but you have certain benefits like the Trile for water resources and so on. And that's good for you? I expected you to say that, these are undeveloped areas where people move from. Do you know that every year in your town of Trill, where you are the mayor of fewer children? Well, your schools are closing, and they have free meals for your children traveling from remote parts. Do they have secure free meals? They don't have free-secured meals. The villages of Mayor Trilla are dying for you, raise your voice for Sinj, the Cetinan end and for your Trill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28355	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Zhagar, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28356	Thank you. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament! Dear colleague Bulj, you have indeed opened a very important topic in your debate, at the end of the debate. First of all, I agree with you it would have been much better if he had been here with us today, because we agree that we should not give up the director's license, that's what you said. On the other hand, I've said it many times, and I say again, I'm going to vote for this to be delayed. And why is that? Because I don't even know what's going on and that's the key question. We don't know what kind of licensing procedure that's gonna be. Will he be a permanent improvement and then undergo a certain examination, or will he be a specialist study or a college that we will conduct?- I'm sorry. According to the example of some countries, Slovenia has a national school for directors, Austria Academy for Leaders, Italy exam for directors in front of the state commission, Malta graduate study of school management, Sweden laying down a special college at university level, Lithuania proven competences in management and management. We don't really know who's going to do it right now, whether it's going to be an agency, whether it's going to be the National Centre for External Evaluation, whether it's going to be the Academy of Teacherry, who's going to actually carry out this procedure and in what way. If they knew that, we'd all be much clearer. And what I'm interested in here is, the Secretary of State will have the opportunity to say in the closing statement, if it's been discussed with the union because it's also the subject of collective bargaining because it's again, regardless, it's about directors, it's about some kind of work rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28357	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for the replica. The answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28358	Comrade Sagar, you have come from education to the constituency benches, i.e. You were the mayor. Everything you've said has no reason not to believe that you don't even know what's going to be voted on at this point and what's changing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28359	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. And the last replica of the distinguished colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28360	Thank you, Vice President. Since part of my colleague Bulja's debate I wanted to replicate is already being discussed so that we don't repeat ourselves by giving up on the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28361	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesni Bedekovic, for this contribution. With this, we've exhausted everyone we've reported for discussion. Does the motionary's representative want to give the secretary of state final? No, I don't. Does the representative of the SDP proposer want to give it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Secretary of State Hrvoje Slezak for the opening arguments. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met. With this, we've exhausted all the points for today. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the point – MIP's report Mandate-Immunity Commission. The vote on the debated points will be held at 12 o'clock. Once again, I thank everyone for the debate. I want a nice rest of the day. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted at 18.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28362	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 74. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HNS and HSU Representatives' Club. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Mr. Hrvoje Schlezak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28363	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. Since a system of licensing of school directors has not yet been established in the Republic of Croatia and no person in the Republic of Croatia has been able to obtain a licence for a director by applying the provisions of Article 126a of the Law on Training and Education in primary and secondary schools since 1 January 2017, no person in the Republic of Croatia has met the requirements of the school director. The proposed amendment, which provides for the retention of Article 126a, would block the system of education and education because no person in the future could be elected principal of the school institution. For this reason, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28364	Thank you. Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28365	We will, of course, ask for a vote on this amendment. Yesterday's debate was not only on this side of the HNS club from the SDP club but also other clubs that participated in this debate it was quite clear that we all want to raise standards in primary and secondary education and that licensing as a specific goal that we should achieve within and the objectives set by the Education Strategy in Croatia is something that we want to meet and that we need to move on. Since a certain job has been done for licensing, we believe that this is something that must remain in the law and therefore we suggest that you do not delete it from the law. And this situation is being resolved regarding the application of the licensing itself, we resolve the second amendment that we have put into transitional provisions, which means that we are giving the government the possibility for the ministry to carry out the licensing within two years and to initiate it in the way that was already provided for by law. I really don't see anything controversial about it, and nothing would have happened spectacularly if you had accepted something like that, but you would certainly have fulfilled what we promised citizens by adopting the Education Strategy in 2014. And we have to say that we do not know and that we do not know what is behind the fact that this provision is deleted in law. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28366	Thank you. I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to approach the vote are they in order for the above-mentioned amendment that the Government does not accept to be adopted? The vote is over. That amendment did not obtain a sufficient majority to be included in the final draft law. Amendment number 2. Mr Hrvoje Šlezak State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education by the HNS Club on Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28367	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment proposing to extend the period of entry into force of the provisions of Article 126a of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools should be rejected for the reason that it is not technically possible to accept the prolonging of the moment of entry into force of the provision already entered into force on 1 January 2017. For this reason, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28368	Thank you. Does the amendment promoter want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28369	Of course, it makes no sense to ask for the adoption of this amendment, given that it was rejected first, so it would be a very strange situation if they eventually accepted that amendment so that I would not ask for a vote on this amendment. However, there is indeed this excuse under which you reject the amendment at all, and that is that it is not technically harmonised. So you have changed in the transitional provisions exactly that provision, meaning the article to take effect immediately on what we have added to the amendment we have proposed to determine in the transitional provisions that this article applies with a delay. I must once again express my concerns at this point that the Ministry of Education is breaking standards, but perhaps it's not quite strange, given that standards, high standards in the ministry, starting with the minister and beyond, are not something we could raise ourselves with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-01-19-0.u28370	Thank you. Since the proposer has withdrawn the amendment, I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in High and High School. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes of 84 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 34 votes against we passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools.
