ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25182	On behalf of the SDP, they would ask for a break related to an important economic internal political issue and a break of about 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25183	Question?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25184	You'll find out after the break. There is an important economic internal political issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25185	You have to say the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25186	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25187	You said a general economic situation or an economic question, can you tell me what this is about?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25188	Well, you'll find out after the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25189	But don't make me deny you the right to leave, I beg you to be correct and tell me what you want to talk about so I can grant you a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25190	Well, I said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25191	Well, good if that's correct for you. You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25192	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS and HSU club, the topic is the introduction of new charges, it's a construction rent, a contribution to the construction of infrastructure, but also a regulation on municipal waste that introduces and the obligation to pay for pet waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25193	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25194	Dear Chairman, I'm looking for a break in the case of yesterday's operation, Nada Bosnic, from Zadar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25195	Thank you. Anyone else? Unless there are any interested, I'm setting a 10-minute break. It's 9:35 p.m. We're going back to work. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Three clubs signed up for the break, the first SDP representative club, and Mr Maras will speak for them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We reported this morning to warn the Croatian public about the paralysis of the Croatian government, certain ministers, which is, for example, evident and about the situation that Andrej Plenkovic lost at the arbitration court in Switzerland, or the court in Switzerland, did not accept a temporary measure of suspending the costs of arbitration of the Republic of Croatia, and this will cost Croatia the state within a very short period of time, the deadlines cost more than 210 million kuna. On the other hand, INA is no longer spoken of at all. We call on Andrej Plenkovic, who announced seven months ago that he would purchase INA, that Croatia would regain control of INA, to say one single sentence where we are around INA. Our workers in Sisak, our workers in the Refinery in Rijeka, our workers in the entire INA require these answers. Mr. Plenkovic, this isn't diplomacy, we're gonna talk a little bit, we're gonna eat lunch, we're gonna rest after that at home, and we're gonna go to the party tonight. They're expected here after the announcement, after you promise something to do. Once again, I remind you, seven months from Plenkovic around INA or b, not only from Plenkovic, not from HDZ or MOST, who is told and competent in the Government of Energy or the INA. Our government not only on this matter our fellow citizens and fellow citizens are paralyzed. You can see that we don't have any solid points around the HDZ and MOST government, whether it's an economy, whether it's a restoration, a demographic, anything that doesn't have any results. What marks the HDZ and MOST government is conflicts of interest, primarily Minister Dalic around INA, afterwards Minister Maric about Agrokor. I guess we've had a unique case in the world where the minister takes himself from his job for a certain time because he himself says he's in conflict of interest. And then we do not have to be surprised that there are no concepts, which is ruled by uncertainty, which is not solved by the problems, which INA has fallen into another plan, which is Agrokor on the way who knows where and how it will all end together and what is going to happen with the hand and will be calculated when in the media and in the ruling majority around Plenkovic when the motion for the recall of Minister Maric comes. Will we be able to do it on Friday because then the break takes place, then I guess nothing can happen in Croatia anymore. The SDP will call off Minister Maric at the time when we estimate that there has been sufficient critical mass of elements for his impeachment, and that will be very soon. Some more things have surfaced here, I urge everyone to examine the priority loan from Minister Maric, which he won in HPB in 2010. A preferential credit as chairman of the Supervisory Board has been granted a credit which is intended only for HPB employees. Here's some media are investigating the case, how officials and ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia can get loans in state banks that ordinary citizens and all others living in the Republic of Croatia cannot get. You have publicly available information, you have the possibility of verifying it, as chairman of the Supervisory Board of State Secretary in 2010 at the HPB has received a privileged loan. And here I call once again on everyone interested to check it out let the Minister and Andrej Plenkovic manifest themselves on this example when our citizens were tormented with Swiss, some of them received in kunas at the preferential interest rates of loans in the state bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25198	HNS representatives' club also called for a break. In their name will be a representative of Anka Dark Tarritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25199	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I sought Stanku on behalf of the club for reasons of introducing new taxes or new charges. Not so long ago in this House we had a debate on local taxes, and so through these local taxes a property tax has been introduced which has been in force since 1.1.2018, which is a substitute for the current municipal fee. However, this is not the case until the end of what we warned about and what we have the opportunity to listen to from the head of the local self-government units because the introduction of two criteria, which is the age of real estate, which is an objective criterion and the state of real estate. The situation of real estate will indeed lead to a series of problems because what we have warned about will be paid less tax than the new property in New Zagreb. But that's the way it is. What we are warning, we are warning of two new rules that are in the public debate and where we have the possibility of a reaction. One regulation is the Law on the municipal economy, and the other is the Regulation on municipal waste. The Law on the municipal economy is still in the public debate and the Regulation on municipal waste was concluded on April 14th or 15th in a public debate. When it comes to the Law on the Communist Economy, instead of a communal contribution that has been paid so far, two new things are being introduced when someone is moving to build their property. One is a construction rental for which it is not clear to the end, so it is clear that it is paid by someone who builds it, where the municipal infrastructure is built for the new use of this municipal infrastructure as a return to local self-government units for investing something. However, the provision is written in a way that it is not quite clear that it may not be paid and built and will then have two duties, one is a property tax and the other is a construction rent. The second is the contribution to building municipal infrastructure. So far, the law has defined that an investor can enter into a contract with local self-government units, build a piece of municipal infrastructure, now it's not. It pays local self-government units to build municipal infrastructure. From this pay phone, I'm really warning you about the experience we've had so far. Do not let it happen if such a bill passes that the investor will have built buildings, that the municipal infrastructure will not be built, that it will not be possible to obtain the applicable permits and we simply need to know that out of 556 municipalities and cities do not all have the same capacity in terms of construction and let us not burden municipalities and cities with something they cannot do. And now, indeed, look at the wonders, we have another newspaper. The newspaper that is defined in the Community Waste Regulation, where we define that, with the waste that we all produce, we will also have to define the waste produced by pets. And when it comes to us, there are standards, and there are standards that say that a man about 370kg of waste is produced annually, according to this standard, dumps are planned, waste disposal and all other things are planned, but we don't have a standard for pets. And the regulation says that for pets as well, they are alike, their waste should be included in municipal waste and transferred to municipalities and cities that through their decisions on municipal order, i.e. on the management of municipal waste should be defined as what and how. I wouldn't mind if we knew how much a year's waste is produced by a hamster, one goldfish, one dog, and then depending on the size of a dog, I assume that the amount of waste is defined, one cat would define it and charge for it. I wouldn't mind if all pets were listed. In the northern part of Croatia there are approximately 60% pets, dogs are chipped because their chipping is in the veterinarian’s, so let’s not put veterinarians in a position to ask for information about dogs. About a third of people have cats that aren't chipped, so if we introduce something, it's polite to at least know why we're introducing, which is why we're introducing. And you don't have to listen to me from this pay phone, and when I talked about local taxes, I warned about real estate taxes. Listen to the Association of Cities, the Association of Cities through public debate, through their observations equally pointed to that. So now is the time, indeed, to prevent and not to go any further, the rules that are inconclusive and which really have great doubt and not to say and to make fun of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25200	The live wall advocates club also called for a break. Agent Ivan Pernar will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25201	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to point out the problem, or the case of Mrs. Nada Bosnic from Zadar, who was evicted yesterday after living in that apartment for 45 years, due to a 13 thousand kuna debt. At the same time, Ivica Todorovic, according only to suppliers, created 16 billion kuna debt. And now what's going on? Ivica Todorovic lives in the castle, has butlers, porters and whatnot and Mrs. Nada Bosnic from Zadar ended up on the street. And the question is, is that normal? Is that normal? There are people who think they're making decisions like that. And there are people who feel that this policy is not normal. The reason I was elected to this House was among other things a struggle for those people who are one foot on the road or are actually already on the road. I think the system has to change. People will say, well, Pernar, now you're telling that story, we're listening to you, and you didn't do anything. It's true, I didn't do anything about it because I don't have a position of government, I don't have a position of government, I can't change the laws. And it's interesting that when Agrokor, meaning Todorovic's firm was in trouble, then within two days, three created a new law. And what, Mrs. Nada Bosnic found herself in trouble, no one cares, and not only she and thousands of other people are hanging around their necks. And I was wondering what to do, what to do? Because I know that everything I'm saying falls on deaf ears. That you gentlemen from HDZ who promised before the election, your Prime Minister Plenkovic, that he would protect the only real estate from the performance, that he would stop that hell of an execution, we can see that he did nothing. And it's an acute problem for these people. Neither about RBA cooperatives nor about blocked citizens. So the executive system hasn't even changed that the public notebooks don't do it anymore. And in the end, we still have these merciless actions. And now what am I supposed to do? If after these five minutes of calmly going to my bench and sitting back there nothing will change, simply you will continue to work on your own, people will still be decommissioned, I just don't see where it's going to go. And then I came up with the idea to give you a 24-hour period to provide Mrs. Nada Bosniæ from Zadar, and if not, then, as you have delegated her from her house or apartment, you will have to take me from this pay phone. So I'm not leaving here until that lady gets her accommodation back. And if you need to do the circus to take me seriously, I'm going to have to work it because I see that you in nice words, polite pleas, the apparition just doesn't respond. So I can tell you the woman's got nowhere to sleep, you'll tell her what to do and keep it going. Says Mr. Boric who I am to talk about it. You see, Mr. Boric is good for you and your HDZ family, and your families are good for you. Mrs. Bosnic is very bad. I do not represent you here who have stolen the whole country but represent the Croatian people who, because of your politics, have been found on the street with one foot. Mrs. Nada Bosnic has come to the street because of your policy and your failure. And I invite you to have a deadline for the gentlemen of the HDZ for 24 hours to take care of her. If we're not going to go with the fine methods, then we're going to Then you'll have to carry me out of here. [[Intruder Petrov: I would ask that you do not pollemize.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u25202	We're going back to work. The first point is: - The final proposal of the Law confirming the Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the fight against fraud and any other illegal activities that harm their financial interests, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 114. After this point will also be discussed point Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I also hope that today we will have time to discuss the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, just to know what the schedule is for today. As regards the first point I announced, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal as a matter of urgency. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, you received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36483	... confirms the Agreement on cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the fight against fraud and any other illegal activities that harm their financial interests. [[Specially enabled.]] By joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia has accepted the obligation to adapt its national legislation to EU legislation, and that adjustment includes the accession of the Republic of Croatia to all agreements concluded by Member States and the EU or signed with one or more third countries or with an international organisation. The relevant Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation was signed in Luxembourg in October 2004, and has been applicable between the EU and the Swiss Confederation since April 2009. The text of the Agreement on cooperation in the Croatian language was approved in July 2015 at the meeting of the EU Council on Agriculture and Fisheries, and following this exchange of letters from the Council of the EU and the Swiss Confederation was certified in order to be considered equally credible within the meaning of Article 48 of this Agreement. The aim to achieve the legislation is to confirm the agreement to become mandatory for the Republic of Croatia and to make it possible to apply it in relation to the Republic of Croatia. The very subject matter of the agreement is the cooperation of the European Community and the Swiss Confederation in the fight against fraud and illegal activities that have adverse financial effects on the part of the agreement. This cooperation shall, in particular, relate to the area of trade as opposed to customs and agricultural legislation, tax evasion, in particular in the area of indirect taxes, such as VAT duties and excise duties and non-intentional spending of various subsidies, fees, etc. Cooperation concerns strengthening administrative assistance and providing mutual legal assistance covering prevention, detection, investigation, persecution, and confiscation of illegal amounts. The basis for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure is found in Article 204(1). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which says so in other particularly justified reasons. The Co-operation Agreement should take effect as soon as possible to ensure that the Republic of Croatia is involved in administrative and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the EU Member States and the Swiss Confederation, in order to combat fraud and any other illegal activities that harm the financial interests of the signatories. In addition, given the nature of the process of confirming international contracts and formally expressing its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, it is generally impossible to amend or supplement the text of the international contract, it is proposed that this law be discussed and adopted by an emergency procedure, thus uniting first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36484	Representative Glasnović's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36485	Dear Sir, we have heard another litany about the application of European laws in Croatia, it is for me only litany, one microcry. And I wonder, we've often heard the word of this con. Here's a Global Finance Integrity report showing that according to this one, I'm not going to say the word of the region but those post-Yugoslavian states that it was extracted from 2001 to 2010. 83.5 billion euros on unpaid taxes, etc. You have, if I have that information, what are these, the information is useless, if there is no mechanism that will enforce the laws on the ground and harmonize in true, in truth with these European standards. You have 14 families that make 50 million kunas a year and have bank accounts out there for $1.7 billion. About $34 billion was sucked from Croatia from 2006 to 2014. And I wonder what our institutions are doing about the gray economy. Here's a little attention here, I'm talking about a gray economy that's twice what the standard is in the EU, it's about 30%, not 20 things we're talking about but 30%. And that's why we don't have kindergartens, etc., we have an out-of-date infrastructure because these people, these people who do that are criminals and traitors. We've heard about this person's dissection today for 13,000 kunas of debt and what about the one that owes billions of kunas, etc.? And the biggest financial affairs in Croatia have never been cleared, sitting in the DORHU above as... Help, DUDI, Tax Administration, Croatia Insurance, INA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36486	Representative Glasnovic is out of time. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The first club to report for participation in the debate is the Living Wall Representatives' Club. Agent Ivan Pernar will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36487	Today, we find ourselves in a situation where by who knows which way we're discussing proposals that we didn't actually come up with ourselves, but it's about so-called. harmonising with EU directives and this copy-past of a judicial model from the EU. However, our domestic problems do not come to the agenda at all. We can see that in the case of large fish that within 2 days things are resolved and when it comes to ordinary citizens like the Gaski family from Bednja, which is in a few days due to the fact that she could not repay the loan to the Zagreb bank, these topics are simply ignored. And, of course, the assembly room is half empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36488	Representative Pernar, I'm warning you for the first time, please stick to the topic currently being discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36489	The assembly is unfortunately half empty and the topic we are discussing is not important for our citizens, instead of discussing this topic we should have discussed why the judicial institutions have protected Ivica Todorovic for nearly 3 decades and why they are still protecting him. Unfortunately, this topic is not on the agenda, nor is it a subject of the Executive Law, but rather an agreement between the EU and the Swiss Confederation. These are topics that come on the agenda. I am sorry for our citizens who are marginalized, who are simply left out of this process that in theory rule by selecting their representative but who de facto decide nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36490	The next club to report for participation in the debate is the HDZ Representatives' Club. Representative Grozdana Peric will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36491	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, as in the opening statement, Mr Tufekčić, the representative of the Ministry, in fact, told us before us the proposal for a law confirming the Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States on the one hand and the Swiss Confederation on the other. Therefore, Croatia has also accepted the obligation to adapt its national legislation to EU legislation by joining the EU since 1 July 2013. The cooperation agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, is in the fight against fraud and any other illegal activities that harm their financial interests, signed in Luxembourg on 26 October 2004 and is applicable between the EU and the Swiss Confederation from 8 April 2009. Thus, by entering the EU, the Republic of Croatia has also committed our country to join those agreements that the Member States and the EU have concluded or signed with one or more third countries or with the International Organisation. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The objective that this law aims to achieve is to confirm an agreement which would make it mandatory for the Republic of Croatia to meet its purpose, which is to provide, as previously explained, administrative and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the European Community and its Member States on the one hand and the Swiss Confederation on the other. This is about combating fraud and other illegal activities that harm the financial interests of States that are party to a co-operation agreement. This law regulates certain basic issues, namely that this agreement primarily refers to the fight against fraud and any other illegal activities that harm the financial interests of the parties, and strengthens administrative assistance in areas where mutual legal assistance is needed, including search and temporary confiscation, and in particular cases of smuggling and evasion in the area of indirect taxation, above all, of value added tax, customs and excise duties. We are witnessing that there are indeed various circular frauds that we have discussed so far. The Agreement lays down the scope of its application, so it is explicitly specified that the agreement applies to administrative and criminal prevention, and detection, investigation and prosecution, and to the prevention of fraud and other illegal activities, which relate to trade, which is contrary to tax legislation, and the collection or retention of funds, including their use for other purposes. The Agreement shall also apply to the temporary withdrawal and recovery of amounts owed or wrongly received as a result of illegal activities. Therefore, cooperation in terms of administrative and legal assistance exists also when a specific act or institute is differently qualified in the Contracting States, given the different legal systems. In fact, the law also speaks of mutual legal aid where we could also read the saying that mutual rights of assistance is provided in procedures initiated by administrative authorities for acts which are punishable under the national law of one of the Contracting Parties or both, as well as in civil matters related to criminal proceedings, so all proceedings carried out by the Criminal Court may be data and for criminal offences or infringements for which the legal person of the requesting Contracting Party may be responsible, so all of these are mutual legal aids which can be obtained by means of this Agreement and information if any illegal action has taken place in the areas of those States. The reasons for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure, as suggested and mentioned more than necessary, because this administrative and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between Member States and the Republic of Croatia and the Swiss Confederation will thus be able to access and access all data relevant for certain proceedings which have not been possible so far have not been available. That's why I, too, on behalf of the HDZ Club, ask that this agreement be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36492	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36493	Dear fellow Members, I do not expect an answer from you, I expect an answer from someone regarding the alignment of these processes of European, legal regulations, etc. We've been listening to this for years, but what's the effect on the field? I'd say absolutely no effect. This is just a smoke screen where we play some kind of plural democracy. In fact, there's not much going on about the law. We have half a million unsolved cases in courts for a country of four million people, Los Angeles has a larger population. I mentioned here, for example. The 14 families who have 1.7 billion kunas out there, according to some estimates, the tax amounts to 690 million kuna for these 14 families alone. What about the other billions of kunas out there, what's going on with the affairs where this... catharsis is? Rijeka Bank, Dubrovnik Bank, Glumina Bank, etc., ad infinitum and what else do we have with these other biggest malversions in the country, nothing is solved, it stands up in the drawer of Mr. Civtan before Bajic's. I will mention it again, Tax Administration, DUDDI, Croatia Insurance, INA and then we have a double standard and of course people lose total confidence in the legal system. We have two parallel systems, we have parallel systems for these oligarchs new, these... these Balkans that stole the state and ordinary citizens. I'm asking you to find solutions to those questions if it doesn't solve us waiting for an implosion by '18. For years, we have a failure of the pension system and the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36494	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU will speak to the distinguished representative of Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36495	Thank you, well-respected chairman, dear secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So unlike those comments we've heard so far, this is a law that shouldn't be in the process, that there are much more important laws I believe in the club of the HNS, the HSU that this proposal for a law to confirm the Agreement on Cooperation between the EC and its Member States on the one hand and the Swiss Confederation on the other hand in the fight against fraud and all other illegal activities that protect their financial interests is very important to our citizens. Because of that, the benefits will be given to all of our citizens who work honestly. In fact, everything that has been signed and the laws have been passed and agreements signed since 2004 and since 2009 apply between the EU and the Swiss Confederation are very good and that they should be applied. Because they're really protecting against fraud. And it is far better to apply this to as many countries as possible, not only the Swiss Confederation of EU Member States, but it would be good and applied to as many third countries as possible to prevent, combat the various frauds that are happening and which we often have opportunities to witness and see which amounts it is concerned. We know how this works in money laundering, in order to issue various fictitious accounts, tax evasion, we have human trafficking. And of course if it is monitored, if there is co-operation, legal assistance in all countries that it is much easier to monitor, sanction and confiscate those benefits that have been illegally acquired and, of course, punish themselves. We also have a case of circular fraud that has been in significant amounts in our country lately, especially with VAT because it is actually the highest rate of 25%, so there are these various fictitious accounts, companies that disappear afterwards. Many entrepreneurs are unfortunately, or because of their lack of information, not to say naiveness for some time are involved in various such transactions. And, of course, the state is running out of money. In excise duties and customs, there are the same cases, but they are smaller percentages, and in smaller cases they are used, I say the most pronounced is precisely VAT. It is important that tax laws be as simple as possible, that they are often not changed and that they can be followed by all those businessmen and we as ordinary citizens know a lot about them and once we learn that we don't have to look at them for 3 months whether anything has changed. Because even in those cases, we can contribute to control in that particular segment. And that's why we think it's a good thing that as soon as all these agreements are signed, that is to say, letters have arrived to confirm this bill, too. And that's why we support the HNS Club, HSU this law, and we think it's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36496	Thank you very much. Once again, we have one replica of the esteemed representative Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36497	We've been listening to the esteemed colleagues of this mantra for years. You've had two decades to build a functional state and create a functional legal system. And what do we have? This is not about Europeanisation, it's about Balkanisation. We've been listening to Mantra for years, and that's this, we've got good laws, but... And what? Where's the mechanism... those laws? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You mention Switzerland, you forget one thing, because that mental circuit that was present in your party is still present in this House and it's a bit running, a lot of stealing etc. But when morality sets the law in motion, there's no law, there's no mechanism, that's all that verbally covers everything and these smoke curtains are released to citizens for years. Meanwhile, the state is losing billions of kuna on unpaid taxes, the biggest affairs are not resolved. I mentioned some here earlier and we're always spinning around here and not just having a dysfunctional legal system, we don't have any mechanism to implement those laws on the ground at all. Where will you get a police officer, mention Switzerland, how much is a police officer paid here and a tax inspector? You mentioned a circular fraud where the tax administration was stolen up to a billion kuna through fictitious companies. And what about it? What does BUSKOK, these other services of ours, not to mention SOA and others if we have all that information? And why are we still at the bottom of that corruption scale, corruption, that corruption perception index with Romania, Bulgaria, etc.? This means this has nothing to do with the modern rule of law, this is more like "Croslavia" not perhaps yours, but your former country's party was, the first law was "Slightly working, much stealing" and "Friends get by". By that, it's just smoke curtains. We're not going anywhere, not a millimeter to comply with European laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36498	The answer of the esteemed representative of Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36499	Thank you very much. So, dear colleague Glasnovic, my only party I was in and I did is the Croatian People's Party. I've never been to any other party before. What you're attributing me to these previous years of work that hasn't been done enough might be the same question I could ask you. That much does not work as we would all like and that we think Croatia deserves standing, that is what I stand for and I fight for, that there are a lot of irregularities in the IRS as well. Is it because of lack of education, because of frequent changes in regulations? Probably from everyone to something. As for Uskok, I'd like him to do his job, probably like you, but if we're just going to criticise back to what was and what wasn't done or looking for the guilty, we won't do much, and we won't get far. It is far more important to see how to fix this law, and I consider this law to be a sign of its contribution to wider control and opportunities for insight into many things that could not have been given information that this law does not exist and that Croatia does not ratify this proposal for an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36500	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36501	The next item is the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the fight against fraud and any other illegal activities that harm their financial interests, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 114. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal for a law confirming the Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, in the fight against fraud and any other illegal activities that harm their financial interests. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that, unanimously with 114 votes, we have passed the Law confirming the Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States on the one hand and the Swiss Confederation on the other hand in the fight against fraud and any other illegal activities that harm their financial interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36502	We would now move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. Number 7. The proposal shall be made by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists on the basis of Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 190. Rules of Procedure. The material was delivered to you in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The government delivered an opinion and submitted amendments. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, their reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36503	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives is before you. Let me briefly explain the most important provisions of this law that are now in front of us in the second reading. Article 1 of this final proposal regulates the right of a representative to pay after the termination of his or her duties and until the beginning of his or her payment on a second basis or to meet the conditions for retirement in relation to representatives who have acted for at least one year or less than a year. The provision has been taken over from last year's amendment to the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials. To repeat, the proposed legislative amendment will not have the right to pay after the end of the term of office of attorney. Those representatives who have been on the job for more than three months, but less than a year will have the right to three months of full salary and three months of half and compensation, and only those representatives who will be on the job for at least a year will have the right to pay six plus six. Article 2 supplements the law and prescribes when the representative does not have the right to pay the salary after the term of office has ceased. The right would not have been given to a representative who resigned from office, a representative whose term of office had ceased because he was sentenced to prison by a judicial power in accordance with the provisions of a special law, a representative acting as mayor or municipal chief, or his deputy, regardless of whether he was acting in a position without establishing a working relationship in a local self-government unit. A representative who, on the basis of the agreement and of Article 8a of this Act, has the right to schedule or return to work on the tasks he has performed prior to the conduct of the agent's duties or other relevant tasks without the execution of a public tender, and an agent who, on the basis of the contract referred to in Article 8b of this Act, concludes a contract with the former employer on his return to the tasks he worked on prior to his or her duties or other relevant tasks. Article 3 complements the law and we propose the regulation of the rights and duties of the representatives to participate in the work at meetings of the Assembly and its working bodies. On the basis of the debate and respecting the comments and suggestions made by the representatives, we consider it better to define what is considered to be a legitimate absence of representatives from the Croatian Parliament, trying to objectively objectify the reasons for the absence and eliminate the discretionary right of the President of the Parliament to assess whether the absence of representatives in the Assembly is justified or not. Thus, the final proposal for the law left out the formulation of the reasons that were first or later approved by the President of the Croatian Parliament to which the objections were addressed in the debate. According to the final proposal, the justified absence of representatives from the Croatian Parliament will be considered a disease that the representative is obliged to justify the medical certificate, the death in the family, the subpoena, and the presence of the socio-political, economic, scientific, cultural and other meetings, conferences, events and celebrations at which the representative is invited. In the final draft of the law, the Proposer proposes to reduce the representative for any unwarranted absence from the Croatian Parliament on the day of the vote of the Croatian Parliament's representative's fee by three journals for official travel to the Republic of Croatia. Such a provision stipulates that a representative must come to the Parliament on the days when he votes, when the Parliament votes but is not obliged to attend the vote. This is in line with a number of suggestions from the debate during the first reading. The decision to reduce on the basis of the documentation submitted on the presence of representatives in the Assembly shall be taken by the working body of the Croatian Parliament responsible for administrative affairs. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 as regards the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1/2003 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The final draft of the law is complemented by a law with two new articles which regulates the right to return to the work of MPs after the term of office has ceased in the tasks they have performed prior to the conduct of their duties or other relevant tasks without the execution of a public tender. The Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials in Articles 15d and 15th regulates the rights of civil servants who are not re-appointed in the form of return to work with the former employer. However, this right is not special by the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which is also provided for by the MPs and, in particular, by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in its decision and resolution of 12 August 2014, so we prescribe this by supplementing the law. The intention is to ensure that by prescribing the right of the representative to return to work with the former employer is not used or that only a minimum right of compensation is applied after the termination of the exercise of the agent's duties and thus we expect to reduce the expenditure on that purpose in the state budget. All the legal provisions in the final proposal give rise to one joint effort, lower budget costs for a number of reasons, some MPs will no longer have the right to compensation or will receive it for up to 6 months and part of the appropriations for a representative flat-rate will not be paid unless the representatives are regularly arrived in the Assembly. Amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system were submitted to this Final Proposal for the Law. We, as promoters, too, believe that all good amendments should be met, therefore, and amendments to the government which wish to clarify certain legal provisions. We will also accept the Committee on Legislatives and the amendment of the Constitution Committee in part with a partial addition to this amendment. We believe that this final bill with the provisions we propose will significantly strengthen the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and its representatives where we will actually have a better basis for, in addition to the rights of MPs defined by this law, defining this aspect of the duties of representatives to attend the work of the Croatian Assembly at meetings and on the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, and thus contribute to the fact that the work of the Croatian Parliament will take place in such a situation that representatives will be far more involved in the work of this High House than they are in the Croatian Assembly, at meetings and working bodies, and that this will certainly have a good effect in the public which carefully observes the way the representatives in the Croatian Assembly participate in the work of this High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36504	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Podolnjak. Although there is an idea in this proposal that I can agree with in principle, in principle I am not sure that you will achieve the ultimate goal that you said yourself that MPs will thus have a greater response to the session itself because basically MPs should, at least my view is motivated in another way. And that is that if voters do not work and are not present, if they do not see them in their election units, unless they share their problems with them, they do not represent them as a pay phone, it is the right way to punish a representative or minister in the Croatian government who, for example, acts in a way that voters do not want. The way you chose it, I'm not sure it's the best, I personally don't have any problem because I'm there almost always in the assembly and in the field. But I think your intensity, it's a little bit, I'd say it's gonna get lost. So with these diaries, how much will be denied to whom heights, cobwebs, etc.... You give people full information, here you send all voters full information, maybe this Parliament can organize how much someone has participated, how, how, that people know who from representing and how. I think it would be the right and the right way, so I think it's another one of the proposals that will derail those important topics. So let's say a much more important topic is for me here you can see about it, as a professor, is the secretary of state when it comes to taking a 4% loan, 2.3% more favourable than it is on the market, as state secretary, in front of the government, is that moral and is it a conflict of interest? So this is the kind of thing you do. Do not resolve whether someone will get half a living room more or less if they sit there or not. So on that side, let our citizens handle it in the elections themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36506	Thank you. The honourable representative Robert Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36507	Dear colleague, this is the final draft law on the rights and duties of MPs, and we are not talking about other state officials about what you just said. It's not just about sanctioning the MPs and reducing the representative's coffers at some amount of several diaries, it's just one aspect of this law. The intention is to have MPs in the Assembly at the end of the session of the Assembly not all week, so they are not from Monday to Friday, there are enough days when this Parliament is not sitting and MPs can also be in the constituency as you yourself have said what is part of their work and their activities. In addition, we have foreseen here in the final proposal and the possibility for MPs to justify their absence if they are invited to various conferences, events, events that occur, and perhaps right in their electoral unit and you will be able to justify this and will be considered a justified absence which will not reduce the parliamentary flat. So this is how we wanted to meet the representatives who will participate in numerous activities in their electoral unit or elsewhere outside the Croatian Parliament, but we have respected this aspect just to enable all MPs and thus not be sanctioned unless they are present here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36508	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36509	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Podolnjak. In the final bill of law you delivered, you're saying that an agent has no right to pay after his duties have ceased in case he has a guaranteed return to his post. However, a return to the workplace is guaranteed within 45 days and is now asking a logical question, why would a man be 45 days without pay. So in those 45 days, a parliamentary representative, or former parliamentary representative, may have some income, yet you did not resolve it with this legal proposal. So the question arises, will the parliamentary representative be without pay for 45 days, or will he still have any income during the time he is waiting to return to his old job in the state service? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36510	The honourable representative Robert Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36511	Thank you. A respected colleague has given a number of amendments to this aspect of which you have referred to, and in that part, practically copying the provisions of the existing Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. Therefore, we have said that we will accept these amendments that are currently going in this direction that MPs and during this short period of time until they return to work with the former employer will possibly have that compensation for up to two months. So that's in the amendment to the government that the motionor accepts, so that's not a cause for concern. Let us only hope that with the amendments to the Government that we accept there will be a situation in which the law is not fully laid down and the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of State. You have the last situation where there was a dispute between the Commission on the conflict of interest and the former President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia where they interpreted the same legal provision in different ways. We'll see the fallout of that situation when the final commission decides. But it is this legislative provision on the time of return to work with the former employer within which the former official is obliged to do the matter precisely to the dispute which is now in front of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36512	The next is a replica of respected envoy Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36513	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Podlonjak, I may have missed hearing or not understand enough when you said about the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to your proposal for a law amending the Committee on the Constitution and the Committee on Legislatives. In fact, if we look at your proposal for a law that the Government specifically gave amendments and if it were to be united in some way, then we get something quite different from what was the intensity and what was the basic proposal of your law. So I'm wondering, will you accept all amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or just part of it? Because later on in the debate, I'm not going to waste my time or bother with it, I'm going to make a point. Furthermore, I think it is important for all of us who want to debate and give our opinion so that we know that we can act accordingly. Furthermore, there's one thing that certainly doesn't make sense to me, confuses. We have a Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that very clearly defines the role of MPs, who is a representative, which and how so many of your proposals would even say in some part of the Rigid. Contradictors are in part what you yourself said a representative must come to the Parliament and not have to vote, what is the point? In fact, I read that not only was it me but also in the debates in the first reading which was that the intensity of this part was that it wanted to be disciplined in some way by the parliamentary majority. We had an 8th cohort problem with the quorum, with most of which you were also with your colleagues to the HDZ partners, and now here we were also participants. I don't think this law can solve it, that it's a whole other level of meeting party presidents, clubs that need to be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36514	The honourable representative Robert Podolnjak will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36515	Thank you. Then we'll accept all amendments to the government as a proponent. What you have stated about this other critical remark, therefore, is that you are seeking the presence of representatives in the Croatian Parliament but not in the vote. That is exactly what it was, I can even say the biggest objection that opposition MPs have made to the proposal of the Law in the debate on first reading. So most of the remarks were largely focused on us demanding that MPs not only be present at the Croatian Parliament but also come and vote. And because of certain formulations that could refer to such a conclusion, we were very careful in formulating this final proposal and clearly defined that presence is considered to be present in the Croatian Parliament rather than voting on the day of the vote. So we absolutely left it out just to ask for you MPs out of the opposition so you wouldn't be forced to vote when you don't want to and when you don't want to take part in the vote. So that's the attitude you're looking for we've accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36516	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36517	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been very interested in following Mr. Collar's presentation on the amendments to this law. And of course we also personally support that there are sanctions when people do not come to the vote, to strengthen the dignity of Croatian representatives. But I also want to say that it's not a good thing that we're in some way strengthening the idea that there's a circus in the House to end up in the media, so instead of quality, we're putting focus on the quantity. To prescribe the presence that, to vote, but not to speak people don't come to meetings in Parliament, that means that parliamentary deputies don't do their job. Many colleagues are currently away, not only in HDZ, but in other parties are in the field because we have a current campaign for local elections. Personally, I believe that in the near future we should have the courage, maturity in this conference and prescribe for a new assembly, for a future convocation to allow parliamentary deputies to have adequate representation in those units in which they were elected, to receive funds, to be close to citizens, to really match the ones they have chosen. This is what we must achieve in this assembly and get closer to the level of other parliaments in Europe and the world. So instead of quantities going to quality. That must be the purpose of this summoning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36518	Thank you. The response of the esteemed representative of the Sub-Subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36519	I thank a respected colleague and believe that all MPs in this House would agree that they would like to have certain working conditions and the electoral unit from which they come. And once prescribed by the Law of Representatives of the County House, such a provision unfortunately does not exist for MPs today. And I agree with you that the very presence of MPs in the Parliament is not a crucial proof of their work and activity. At a symbolic level, it is important for MPs to be in the Parliament and for citizens to see as well. And you're probably as aware as I am that citizens very often just looking at the assembly now in this way experience the Parliament. When they see us here, for them it's our place of work where we actually do our job, we discuss, in the end we decide the laws. And that's what's important and that's what they see now when they watch television. And believe me, very often citizens tell me that there are or aren't in the assembly, it's far more important to them than we often think. Although at some point each of us is trying to explain to the citizens that maybe we're not in the assembly that we're on a working body, that we're at an official meeting, that we're having some kind of protocol reception, that we've had some other important commitment but they see us here primarily, that's the fact that we're all aware of. And by this legal proposal, we allow MPs to be at conferences, conferences, meetings, in their election units with a justifiable absence. And at the end of the session began now on Wednesday, as a rule it is Wednesday, so there are days when we can also receive citizens in our election units and carry out activities where we are elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36520	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you. Does the Prime Minister want to further explain the opinion and amendments submitted? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Department of Administration, Mr. Mihovil Škarica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36521	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs. I will only briefly, given that the proposer's representative is a respected representative of Poddolnjak, but I will only say briefly that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not opposed to the adoption of the proposed law but only proposes appropriate amendments and amendments to the proposed text have been attached in writing to the Government's amendments and has already been shown to them. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36522	Thank you very much. Then I'd open up the debate. And the first one will speak on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36523	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today there is a final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Rights and responsibilities in the Croatian Parliament which has passed the first reading, now in its final version, which should represent some shift in the work of the Parliament, or in limiting the excessive, excessive benefits of parliamentary representatives, and also, let's say, the openness of a number of MPs. This law is very important because it tries to introduce the principle of justice, tries to introduce the principle of transparency, tries to introduce the principle of legality that should apply to all employees of the Republic of Croatia equally, and above all to those who should be a role model for the whole society, and these are primarily government officials or parliamentary representatives. And indeed rarely that the situation of citizens more irritates than a half-empty assembly like we have today the opportunity to watch, but even more than a half-empty assembly, citizens don't like to see the inactivity of MPs. So there are MPs who come to their jobs and perform certain duties, perhaps now parallel to this plenary session are indeed at work, but there are also those who neither come to work nor ever participate in any debate or any legislative or other activity, not even in the Committee's work. And that's the problem that needs to be solved anyway, and it's actually a long time ago. For this reason, we in the Living Wall have been optimisticly expecting this bill of law, whose applicant is MOST Independent Lists, but we must say that at the end of this final proposal we are quite disappointed because this bill is very soft, I would dare say bad and it solves the issue of form rather than content. Namely, this law provides that MPs will be fined, but only for a lack of vote. So the vote is on Friday from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m., so only for that one hour of not attending the plenary session will they be punished and that is exclusively from the amount of flat-rates that MPs receive from the total amount of 1,500 kuna. In view of the fact that the penalty for not coming to the vote is 450 kuna, the representative who is three times left spent the estimated amount, or the possible amount of punishment, and he no longer has to come after that because there is no way to continue to punish him. So, we think that if it went to fines that it should have been removed from wages and not only three times it could be punished but it could be punished as many times as the MP had lagged. So if that's 10 times, 10 times to take 450 kuna not just three times. We also believe that there is no point in not punishing the arrival of plenary sessions in general. So the plenary session lasts from Wednesday to Friday to 14:00 hours, working effectively from 2.5 working days, which means 4.5 working days or 4.5 days a week is basically free and that he can't be here for the 2.5 days of the week? Here's me. It's amazing that I haven't been able to meet any MPs in seven months. I'm sorry, but I don't know what they look like. I'd have to look at what that man's photograph looks like on the Internet if he could meet him on the street and he wouldn't even say hello to him. He wouldn't even know he was a parliamentary representative because I'd never seen him. Here, look at the statistics yourself, you have links here, there are 20 MPs who spoke zero times in an institution called Parliament. And it's really problematic, and they didn't have any activity either, they don't come to the board, the committees can't have a quorum unless they're held at the same time as the plenary session. So even though it's working day and Monday and Tuesday if the board president calls a board meeting on Monday, he won't have a quorum because the MPs won't come. So it's only now that a parallel committee session can be called up and that's the problem, and that one part of the MPs really aren't there because of that work on committees. This law should provide for penalties, i.e. no lack of work on committees. If it is difficult for someone to work on boards, let them thank the office because working on committees is also paid at least for the president and vice president. There are also paid services on committees, and it is a pity that these committees cannot work normally or can only work on the expense of the plenary session. Why don't the MPs come to their jobs? The MPs don't come to work, here I've been trying to talk to some MPs, a whole series of excuses that we have to listen to almost let MPs compete to invent why they don't have to come to the plenary session. Let's say one of the excuses we've heard now, the representative must be on the ground. Here you have 4.5 days, so be on the ground or don't be parliamentary representatives, be party employees and be on the ground. Here some MPs were saying I was at a protest. What protest? I don't know if the MPs have been in two protests in the last seven months. Some say I don't know anything about it, and that's why I won't be involved in the debate. So why aren't they trying to find out? Why don't they try a little bit. Well, this isn't a law school, this is a political forum that needs to be heard by some citizens' opinions. So try to find out something, listen here, listen together some debate, 7, 8 hours, and maybe we'll be encouraged to give up a two-minute line, so it's not so hard that we have to give up right away. And of course it's annoying for the citizens. How do citizens work? What rights do they have? They have to work whenever their employer tells them on weekends and holidays and overtime under constant pressure of termination, return to workbooks, they always have contracts for a certain time. Maybe we should introduce it here to the Assembly for a certain time and rebuild it every three months, so maybe this hall would suddenly be full. Or, let's just say we're going to have to call off the MPs. Here, Mr. Podolnjak, perhaps that measure would be a good, impeachment of the MPs. That voters have the right to recall an MP who does a bad job. How many MPs do you think would be present here? Maybe two or three would be missing. Penalty of the cobwebs. I repeat again, the sentence is insufficient. Here we have seen recently in the European Parliament for the poor work of MPs for 15 days is a Polish representative excluded from the work of a parliamentary session without pay. Much more severe punishment, far more incomparable than the Croatian Parliament. I would also like to refer to this article 3, which says that the representative, who is staying in the Assembly, is being held an electronic record. So when we enter the Parliament building, we have to lay down that card electronically to register, too, when we go to the kitchen, but why isn't that electronic record publicly available? So today's modern technology allows this record to be put on the Internet. So put on the Internet so let's see who's in the Parliament building right now. You can see it all well, let the citizens see it, and then we won't all be in the same basket. Why would I not know Mr. Boban who's here almost always in a bad voice like someone who doesn't show up? Let's split the wheat into the weeds. Let's see who these MPs are, and then, as Mr. Maras says, faster voters will be able to decide who they'll vote to next time and who we won't, and we can see that they will now have the opportunity to give three preferential votes. And what particularly bothers me, and that is where the Living Wall will be submitted to the amendment, which is this item that says it must be left behind from the plenary session, so only at the vote, and in my opinion, we should be left behind, and we are likely to make our written proposal. Therefore, a representative may be left out if he attends social political, economic, scientific, cultural and other meetings, conferences, events and celebrations at which the representative is invited. It literally means in translation, an MP can be left behind whenever he wants to, whenever he wants to. And therefore, if this article of the law remains in the final proposal that we're going to vote on, this whole law doesn't make any sense, it's pure nonsense, it's a waste of time. Because each of us gets at least 5 invitations a day to go somewhere or they're associations, or they're exhibitions, or they're memorials, or they're conferences, and eventually someone who's a little more involved in cheating can always ask to be sent an invitation. It's like it's hard to send an invitation, like it's on an invitation to a name and a last name. You can bring an invitation and say here I'm invited and that's why I don't have to be in Parliament. Therefore, if it is already going to be that the MP has the right to participate, for example, in economic and other meetings, it can be only with the permission of the Croatian Parliament or with the permission of the President of the Croatian Parliament, as well as in any job in the Republic of Croatia. Should I not now know the employee of the ministry or the school teacher, however, the judge, go to the exhibition without getting permission from his principal? If he leaves, and as long as he had to leave, as justified as it was to go to it, make sure he gets a notice at least before he quits and not quits. And that's why we think that this part, that a representative may be left behind if someone invited him somewhere, to tear down this whole law, and he's actually proving to be another of the so-called. Most guarantees of which in practice there is nothing, no concrete changes. Therefore, the Living Wall will not accept such a final bill if any quality amendments appear, among other things, we will submit them ourselves and if these amendments are included in the final proposal, then we will probably support this law. However, given the situation it has been so far, we suspect that this will happen, we suspect that there is a will in this House to finally do something that would really restore trust in the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36524	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. She's the rightful representative of Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36525	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Bunjac. I'll answer as well as on behalf of the promoter because you said a lot I wouldn't be able to answer all of you in two minutes, a lot of important things. Let me start by saying that we will accept in some modified form the amendments of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system in that section that you specifically indicated, which is the presence of the sittings only on the day of the vote. Therefore, the amendment of the Constitutional Committee is heading towards a reduction of one representative's fee for each day when the Croatian Parliament is sitting, so that means for all days not only for one day when the vote is possible in the week. What is important to say is that as a proposal we will seek to respect all suggestions as we have applied the amendments precisely with the intention of reaching as broad a consensus as possible in favour of this legislative proposal. We have certain indications from the opposition committee clubs that they are ready to support this final bill and that it could be adopted in a very high majority of the votes in this House, if this law respects all the suggestions they have made. In that sense, and our amendment that we will submit to this final proposal which will be an integral part will respond to these doubts, and as a proponent, I will show myself to this second part concerning the presence of individual manifestations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36526	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36527	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Podoljnjak, I must admit that when I listen to you MPs from MOST, you promise so nicely, you speak so nicely of these reforms, you are always so dramaticly calling for a consensus and on that side I would almost immediately give you a hand. However, I would accept your efforts. God forbid it's like you just said. However, you simply reason us every time because your actions do not follow your words. That's what the representative of Grmoy and Representative Bulj used to say, let's talk about it, and it doesn't matter who's from which party, but when the vote comes, you always raise your hand as well as the HDZ says, and everything the opposition proposes to vote against. So now that I don't know what kind of smart law we're giving to write it I don't know which experts your voting machine will simply do as drastically as in all the other cases as we've had the opportunity to see, when there was a vote on the budget or I don't know about the minimum wage and about a number of other useful laws that were on behalf of the citizens, you simply didn't want to listen to us, you wouldn't listen, you gave up, and I would really like to see that if at least around this law now that it's pre-election time to make your announcements about the community and the orderly goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36528	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36529	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bunjac, you have touched a topic in your debate that has now strengthened with its replica Mr. Podolnjak. So it was defined in the law or it was defined that it would only be punished not to come on the day when the vote in the Parliament is voted on, although not of course I hope it does not mean that if the opposition wants to break down the quorum that it must be in the assembly, but then it will be able to be registered in the Parliament, and now Mr. Podolnjak has said that it will spread to all days. Now, if the punishment is as you said in the amount of the sheets, then out of these 12 or 15 days of work in the month which they are, someone will not be punished for three days, and after that nothing will come to anyone. So that should be adequately followed by punishment or sanctions, I don't know what to call it. Though frankly, it's in my best interest to be here to discuss it in Parliament. I can't understand at all that someone would deliberately not come and that someone with 500 kuna should now be motivated to be here, it's really incomprehensible to me. That even the intensity of the law is incomprehensible to me and it's amazing that some MP would even allow himself not to come and now here he remembered MOST to punish them and now suddenly they're coming again. But it still doesn't matter if he works here, whether he works on the board or sits on a coffee shop downstairs. So it's just important to come to the assembly, it doesn't matter if you work at the Parliament, it doesn't matter if you work in the assembly, whether you work in the board you just have to come to the Parliament and everything ok. And you've been appointed. And on the other hand, what you said, even a birthday invitation can be understood by this law justifiable. So someone invites you to your birthday and you have an excuse, it's a ceremony. It's somebody's birthday party. Well, those are really pointless formulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36530	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36531	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Maras, it is regrettable that parliamentary deputies must be punished. So this should be essentially the greatest honor a man can have, represent the most legislative body in his country and represent his people. Every man here should come so motivated, with so much will to work that he should not at all remind him that his duty is to be in his place of work. You're in that part right. But Mr. Podolnjak is also right because he realized, in fact, he confirmed one very important fact and that most MPs here are not because of a sense of honor or because of the interest of their people, but most of them are one good part of the representatives here for money. And you can call them to morality, honor and dignity a thousand times, and you will not force them to attend plenary sessions. But if you take his money, make sure he does. It's a language they understand. They only understand if you touch them in their pocket, nothing else will motivate them, and the shame is that it is. Now, why would it be so, it would be very much discussed but in any case, the electoral law is the same as the parties in Croatia are quite undemocratic, where people are placed on lists only by principle of obedience many and they know very well that their task is to actually raise their hands, not to do the problems to the party chief and this is all else what the voters think, what citizens think, justice, honor, morality and all the rest of it is anyway. The pay goes and they're so quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36532	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36533	Representative Bunjac, you, as the only reasonable punishment or sanction, are proposing to recall the MPs and thus show that you have no idea about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. If you had watched a film, a beautiful film by Rajko Grlic, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia then you would have seen that one police officer has to take the exam to prove that he knows the Republic of Croatia. And as we can see here in Croatia you can also be a representative if you are called Bunjac and you have no idea about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that you are proposing such a completely anti-constitutional solution. The representative cannot be called off because of what the Constitution says. When he was, if he could, because he didn't have an imperative mandate, if he could be called off, he wouldn't be an MP at all, he'd be an MP. It's a system that's abandoned. You don't know anything about it. You are still here discussing and saying that it is totally unacceptable that this bill states that only the date of the vote will be sanctioned and not the day when the plenary session is held, so when the Parliament is working. And that's what you're showing and you're saying on behalf of your club that you haven't even read the amendments to this bill. And that the amendment of the Constitutional Committee is exactly what it's all about. But you're coming here for a pay phone, wasting our time as a representative, as a viewer, to show that you've come here unprepared. And if the MPs should be punished, I agree that they should, perhaps even by banning the parliament until they show that they know the Republic of Croatia's constitution and that they have not at least prepared themselves for the debate in which they think to participate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36534	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36535	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Stazic, first of all, when you're going to pollemize, listen to what the man is saying, you have a stenogram session and I will personally deliver it to you if you want to see what eight I said. I was talking about how many employees in the Republic of Croatia have to work under the constant threat of firing. And in order for that to be the same as if MPs in the House had to work under the threat of impeachment. So I didn't say it was the only possible solution than I said it would be a similar situation for many employees in the Republic of Croatia. And as for the quality of the work, I must say that it is quite embarrassing that you, from the alleged opposition to the SDP, submit a legislative proposal on the replacement of Minister Barisic and do not come to the vote. You're not taking part in the debate. You're filing a minimum wage bill that MOST votes to adopt, but your MPs aren't here. Your deputies will not vote on your own minimum wage law. So please, if you're going to talk about some preparation for the sessions, about whoever has a clue and who has no idea, first clean up at your own door. People expect it from you as an opposition. Well HDZ MPs are much more present at the sessions than yours, check yourself out, you have a vote. There's always a leak in your benches. That's how you think you're gonna be leader of the opposition? In such a way, HDZ will sleep peacefully for the next 20 years, with such opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36536	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, what I agree with from your statement that these amendments to the law will not solve anything and that nothing will happen. And that we will continue to be criticised by the public, that nothing will be done in Parliament because there are no people in plenary sessions. In my opinion, it should be a little bit different to handle things, strengthen the work of the board, increase committees, professionally discuss boards, and have fewer days of plenary sessions so that not all MPs appear on each point, on each subject and discuss it and kill all those who may know something and who should talk, that is our problem. I thought you'd also say something about circusing in the assembly because in this assembly in the last few months, some MPs have acted as circusers and demoted Parliament's work. And then we're surprised and you're surprised that people resent it. Well, they resented me personally, so many people told me that you could listen to it at all. Let's discuss it a little bit. Unfortunately, your club precedes the circus, that's a fact, you get ahead in the circus. Give it a second and think about it and see if maybe they're not all very guilty representatives, and you're not. Perhaps you too are to blame in one good part for such a bad rating of the Parliament and parliamentary representatives. Think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36538	The esteemed representative of Bunjac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36539	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Hrg, it is interesting to observe how individual representatives want to protect their rights and benefits by personal attacks on members of the Living Wall. Instead of using arguments, they use the ad-hominem method. Surely, the representatives of the Living Wall have contributed to the council’s views, so if you want to see it personally, and that one good part of your representatives, which is those who spoke zero times, certainly did not contribute to it. So this is a home called Parliament and in which to speak. It is necessary to speak in a way that the voice is heard, to attract public attention and there is nothing wrong with it. And as for the circus, I don't know if there's a bigger circus than the laws your ruling majority endures than Lex Agrokor, I don't know if there's more circusing than an INA purchase announcement, whether there's more circusing than a minimum wage law than anything that's interested in the citizens, and it hasn't been carried out in this House for years, and so is this law that we now have before us, which is some kind of snail step in solving the problem that should have already been solved 10 or 15 years ago. This way of working that you advocate Croatian problems will not be solved in this conference for the next hundred years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36540	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36541	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your own debate, you said that by accepting the amendments, the Proposer practically gave up on the fundamental intent of the law, to be more here in the assembly, that unless it comes with penalties, would agree with the parliamentary deputies to attend the debates, to give their contribution to the democratic debates here and practically comes down to the fact that the promoter of the club MOST is adopting all amendments, because each of us gets dozens of calls daily to attend different events in their election unit, we will not achieve what we wanted or show the truth that the promoter is essentially trying to pass on to voters, and his coalition partner told them you will not agree, here is the amendment, and that law loses meaning, although in my opinion, the main meaning of us elected here at the Croatian Parliament to talk here about the problems that affect our citizens, our electoral unit. And the biggest punishment for us is to come before the voters and tell us, and where you're in the assembly, you haven't said anything about our problems and certainly won't vote for me in the next election. And I think we should settle it through election laws. We have suggested that not enough is one preferential candidate to choose on the list but that all 14 candidates in the election unit be equal in the game and that one who gets more votes from the voters come to the assembly. The proposer did not propose it, they did not accept those amendments. And I also think that our citizens are sick and tired of these wild debates about the insignificant, all topics are kind of important, but for them, especially for us in Slavonia, the law on unfair commercial practice that cannot come to the Assembly, the Law on Agricultural Land that cannot come to the Croatian Parliament, means it is turning away with such proposals from the main topics that ensuing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36542	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36543	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, you have guessed the essence of the problem, which is that the Most Independent lite is strong only when it is necessary to perform in the media, when it is necessary to deceive voters ahead of the elections, and then they promise to abolish the HRT subscription or to reduce it, to stop actions, to reform public administration, to reduce the number of municipalities, municipalities, to fight the tycoon, here to reduce the rights of MPs, and then when the parliamentary debate comes, then the panel will change and there will be one big bubble of soap left, of all of which there is nothing nice, nor will the HRT subscription be reduced, nor will the parliamentary representatives stop to the sessions more than they have come to date. And it's a big problem that the alleged reformist party has, as long as the citizens fall for these pre-election tricks, promises it goes to them. But obviously, that seems to have passed several times, and it may be a few more times, but I think that in the long run, such a policy is simply not sustainable and of course it is not so much our problem but the problem of those who so declare that policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36544	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative Robert Podolnjak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36545	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A lot has been said in the debate between colleagues of Bunjca and later replicas. Let me say in our opinion this final bill with all the amendments we have accepted is a step not small but a significant step in strengthening the integrity of the Croatian Parliament. We tried to respect a series of suggestions that came from the opposition, from opposition clubs, from individual committees and from the government asking for as broad support as possible for this law. And as you may not have seen all these amendments that have been submitted, as well as amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which is currently going in this direction that every day no MPs arrive in the Croatian Parliament will be sanctioned by taking away a diary and not just the days when they vote, I must make it clear because it is constantly occurring in new exhibitions and replicas. The fact is today after the Parliament has not been sitting for 10 days and that there are not many MPs here. And just to prevent such situations as much as possible and motivate the MPs to come, this step that predicts for the first time a certain fine is, in our opinion, the first step in that direction. I agree with my colleague, Bunjec, that at some point when we will consider some new addition of this law we may go in a direction and stronger sanctions for the failure of representatives to come to the Croatian Parliament but will also need a certain majority of MPs to support it. The representative's record of their arrival or not coming to the Assembly is now available and I think it is often used by the media to announce which MPs are coming or not coming to the meetings. Someone mentioned the impeachment of MPs, yes, it is a very rare plant in parliamentary democracy, a representative system, it would be difficult to perform this in the Croatian Parliament, in which 14 MPs are elected in the constituency. But you have one example, in the United Kingdom, they passed the law in 2015 on the impeachment of MPs but in very limited situations when a representative is sentenced to prison. In such a situation, or if it is suspended by parliament's decision for more than 21 days that a petition of voters from the constituency can follow, and if 10% of voters from his district sign a petition to recall MPs, it will be considered as empty and new elections will be called. So in very limited situations but this is the first time that has happened in a British parliamentary system that is extremely traditional that there are situations where they allow possible impeachment of MPs but extremely limited when convicted of prison punishment, we have a different provision in our law in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36546	Thank you. We also have two replicas on this exhibit. She's the first one to be the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36547	Thank you very much. Comrade Podolnjak, I do not share your optimism that these amendments to the law will improve Parliament's rating and improve the work in the Parliament. And I'm afraid it went wrong, perhaps in good faith, probably in good faith. And by finding the problem, it's good in this whole section to go into debate, to see what to do to make the Parliament return its former dignity and to be a real place where laws are passed and where it's honorable to sit. But we put ourselves in these same changes to people who come here and there... Diaries or not coming. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're selling ourselves for a living. It really doesn't make sense to me. And I repeat that it must be cut deeper and that it should simply go into total reorganization of the work of the Croatian Parliament. To increase committees, expand committees, people who are interestingly defined and professional in some areas so that they can discuss it professionally, to have more discussions there and to discuss it less than anything at the plenary session. Then there will be many more people on board, there will be a quorum of course, the plenary session will always be full and people will listen to too many debates. The committees are ultimately the same public and they can be transferable and transferable. That, in my opinion, is what could restore Parliament's reputation. This won't bring him back. I don't share your optimism, given God that you're right, but believe me, this isn't going to happen to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36548	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative of the Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36549	I thank you for your replica. I would like to say, however, that this symbolic step, the first step, is that we also define the duties of representatives to be here in the Croatian Parliament. I must say that this should be an obligation that should not be prescribed by this legal provision and sanctioned by a reduction in the representation income for a single diary. I agree with you because I am here and because you are here in the Croatian Parliament and you consider this your obligation to be the basis of the oath you made to be here and to discuss and decide here. But unfortunately, there are no large numbers of MPs today after the suspension of the meeting of ten days and the intention is if it cannot be morally obliged by the representative to be here, if I cannot oblige him to do so by the voters, if he does not feel that sense of duty and respect for this House because something else is more important then this remains one penalty one step that is necessary. And let us remind ourselves that the Croatian Parliament is not the only one who prescribes it. There are parliaments that prescribe this and much more drastically than the Croatian Parliament, and that is why we say that this is the first step we are looking for a consensus, and we will see in practice how the application of this law will affect the presence of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36550	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Josip Krizanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36551	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Podolonnjak, in his opening presentation, you spoke about Article 5a(3), and I was not able to replicate it to you, so I will do it now. Namely, the right to remuneration after the termination of the term of office referred to in Article 5 of this Act is not... so he says that he is acting as mayor, municipal chief, or his deputy, regardless of whether he is acting on his duty without establishing a working relationship in the local self-government unit. Most deputy chiefs are volunteers, I do not understand why they are exempt from the right to compensation representatives of chiefs or even better deputy volunteers who are not working anywhere but only parliamentary representatives and in municipalities are volunteers who do not have the funds in these municipalities to pay salaries to the commissioners or deputies. In fact, those after the parliamentary term just like all of us other MPs certainly won't automatically, especially the deputies get paid in the municipality, but they'll have to look for a job like us. I think the chiefs or his deputies would especially so-called. Permanent volunteers, should be entitled to salary as well as other representatives after the end of the parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36552	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative of the Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36553	I thank you for the replica. We thought about it a lot, but it was from the parliamentary working bodies and professional services suggestions to prescribe this for the reason that there were a number of MPs who used this right of compensation at the end of the term of office even though they returned to their municipalities and cities as volunteers and kept the salary and receipts from the Croatian Parliament. We were in the interest of safeguarding the state budget, thus reducing the cost of the state budget, and the return representative who acts as municipal chief or mayor should be a professional and where he does indeed work there to make his income. There were situations that I was personally told that representatives from some of the wealthier municipalities used, for example, compensation after the termination of their duties to save money from their municipal budget. From the point of view of them and the municipal budget, it seems to me appropriate logic, but by law we protect the state budget and reduce the costs of the state budget. In this respect, this provision is incorporated and it protects efforts to reduce the costs of the state budget. Of course, the cost of municipal or city budgets will increase where he acts as former representative as mayor or mayor. Logic is clear as well as yours as the municipal chief and us who protect in this case the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36554	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on, please don't throw it out of the bench. We will now continue the debate, and in the name of the HNS-HSU Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Milorad Batinic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36555	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. This is one draft law which we at the HNS-HSU Club first did not think to discuss, but we are afraid, by the proposed amendments and by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by the Constitution Committee, the Legislative Committee, and also by some means, by the introduction of the representative himself, the colleagues of the Vice-Presidents, we are afraid that this is in some way the subject which, in our opinion, I propose this time and the chairman to go into third reading, because both with the opinion of the Government or with amendments, with amendments that have come from both part of the debate and what my colleague Podolnjak himself said on behalf of the promoter, I believe that he requires a third reading and a better quality proposal. But a significant step in the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, I will begin with that sentence, which was spoken by the Proposer, and I will, for the sake of all of us, colleagues and colleagues, do what we started to do with our duty, the oath, defined by the Rules of Procedure. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in the Croatian Parliament and will always stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." So why am I saying this? First of all, being a parliamentary representative is an honorable duty and an honor to be able to fix our, mine, honor if you are not yourself who want to do it and who are doing it. Can the law do that? I'm not sure. I don't want to be misunderstood, but I'm going to use an expression that we all know more or less about vocabulary, says he's going to scratch his pocket and punch his pocket, penalize, you'll remember it best, you'll know best. Is that the way? Not after us. Is there any matter in terms of acting as counsel to regulate? I'm primarily thinking about this part after I'm out of duty. Is it fair in a month, in 3 months to get some benefits, I think it's a subject that we'll all agree on that we should be regulated in a better way than this bill. Especially if we're reading the proposal, the initial proposal, if we're reading the amendments made by the government, a little bit of being maybe, I won't say awkward, but I'm afraid it's bringing confusion to the fullest of this bill. It is said that after the end of the term of office, 45 days is the deadline and that the contract is concluded. With who? And that ultimately refers to the 9th convocation, namely us colleagues and colleagues. That's what it says, or maybe I'm misreading. Independently to whom it applies and it is better to discuss what concerns us specifically when we stop the mandate for what reason it will be. Namely, why did I read the oath? The fact is that there is, here and now to count how many of us are here in the assembly, what's the reason? Is there a topic that might be on the agenda for a reason? Is it, as the MPs have been said, whether they are somewhere on the ground, likely that, with this subject, we are inevitable to touch a number of topics, from the Electoral Law, from the Constitution that very clearly defines what Parliament is, which are parliamentary representatives, from the Rules of Procedure. So now we've reached out to the Code of Parliamentary Representatives. And now that we put all that together into one thing, then we see that we're doing it ourselves, we're trying too hard to regulate something that's sworn, I'm personally looking at the HNS Club honorary duty. I feel a little uncomfortable, a little uncomfortable, I feel like a congressman ashamed in a literal sense of the word and with the fundamental initiative of this bill because I think that certain things that are here, I'll go, let's just say I don't know, who resigned on a parliamentary duty has no right to compensation. What reason could be behind the resignation? Can there be family reasons in the family, I don't know, family or don't know anything? And then we'll penalize it, objective, justifiable reasons. Then, the mayor's duty, the chief. Well, that's the topic we can discuss. Give the bill of law that the incompatible function of the head of local self-government and parliamentary representative is, then you won't need to regulate it that way. Is that incompatible, to what extent. There are about 40, 30, 40, 45 of local self-government, there are even more, whether we are councilors etc., whether the number of people in the Republic of Croatia who have said I would homopolitically be sufficient in terms of both quantity and quality that can adequately discuss the laws passed. A series of laws in both the 7th and the 8th, and now in this session, there were those directly affecting the lives of the citizens. No one can convince me here in the assembly that people who, whether councilors, county, municipal, city, mayors, mayors, are better understood these problems, that topic and that they know these problems better. No one can convince me of that. Furthermore, they may agree with their colleague, Bunjec, Article 6a, 'justified absence'. So we're going to have to be parliamentary representatives to the President of the Parliament who's the same parliamentary representative, as elected as all of us here, so I'd say the first among the equals has a more honorable function, means bringing excuses from doctors as children at school. And I don't think even in school it's mandatory anymore, but a parent can tell it. Well, now happy is whoever has a parent that can, alive, write him a story, where I've had, I've been sniffing, I've had a high temperature, so I couldn't make it to the Parliament's session. Attendance in social policy, how can we interpret that? In particular, I have a meeting of the party's presidency, whether local, regional levels, whether national and cannot be at the Parliament's session, is that justified? And I remind you of the way we've been run, how we've been elected, and what the Constitution defines, or what political parties are. Are we going to have to bring invitations to all these, all these events, conferences and events with names and last names, or can be a general invitation where it doesn't say that he's invited, and that it's an excuse for us and then as children at school to bring whether the secretary, whether the president of the Parliament sees it, and then he'll do let's say one assessment whether I had to or one of us had to go to that event. I think some of the things in this bill are that I can get rid of the Rules of Procedure, that I don't need the law. This was emphasized both in the public debate and in the first reading. Furthermore, I've said my penalization on this thing, so I think it's much simpler for a colleague of the Podolnjak to suggest that a break be lifted, I don't see any reason why not. You can't penalize on the salary. And I repeat again, this is an honorary duty, at least that's how I look at it, and I believe everyone here. As far as the government's proposal is concerned, the government's views namely wanted to fix something that neither the HDZ party agrees with in principle, it is seen from these amendments, and these amendments have virtually changed everything that was fundamental intensities. I'm just going to remind you of your colleagues and colleagues, and in the opening line I said the 8th Assembly of the HDZ-MoST Coalition Assembly, we know how it ended, we remember how difficult it was to have a quorum. The quorum was not a problem because of the irresponsibility of MPs and MPs, it is a matter of political agreement and talks. And here today, as many of us as there are, it's not about the irresponsibility of the MPs, it's about the issues we're discussing, the issues discussed in the Parliament. We have proposed that we wait for the amendments to the Rules of Procedure to discuss some topics, we are discussing the 2015 reports, etc. I think this will trigger the extraordinary attention of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the extraordinary attention of MPs and MPs on something that has been past, long gone, and there are no lessons, and there is no repercussion of today. We are in April 2017, we proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, I don't know where it is. Has the committee drawn up any final proposal to discuss this on committees, which is, of course, for us and of course, if the assessment of the committee's conclusion to lead the debate on the tide is absolutely to vote only in parliament. As far as the government's position is concerned, she tried to make a difference, so there's a technical thing I don't know instead of number 30 being replaced within 15 days. Let's say one example, according to this bill when we look at the initial proposal from MOST and when we look at the government's opinion and attitude, I'd like you to deny me if I'm wrong, there's a colleague and colleagues who actually came to this law that they should become the leaders of local self-government, I believe it's wrong, but under this law can't be changed technically, which doesn't make any sense. Because we know very well in which way local self-government leaders have been elected since 2009, as well as before. The city council was elected before, since 2009. And you suggest that now these changes can be made by the government, that a contract can be subsequently concluded with someone who does with Croatian waters, whether with the Croatian forests, the public sector, so what if the people of the administration do not want it. There have been new changes in the reorganisation, new systemization and there is no room for you in that company anymore. Are there sanctions for that? They don't exist, they can't exist. So the MP stays on that six plus six unless he gets somewhere else. Some things are also prescribed and should also be asked about the conflict of interest. We have a series of colleagues who were practically unconscious, not wanting to find themselves in a conflict of interest after they stopped acting, were state secretaries, ministers, etc. I think some of the topics that we've overregulated, too detailed. I am in favour of defining things more precisely, but I think we're in a network of laws that we're trying to do, but I don't know what we're trying to do with it. I understand pre-election promises, but also let's go back to the very beginning. What was next for this one? Salary of representatives at the Croatian Assembly 9.999 kuna, I think it was a slogan or programme of MOST. So where are we? That's what you keep quiet about, so now we're going to go this way and say "breathing." Let's also remember that government 7 calls in when the parliamentary pensions were lifted. Okay. So then we've been cut down, so there's no representative left on the garage, so day parking 50, 100 kunas, so let's go, people, let's cancel the pay. Let's go, as was once said on the board, a representative takes travel expenses to work somewhere in a company or not to work, and then it'll be the simplest, not the simplest. We think I'm dealing with myself, and this is nothing more than trying to make a pre-election promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36556	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36557	Dear counterpart Batinic, I agree with you that this law should not have been discussed at all or should have been proposed. I was also in my opinion in that 7th session when you mentioned him about that part of the change, at the time of 2013 it seemed to me that it was. When we're here, we're talking about the rights of Parliamentarians and duties. Just as you said we all accepted them and we all here said the word "I swear" with the oath we made. But there's pulsism, and it's taken a lot of swings. Especially in that section we heard from Mr. Podlnjak when he mentioned municipalities and cities and taking care of the state budget and as if the municipality, the city is not one part of the state in that part. What I would like to personally be discussed when talking about the rights and duties of MPs is nowhere to be heard, these are working conditions, a large number of MPs in this Croatian Parliament. How many of us have an office here in the Croatian Parliament, except for this assembly and these huge piles of paper in front of us? How much technical support there is in the preparation of certain proposals, or we have to figure out how we're doing, we're in some offices where we are, we're not talking about it at all. The same idea was similar to these pills. How many of us are using them anyway? That's the kind of thing you should be talking about. About whether 6 months is a lot, little, if someone is 56, 57, 58 years old, after the term of office, the question is who and when will hire him. Not everyone wants to get their hands open like that right away to the job of some parliamentary representative. And that was the point of the '90s exactly that right that was acquired by the parliamentary representatives. We're banging on our own. On the other hand, we're talking about this assembly and we're not talking about what's going on on the committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36558	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36559	Thank you, Vice President. You understand, colleague Klaric, because you've been at a local level for many years and you understand the needs of citizens, and I think I'm taking it upon myself, although maybe someone won't give me a far better understanding of what is a problem for the citizens, the laws passed by this Assembly or regulations or regulations that the government makes because we live in the field. That's what I got myself right. But what was I going to say? Unfortunately, I don't feel comfortable, I don't feel comfortable as a parliamentary representative and if I had to speak to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in front of voters who chose me about themselves. But I just have to. That's the first one. And what I would like to say again, I agree that an effort should be made to raise the level of quality of work in the Assembly, as long as we are already talking about it, even though when we look at a few, in the back of a few terms, the average assessment of the work of the Parliament according to some studies of 2 to some skinny threes. None of the Parliament's council has had any more, so neither will this one, I believe. So it's a question of some trends and a question of some perception of the public which is Parliament. If this is how we are going to achieve a greater number of MPs and MPs in the Parliament, I am not convinced of that. And what I think is first and foremost, so the Electoral Law, who chose us, who do we answer to? We answer to voters, citizens who have given us confidence, who have given us a voice, not without, with all due respect, to the President of the Parliament that I carry the excuses that where I have been, whether I have been paid with maids, I will say on Wednesday or Tuesday or Thursday, depending on when the fair day is and why I was there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36560	Thank you. The next is the replica of the distinguished representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36561	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Batinić, I agree with a lot of your things, and I don't think this law solves anything in essence, that everything remains the same, that it is one part of populism. In 25 years, however, a few things had to be laid down in the Assembly. I believe that every parliamentary representative should have one remorse for their constituents who chose him and should really be inside and discuss their region, about the people who chose him. We say there are no interesting topics in the Parliament. Yes, I could say that there are really no interesting topics in the Parliament, what people would be interested in. Why am I saying that? We have so many problems in a state we're not talking about. Watch out, tax law when someone doesn't pay goes out of date, shame. Someone didn't, I'm a businessman, shame on someone who didn't pay taxes, and he's getting it out of date, so everyone who paid to be a simple fool. It must never go out of date. Second thing, we have the CNB... Agrocorome. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what gentlemen need to discuss. It's billions, it's not a matter of 500 kuna fines of a parliamentary representative, it's billions of dollars. No one in the Parliament, it's a subject we don't need to discuss. That's exactly what we need to discuss. To discuss problems, here I will tell of my Slavonia, how my Slavonia was destroyed, why was it destroyed? These are questions about what we need to discuss. Not if I'm here, it's as if I'm a council representative ashamed not to come to this House and it's my honor to be here. The people chose me and I thank them. However, we must discuss the topics that interest these citizens. So the topics that raise both the standard and the morals of the citizens. Now that's a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36562	Thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36563	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Misic, I agree and I said that there would probably be more of us here in the assembly that we have some far more current topics for discussion than is specifically this bill. On but also, I believe you've heard and I'll repeat it, so that in that wish and the club of the HNS and our club and HSU would also like to make a contribution and be constructive in this part. So it should change a lot more laws so that practically everything that is proposed here can be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So the electoral law, the Constitution, the constitution as a fundamental act, the electoral law, and then I believe that the Rules of Procedure would be more than enough to get rid of these things. Now, as for the up-to-date topic on the work of Parliamentarians where their jobs are. I think the question of public perception is that there are too few issues that are currently being opened, here we agree and I say I am not about to discuss reports from 2015 here on the tide, but that it is just up to date that it is not just through the search for a break that points to certain problems in the Republic regardless of the region, the city, the municipality or anyone else. I believe that he should also practically appeal to Parliament's presidency to try in this way to contribute and make his contribution to increasing Parliament's dignity, as well as to the interests of the citizens themselves for the work of the Parliament, or I believe that this would in some way attract a far greater number of us Assembly representatives and by including us in the debate not only the presence at the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36564	Representative Branimir Bunjac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36565	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Batinić, your debate was good because it further strengthened the shortcomings of the proposed law and you made a good point that this law should go into third reading. Indeed, there is hardly any article that does not have a point in this final proposal for a law that should not be amended, which should not be processed, which should not be further reconsidered. As you said yourself, the fact that I don't know how to punish someone who resigned as a parliamentary representative, whether it makes sense or doesn't make sense, whether it's necessary to carry medical certificates for a disease, and it's not necessary to carry a non-fatal death certificate or such things, there's a lot of details about which you would be able to discuss. And what you said in the end is quite true, namely, it's about the gap between wishes and the need to agree with coalition partners. Here we have now seen here from the presentation of MP Klaric that he is at all opposed to the debate on this law, let alone to accept its form and amendments or any other solutions that are offered. I think what's really basic is why there's a misunderstanding about this law is a lack of courage. So MOST basically made a pre-election promise, now trying to justify it somehow before the public, and on the other hand to satisfy a coalition partner who strongly opposes this law. For this reason, there will probably be nothing at the end of this law. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36566	Thank you. Time's up. Reply to the replica, MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36567	Thank you, Mr. President. A fellow Bunjac, so I think that more or less not just you but that all of us, the vast majority here can agree with some of the thesis that I've put out, even if it's in some replicas and it's confirmed as such. However, look at the policy is, I at least look at it that way, and I believe everyone here in the Assembly is working in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Now, at certain times, it is said that everything is allowed in the campaign and in love, so it is likely that certain messages in the campaign at pre-election times sound nice, clapping to you, etc. But there comes a time when you have to look the truth in the eye, when you have to sober up from that euphoria, and when you try to get something like that in one bill, then you see that it's not that simple. First of all, this bill, according to us at the HNS Club, is anti-constitutional, first and foremost. Secondly, I'm going to repeat what I said, so with the government amendments, it's completely changed the intensity and meaning, and in the end, the law itself has been changed. And that's why I suggested a reasonable solution in order to make our contribution, so let's go to third reading maybe we can come up with some compromise. Let us not compromise the trade, no, but precisely for the reason that perhaps in some way the presence of MPs in the Assembly is increasing, although I am skeptical, the quality of the debate may also be. But I'm saying, I'm going back to what I said on my oath, this is what I consider an honorable duty and I'm trying to do that. So I'm not gonna throw away the floscules, I'm not gonna blur, I'm not gonna say what the citizens might want me to say at that point. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36568	Time's up. Thank you. Five minutes have been requested on behalf of the applicant. Agent Robert the Outer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36569	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It is indeed necessary to look back as a proposer to the discussions and replicas that have now been presented. I mean, some things I have to do again probably some other time, obviously in the opening statement aren't noticed enough. First, as a proposal we will not accept the third reading of this legislative proposal. That is why there is really no reason for us to accept all the amendments that have been submitted. Amendments to the Government, the Legislative Committee and the Constitution Committee, which we will only complete with one sentence. But the intensity of the amendment has been accepted. These amendments were neither contradictory nor fundamentally amended the final draft of the law. If we have accepted all the amendments that have come, which have become an integral part of the final bill, we see no reason to delay the adoption of this law. A colleague of Bunjac has announced certain amendments but we do not have them at this time and when they eventually come about them we will be able to manifest ourselves. Therefore, there is no need for a third reading. Furthermore, I would like to say again that in this final draft of the law, and precisely on the basis of the debate that was brought into, at first reading, we have completely removed any discretionary role of the President of the Croatian Parliament. There has been an observation on how the president of the Croatian Parliament will decide whether someone is justified or unjustly absent from the Croatian Parliament. The final draft of the law makes it very clear that the president of the Croatian Parliament is only mentioned in the work when he approves of the official travels of MPs as before. And it is not even considered a absence, it is part of the work of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So his roles are not in any writing of excuses as indicated. So, when the representative is rightly left out of the session of the Croatian Parliament and the reasons which can be considered justified are listed here, then the representative will submit the documentation to the working body of the Croatian Parliament responsible for administrative affairs, not to the President of the Croatian Parliament. It was precisely an intensification from the debate to remove the discretionary evaluation of one person and to burden the president of the Croatian Parliament with a bunch of documentation. And that is why we have transferred it to the working body of the Croatian Parliament, which will objectively see whether the representative is reasonably missing. And, of course, it will be accompanied by certain documentation and will, in particular, be prescribed by this working body of the Croatian Parliament. We therefore do not consider any disputed indication of the basis for the justified absence of MPs. For example, he mentioned counterpart Batinic, which means attending socio-political events. For example, if you were invited on the day of the county and you were attending the day of the county or any other representative in our opinion would be considered justified by the absence of a representative from the session, you would attach the documentation and that is about one reason that might be considered justified. Furthermore, it was about that, I think you said that the amendments to the government seemed to have significantly changed the final draft of the law. No, they're not. Part of the amendment is the nomotechnical nature we've accepted. The thing where the government's amendments differ from our final bill is that we immediately envisioned the return of MPs to office and the government's amendment is heading towards that after 2 months. So two months... [[Adversity President: Representative Podolnjak timed out.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36570	Thank you. Replica was reported by MP Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36571	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Podolnjak, I was speaking, so if I have the party presidency it will not be justified for you, but if I am invited to the county, municipality, city etc. Article of the Constitution, I don't know now, but he thinks you should know him best, the Constitution, that political parties are a constitutional category. You can't by law, or by your judgment, or even more or less that my departments are valorizing and estimating whether it's one way or the other. I return you to the oath that we all took if we're honorable people, and I consider myself, I consider you and everything here, then I think there must be some, let's say the code of one other level. Furthermore, I should wear an invitation or any of us to the professional service of the assembly. So suggest we also sign a contract of work, propose it, this bill that every parliamentary representative, we have the Labour Act in the Republic to sign a contract of work as a parliamentary representative and that we have all the rights of duty and obligations of the Labour Act. So please, come on. In this way with this proposal, you're even more derogating this home and us as parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36572	Replication response by representative Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36573	I didn't realize in which way we derivated the rights, we this legal proposal...... This law protects the rights of counsel, and you may not have been sure about it, but only by this legislative proposal if it is adopted will you have the right and all parliamentary representatives to return to work with the former employer on the same or relevant jobs they have done before. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's the right now that MPs don't have but other state officials do. So it is the right of ministers, State Secretarys, Assistant Ministers and other State Secretarys, MPs do not have and it was found by the Constitutionals several years ago. So it is only this legislative proposal that we return this right to the MPs in order to be sure that they return to the workplace as well as other state officials and to reduce the need to use this fee that they have received so far at a maximum of six plus six. So we just want to cut that fee by guaranteeing MPs the right to return to work as all other state officials do. And we do not consider any way by adopting this legislative proposal to reduce the rights of MPs or in any other way affecting the dignity of MPs in the conduct of this duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36574	Representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36575	Dear colleague Podolnjak, something that's been regulated, and it's been regulated long since we've changed, and I really can't understand when you've explained some calls, some excuses, some excuses for something. Everyone and my place of work and each of us here from the Parliament is the job of his constituency from which he came, that's one thing. The second thing, every city, every municipality, many and many associations feel extremely respected on our part as parliamentary representatives if we respond to their event, the ceremony, the day of the municipality, the day of the city, the council of the local board, or I don't know what kind of events... which people have worked so hard to organize. I don't see the reason why you're putting in some kind of practice for something that's perfectly normal. If we have the honor, and I believe we do, if we took an oath as said by our colleague Batinić, then it is the oath that binds each of us to something. And what I don't understand is also mentioning on your side of the quorum, it has to be a quorum otherwise it's going to be punished. Well, the quorum is or is not a form of political struggle and this is a political arena, so I'm experiencing this assembly and it doesn't always have to be full. Why does every bench have to be full? How long now is the board meeting? How many parliamentary deputies in some canton do so by sea must study to prepare for debate because there is no conditions for work? That's what we're talking about, and trust each and every one of us, it's embarrassing for me and it's embarrassing for me to talk about this here because it concerns some of our rights as a parliamentary representative and what's about to happen to us. But we're making up hot water. If I have to explain that I'm at a municipal or city council meeting tomorrow night, then it's funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36576	Replication response by representative Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36577	I must tell you that, in the preparation of this final bill, we have talked to the leaders and individual club representatives and also the biggest club representatives in this House in order to ensure that maximum and consensus support is possible and that these talks are based, for example, on these provisions on the delivery of documentation which will justify their absence from the Parliament. So we didn't write it just because we thought it would be good, but based on the consultations we had with the leaders of the committee clubs in this House, which is why we believe that this proposal will ultimately have broad support. And in the end, we have said countless times, but it is worth repeating is not the work of MPs only here at the plenary session and when he records the arrival of the Croatian Parliament is considered to be working both here and on the board and will be in his representative club and will receive parties and will be recorded as coming and working in the Croatian Parliament, not only here when citizens see him at the plenary session as is the case now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36578	Representative Zeljko Glasnovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36579	A respected colleague, for those who have learned to work in an organization, say the police, the military knows what hierarchy is, what is centrally planned, detrailism and performance where everything is known and every man knows his job, this is a little frustrating for some people sitting in this House. But I wonder who the MPs are responsible for sitting here and what's going on? I've got some bad experience from clubs where you come in and the air-conditioning like a man has a rope built in here in his neck and just like the bell air-conditioning, there's no argument open. If there are policy priorities here, I'd like to see Mr. Podolnjak, you have these two big parties and others to set those priorities. Since I am an independent representative to start discussing the problems of Croats in BiH for two, three days, to discuss the Croatian diaspora that is totally excluded from this process, which brings a minimum of 16 billion kuna a year and plus a billion that is not registered here, etc. And you all have how to assess the success of the work of the MPs, and that's also a mystery to me. You have this virtual world, when you go out somewhere you need evidence, videos, lectures, round tables, etc. networking with our diaspora and other factors important for Croatia, etc. We're talking about the code, from Mr Batinić I've heard that word of honesty, the code, and how we have people in the Constitutional Court who have been voted by people sitting here working in state-owned enterprises and these companies are bankrupt and there are serious doubts that they've stolen the money by these three main points. Work organised and priorities Second, the success of work and evaluation and third to erase that word code and morality from this work. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36580	Thank you. Time's up. Representative Glasnović, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36581	Thank you. [[Invader Glasnović: If we choose such constitutional judges.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36582	The HDZ advocates' club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name, MP Drazen Bosnjakovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36583	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Rights and Officials of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, so the second is reading. We see that there are a large number of amendments and the promoter himself has already said in his presentation that most of these amendments will accept. It's been a lot of words, actually, and it's been directed at all to whether we need this kind of law, whether we even go into these kind of legislative changes. And if we were to actually look at this whole matter, we'd see that actually there are provisions that regulate the rights and duties of the MPs that are dispersed in a whole series of laws. It is also in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest both in the Election Law and in our Rules of Procedure and in the Constitution we see. So there are a lot of legal texts that regulate this issue. This is an attempt, as the promoter said, that through these changes, some things are much clearer and more precise than they are so far, but in fact it comes from one fact that the work and dignity of the Parliament, its reputation at a much lower level, and they would say, in fact, MPs and then even more generally, politics itself, when this low level of reputation is quite questionable. Will by passing this law we raise the reputation of Parliament and dignity? I agree with those who think they won't. But that we're going to regulate some things more precisely, that's for sure. And I don't think there's any law that we could say by making it ourselves now from 1. 1. In 2018, the reputation of the Parliament will be greater, we will be more quality, our discussions will be more quality, such a law actually does not exist. The only ones who can raise the Parliament's reputation are us here today who are here, who are sitting and those of course others that aren't here today. And we can do it in a way that we can have quality discussions. By this I do not think that they must be some kind of scientific approach, but we represent certain voters who have chosen us in election units, certain segments of society, and we are obliged to actually deliver their voice here in this House. Of course, we should do this in a way to tolerate different opinions, to be in our attitudes towards colleagues quite politely, tolerantly, and I think that would contribute naturally to Parliament's reputation, especially if we are passing quality laws which would mean having a reflection of our own to make the situation in society better. It means stopping the emigration of young people, bringing in measures and laws and other acts that would contribute to the growth of social gross products, which would contribute to employment growth, which would reduce public debt, which would reduce the deficit of the state budget. Now, in this mandate that we are, if our society had a strong step forward, that would certainly be the reputation of both the Parliament and the Government and other state bodies. The HDZ Club will support this bill. We don't have a problem with any punishment here because a lot of words have been spent, a lot of debate has been spent on whether or not the MPs who are not present in the Parliament will be retired, whether it should be every day when the Parliament is sitting, whether it should be just on the day of the vote. The promoter here made it very clear that there is an amendment to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system that defines the institute differently so that the pension could be implemented for any day when the Assembly is sitting. I think it is nothing unusual and that other parliaments also have this, that they have even a little stronger and more drastic measures. And our next chance is if this is what we want are amendments to the Rules of Procedure, possibly amendments to the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, and certainly that we can still go there with some stronger and stronger measures. I must say that in public, it has echoed that measure from the European Parliament, which the President of the European Parliament gave to the representative who, by his statement, insulted, and has offended and there has been a very harsh penalty imposed and monetary but also it in the ban on participation in the work of the committee and Parliament itself. Here are various possibilities for us, but as far as I'm concerned, whatever we put into the laws unless we're aware and responsible ourselves, if we don't work alone in the interests of society, in the interest of the community, they've passed the vote of voters who chose us for the greater good, none of it can actually help. The punishment itself won't contribute to me, but I think it's a good thing to have it. And at the end of the election, they're the only judges and they're the ones who are going to evaluate whether we're doing good, not doing good, whether we're doing good or not, and it's going to be awkward and it's not going to be good if someone gets on that list that they actually had to pay for a living or I don't know what because, without any reason, he's out of his job. Being a parliamentary representative is very specific, I would say a very specific working relationship which does not have many of those specifics and those elements that have a classical working relationship. But also not only in some rights but also in obligations. We all know that we are actually taking part in various events and Saturdays and Sundays and holidays, and it is all in some way the obligation of a parliamentary representative that he performs and some things are difficult to measure. An empty assembly, in any case, it's nicer to see an assembly that's more filled and the debate itself, maybe the number of debates doesn't mean the quality of the debate, so someone who keeps discussing and who keeps reporting for the word and keeps saying something, doesn't mean that it's constructive, does not mean that it contributes to the quality of the law that we make. But all of that we can judge each other and say this one's good this isn't good, but it doesn't make much sense. The only judges are voters, are the elections that will then assess whether the Parliament has done its job well or not. I also agree with those who have said that there is a need to work very hard to improve the conditions for the work of parliamentary deputies because it is not right that MPs do not have offices, that they do not have some kind of infrastructure that helps them work as it does in other parliaments, and that is certainly what needs to be done in the future. We, as a club, will support this law, we don't have ambitions and we don't think it's important to raise the level of the Parliament's reputation tomorrow in public, but these things that it regulates, which it proposes to regulate, we think they're a good step because in any case this fee when the parliamentary mandate stops six plus six plus three plus three is a little annoying whether someone can have someone who's been two, three days in the Parliament and then a year there's that fee. This regulates it much more precisely than it is now, and on the other hand, the right of parliamentary deputies is strengthened when they return on the basis of those contracts and those agreements that regulate the right to return to the jobs they have done before. Here, the HDZ club supports, it's good that the government is involved with this number of amendments, I agree with Professor Podlonjak who said, these amendments do not deviate from the text they have proposed, they only actually fix it in a certain part and specify the moment in principle when there is no more compensation, that is the moment when there is no agreement, but when the representative is returned to the workplace from which he came. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36584	Representative Blaženko Boban answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36585	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bosnjakovic. Yes, the promoter has the intensities that this law in some way improves the picture towards the public of the work of the Parliament and to this extent I welcome the intensity of the promoters to improve the image, what this image will be and how much will be improved by this law, this time will show and see. I don't think so, because a number of other acts really need to be changed, so even legal acts need to be changed that aren't just about this. For example, whether mayors of large cities can be parliamentary representatives and do this job well and be mayors of large cities. Then the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament whether it is possible for parliamentary deputies to bounce so much from agenda issues by insulting all other colleagues, including not only colleagues in the Assembly but also beyond, so the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament must be changed. This code, too, is unfortunately needed, but it's funny that a parliamentary representative, a person who acts as one of the biggest duties in the Republic of Croatia should write a code, that's really funny. And, of course, working conditions. You know that the days here I will return only to this that almost 50 people from this assembly will run for seats in the executive power of the Republic of Croatia, which we now have in the next period. And as for the conditions of working in the Parliament, I think there are no working tables anywhere around 70 to 80 parliamentary deputies. That is indeed, I am taking the opportunity to replicate Mr. Bošnjakovic and you and the President of the Parliament here, and he hears it too, it is not allowed to do so without talking about some other aids that are needed as volunteers, advisors, professional services. I know there are in clubs, but it's really not enough for a parliamentary representative to prepare the debate very well and prepare for the agenda points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36586	Reply to the replica, Representative Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36587	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Boban, you've raised a lot of issues and questions in this replica, and it's quite certain that what's important is that he very often deviates from what's on the agenda. And many MPs jump out of it and then the debate is very often divorced and goes to some places that have nothing to do with what's on our agenda. It may be fun sometimes, there might be a little fight there, it might be one way or another, but it doesn't contribute to work, it doesn't contribute to making a better law, a better quality act. It's just that we're looking forward to it, and very often we're doing this estrace, and it's not welcome, and I think that this kind of tendency should go down slowly. And this is a very serious question that you have opened for the participation of the mayor in the work of the Parliament is the question of whether it is possible to perform such two very serious, responsible duties at the same time. You're as head of local self-government as far as I know about the legislative function and that's a question that regulates again some other laws that need to be accounted for in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36588	Representative Marija Jelkovac responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36589	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bosnjakovic. I agree with you that it is a good thing that we have defined a certain matter more precisely than the current situation, and thus this possibility of returning by virtue of the agreement or contract to the tasks which the representative has acted before the agent's duties because so far we have applied this provision from the Law on State officials. However, I think that this provision remains the only problematic interpretation if these are not the same jobs but the jobs that are relevant, which are the relevant jobs so that there may be certain concerns, however, this practice will probably further prove to be a solution. I think there's a lot of talk today about whether or not we're going to return the dignity of us as agents to this kind of change. I personally believe that all of us here, truly taking an oath, have committed ourselves to honoring this duty. And it is up to each of us to personally assess whether for him today a greater benefit towards his citizens is to sit here as a representative or perhaps perform some other duty in his election unit, that he is among his fellow citizens, to talk to them, to receive them, etc... So I want to say what's already been pointed out here. We will all answer after the term of office of our constituents, our fellow citizens who chose us. So what we're here in the assembly, at the plenary session, is not our only obligation and citizens need to know. However, we must also not neglect that we must make a contribution here and that it is one of our major tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36590	Thank you. Reply to the replica, Representative Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36591	My colleague Jelkovac, the first question you have asked, means to return to work on those corresponding jobs or the same jobs, the parliamentary mandate is 4 years later, after 4 years it means from the middle or the workplace where someone left, maybe in 4 years that place is abolished, so it's gone. And it is true that in practice there are such situations that doubtful which are relevant, in other words, similar jobs that require approximately and similar expertise, skills and knowledge. However, there is a lot of court practice on this subject so I don't think that should be questionable. As far as this is concerned about this penalization, whether someone justifiably or unwarranted is actually missing from the session itself, I agree with you that they should actually be in constant contact with voters and that people should be. It seems to me that here in this bill the law is quite broad and set up, so that these reasons that are considered justified allow actually parliamentary representatives to meet and implement those obligations to voters without again coming into conflict with this whether it is justified or unwarranted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36592	Representative Franjo Lucic, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36593	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, I listened to your argument, and I would totally agree. Of course we won't be against this bill, but we are really wondering, and that's what my people ask me, and I come from Požesko-Slavon County, and there's always a question that I've been discussing with the press here a few times what it is about the work of a parliamentary representative. Do I, as a parliamentary representative who was sent here from my Požega-Slavon County and who chose me to be their representative here, really participate as one of my colleagues here spoke in the circus here because some representatives here are really circusing in this House or that I am really fighting for the projects of my county and my cities, my municipalities, and that's for sure that's the case? And as a representative here, that's exactly what I'm doing, I'm fighting for all the projects in my county, in the cities and in the municipalities. And if I'm not here, that doesn't mean I don't work here in this House. In fact, I may be doing far more than just some individual MPs sitting here all day replicating each other, and eventually, when they add up their day, they didn't do anything. And I, on my way out of this Parliament, have been going around and lobbying for my projects in the county, in cities and municipalities, just doing what my citizens sent me for. And I'll keep doing it. And I don't think I have to sit here for 15 hours or I don't know how long and I certainly believe that I'm far more meaningful and valuable because I'm going to realize all those projects that I've accomplished along with my mayors, the mayors in my county. And certainly it's prosperity not for my county but for all the county and for all the MPs who do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36594	Reply to the replica, Representative Bošnjaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36595	Dear Lucic, I fully agree with you, there is someone who can sit here and have no attitude at all while actually doing something at his electoral base, doing something related to the realization of the programme, it will be visible in his area tomorrow and as such will be very recognized. And I agree with you that the low level of reputation of the Parliament is precisely based on the fact that the discussions are very often empty, that they are useless, that they have gone beyond the subject that they are and that they are their own purpose. I believe, but it can't change any law, it's actually an individual thing, and that's the thing and those vows that we all made when we came here. To hope only that in fact our voters, that people who watch and follow it will know well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36596	Representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36597	Dear counterpart Bošnjakovic, you said well that the government had become involved in the final proposal of this law, i.e. the amendment, I am saying fortunately that the government had become involved because the consequences had a little lessened. I have a feeling that the focus of this debate is back in the wrong place, and I think this is one form, let's call it the populism that's been going through Parliament all this time. It's crazy to even discuss justifying the absence and penalization. We can sit here all the time, be a Parliament full and contribute zero. We are envoys, we are elected to election units, based on some electoral programs and based on something we want done and implemented in our area in our term of office. And the fact is that this assembly of ours is not the only job of a parliamentary representative. And this whole story and focus that goes in that direction to secure some quorum, I've said that before in the debate quorum is a form of political struggle. Well, it's normal if there's a club, a coalition in power, that everything will be negotiated before. Whether it's a quorum on some committee or not, it's a political way of doing it again and penalizing here and forcing someone to be there, I think it's just funny. And all the time we've been spinning around whether there has to be a full assembly or not has to be a full assembly. And this is exactly the kind of debate that leads to our viewer watching us right now counting how empty the chair is, which is ridiculous. The work isn't just an assembly, it's the one that can be seen and it's some kind of stage. If we have a television broadcast, the work of a parliamentary representative is much bigger and much wider than what this law is trying to get through here. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36598	Thank you. Time's up. The SDP representative club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will be the representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36599	Thank you. Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club understands the intensities of the legislators of this law to fix in some way the image of the Parliament, to increase the dignity of the Parliament, we understand and we support it and we will therefore support this bill on several conditions. Some colleagues, Podolnjak, have already announced, are above all the amendments to the Government that we consider to be important in correcting the basic text of the law, but we already have an indication that the promoter will accept them. There is also an amendment to the Constitution Committee, which the proposer said would accept in part, without saying which part he would accept it in, in which he would not, and in which we do not know, so we are in the dark. And our condition is, we think that the amendment is crystal clear, that it should not be clarified and that it should be accepted entirely. And there will be some other amendments to the SDP that we think are fixing the text, and I will now try to explain them during the debate and that will therefore be the conditions for us to adopt the law. We also don't think that he's going to make a difference, we're really not that optimistic, but we hope that at least he won't make it worse in relation to this situation, and the question of whether it can be worse. When we go through the very text of the law, then I think we should start thinking about why some institute was passed. For example. six plus six, so it wasn't the institute that was adopted to please the MPs, but to strengthen their independence, so that they had a secure existence when their mandate expired, that's the only reason. Because if they don't have what they're going to do? They will not be citizens' representatives, they will become representatives of large capital that will then hire them the first day after their term is over, that was the reason when it was first introduced into the law. And when we abolished parliamentary pensions, and we abolished my government's mandate and my parliamentary majority, I don't think we did a good job and we thought enough about it. So, because that's the reason. Now the question is, what do we want? If we want the MPs to become representatives of large-scale capital and the banks to lift all their rights. So it's no problem for the banks to pay ten, twenty MPs. So when this happened, it wasn't enough to think about the reasons. And what's the greater damage? Is it a greater shame that several hundred or ten thousand kunas will be paid in the state budget, or that the greater damage will be to destroy the position of MPs and to make it a large capital agent? And that's why the HNS Club's proposal to do the third reading, I understand it, is not in that direction to move away from the adoption of this law, but to think about it one more time, the cold heads and the good faith. What does the representative prove under this law, Article 3 of the presence? With his electronic card, he writes by participating in the work of the working bodies, working in the club of representatives, and the trip of MPs following the approval of the President of the Parliament, but let's say that there is no involvement at all in the plenary session. I haven't since we got these cards once stamped, I haven't done it on purpose, because I don't think my voters or the general public are going to judge me about when at the end of my term, how many times I've printed that card, but I guess they're going to judge me by how I work in this House, I guess. It may happen, imagine a representative four years will come in the morning, make sure he's here to turn on the heel and come out, four years. No one will ever speak a word in this House, no one will be able to even remember it because no one has ever seen it, and in the end, it will have, according to this bill, extraordinary statistics, the best, much better than you who propose this law. And the newspaper will write that as the most active representative so far, he's never missed a single session without even being there. And it's one of the traps of this bill that I don't think is thought of. I understand the intensity, so the intensity is good, so we support the intensity. The worst part seems to me to be these justified absences of counsel and reason. A disease, which the representative is obliged to justify by medical confirmation. Now tell me if there were any agents who never had a virus, I don't think there was one. You got a virosis, you had a fever of 38, you know it's a virosis, you have to be home for three days to go doesn't make sense with a temperature of 38 or 39 to go out, no home visits for that sort of thing. And who's going to give you that need now? Because you can't trust a lawyer when he says I had a virus of people. He's got to bring some kind of confirmation. Then, a death in the family. And what if a friend of mine dies in Metkovic, a good friend of mine, and I'd like to go to his funeral? But I can't, under this law I can't because he's not in my family, he's just a friend of mine, and I can't go to Metkovic in two hours and go back to the session. And I'm going to be left from that session that day and I'm going to be punished for going to a funeral, my friend. If we were to go taxing on these reasons now, we could lead them to 200 and still not meet them, we wouldn't describe life as a whole, how life is actually going on. And it all stems from a complete mistrust in an MP, a complete mistrust which I don't think is good, as a starting point is not good. Of all these, there's one more provision missing, and there's a SDP club going to make an amendment to make things a little bit better, at least a little bit. What are MPs? They are political persons, political persons working within some political parties. Isn't your justified absence working for the party? Because I can imagine my party telling me to stay home for three days and write a bill, it's much more useful than sitting there. And to tell me go to the Carlovac, make conversation with our party people there. So work for the party, we're all party people and it's work, it's not avoiding work, it's work that according to this proposal as it says now and without that amendment, it wouldn't be possible. And that meant we don't understand ourselves, we don't understand the nature of our work. I was on an official trip to Israel and we went to Knesset there. They've got a little bit bigger than this one of ours at the entrance. There are photos and names of all MPs and MPs. Those who are in that moment in the building their photographs are shown in color, those who are not their photos are in black white technique, no squishing. He's got to get through the gate and he's got to get out and that's what that porter does. Now if they believe the porter, I don't know. But everyone in the world can see who that moment is in Knesset from their representatives and who not. I think this is among other things, it should be a question of club representatives. The representatives' clubs should be responsible for the conduct of their representatives because we are all MPs, there is a thousand times the responsibility of those who have chosen us, yes, on the one hand. But on the other hand, we're responsible for our club because that's what it looks like in practice. And when a single representative clashes with his club, he or the club throws out or he leaves the club himself and continues to act as an independent agent. So there's a club responsibility. I, for example, now here from the MPs, is the only one who is respected by Podolnjak. I don't think other people are unwarrantedly outright, probably doing something else. So I don't come from that belief that they're sloths that don't work and they're not even now that we're discussing their bill. Maybe the president sent them to something,...they've got a job on their own, maybe they have to take someone in. I'd like to start with that trust. What does this look like in the European Parliament? In the European Parliament, they have no penalties but rewards. And that's what European parliamentarians play with this bargaining. But he gets a diary when he's there and he doesn't get it when he's not. Is it possible to understand whether this cochlean can be understood in this way so that this cochlean who is now a co-legislator gets to pay for his travel expenses on the ground, he can turn himself around, rewarding his presence at a session, for example? But that means you should think about it one more time, discuss it again in good faith. And finally, there's our Rules of Procedure who, I think he's written for an exhibitionist among us. He supports them. And the media is more supportive of that. Well, you'll only come to the media if you make a serious circus in the Parliament. Because journalists don't seem to be interested in a serious debate, I guess they're bored, they're bored. But if a circus is made, then it's transmitted, and then the MPs misrepresenting it, they think it'll gain popularity. Well, I know them, I've been here a long time, they've been there, they've been known by older colleagues, they've called every time, 100 times a day, they've replicated, but anyone who's spoken. They were not re-elected, they were not re-elected. It's no guarantee of anything. The guarantee of re-election is your party and the quality of your representation work. At least in the SDP, I hope so in other parties. And as far as I can tell from the experience in general, it is, as a rule, it is. Therefore, it should strengthen the responsibility of the representatives' clubs, change the president of our Rules of Procedure, but go with it in the process, it goes through the Committee on the Constitution. I don't see any reason why you'd be replicating the club representatives, I don't see for example the reason. The reason. And then the last club of MPs may come behind the break today and the people following the session of the Assembly won't be able to hear the pause that one club of representatives thinks, but they will hear so that 20 replicas are completely unnecessary to the clubs of the previous one, completely unnecessary. Therefore, we are going to change the Rules of Procedure, which I think will be good. Let's bring in force both now and such a law, but let's say let's say that all of us are aware that this will not solve the basic problem and that we need to think in this direction where the SDP Club is thinking and I said my conditions to support this law at the beginning, the terms of the SDP Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36600	Representative Pernar has come forward with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36601	Dear fellow Stazic says that this law will not solve the fundamental problem, and the fundamental problem here is not the record of whether anyone appeared in the Assembly or not on Friday because this law does not define that people must sit in the assembly. So the law only de facto says they have to draw a card. And what, it's like the European Parliament. They come at 7 a.m. per day because if they were, I don't know how many 100, 200 euros. And what do they do? They come in with their suitcases at 7:00 in the morning, drag the card out and move on. That is what is happening in the European Parliament. And what we have a problem with in this House is that when we discuss, when the debates on the laws of the assembly are empty. And what shocks me most is that this bill comes from the parties, or coalition partners, who are unfortunately often not particularly involved in the debates and who appear in the Assembly only when it comes to hand-lifting. There. And then when he raises his hands, they show up anyway. So what's the point of this? The point is I don't know how to force opposition members to draw a card on Fridays. I don't understand what this is all about, and I don't understand what this is going to solve in a concrete sense. Here's my colleague Petrov as chairman, my colleague Podolnjak, two of you are here from the Most. There are no others, and like you, you bring the law to increase presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36602	Replica response, MP Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36603	There are fellow Pernar MPs of the parliamentary majority who come here on Friday when it is a vote to vote the law, it is their parliamentary duty, it is their obligation to the citizens who chose them and to their parties. But there are fellow Pernars and such MPs who are not present in the Parliament, come, say their replica and come out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36604	On behalf of the promoter, Mr Podolnjak answered the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36605	Mr. President, dear colleague Stazic. You said that your party, i.e. the club, would submit certain amendments and that you were not sure whether we had accepted the amendment of the Constitution Committee in that essential part, and that the essential part of it was that MPs who unwarrantedly did not come to the Assembly every day when the Assembly was in session, so when the meetings of the Parliament were reduced by their representative's fee for one daily. And that amendment is accepted by the Proposer. So we're not talking about Friday anymore, like my colleague Pernar says. So it is no longer the Friday day when the vote is voted but according to the final proposal it will be every day when the Croatian Parliament has a session. And there will be, therefore, three diaries, but one diaries, as the Committee of the Constitution has stated. If you have other useful suggestions, feel free to submit the amendment. Let me look back at some of the things you've brought out in a bit of a funny tone. You said we arranged things like that, maybe even exhibitionist. For example, you mentioned an advocate who has virosis, who is sick and who should now give medical confirmation that he would be sick. But we copied it from the German law. Therefore, a German representative, who is ill and who does not attend the session, can justify that he is not reduced by a medical certificate. So even when they prescribed it by law, they did not believe that the MP would only say that he was sick and that he did not come, but simply asked for medical confirmation. And we have rewritten that provision in this proposal. So a lot of what we've built into it exists in other laws. Perhaps in the next proposal, when the conditions are met and we may see how this legal text is implemented, we will also install those provisions that exist in other parliaments to record the entry of MPs into the assembly, such as in other parliaments that we have visited. There have been many words about the logic of this law and the purpose of its adoption. It is a fundamental function of this law that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia see MPs not only through ordinary records, they do their job primarily here in the Croatian Parliament, not only looking at us here in the Assembly but also at the working bodies and at other events in the Croatian Parliament. This law goes in this direction one step which we expect will also improve the work of the Croatian Parliament, but also that perception of citizens that we really work in the Croatian Parliament, which is our basic job. We are primarily here in the function of passing laws, budgets, government supervision, other state bodies it is a fundamental function of MPs, and besides that function is what you all stress that there is an electoral base, there are citizens, there are a number of entities that expect the help of MPs in solving certain issues or in affecting the assistance of different state bodies. Yes, that function stands absolutely, but for us as legislators is primarily a legislative function, a budgetary function, the supervisory function of this House as a state body, and in this sense we propose this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36606	Representative Nenad Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36607	You're telling the esteemed representative of the Podolnjak that you've copied some of the provisions from other laws of the other states. Now I understand why it seems that way because you haven't analyzed our situation, but you've written it over in critical terms. You're talking about representatives in Bundestag, I don't know what kind of medical care is in Germany, whether an agent in Bundestag may call a doctor who will come home and give him a certificate, but I doubt you know that, and if you know that, tell us because we can't get a representative because no one will come to him on a house visit. They'll ask him what's wrong with you, he'll say I have a fever, say drink lemon and aspirin and you'll be better, it's a virosis it must be, which is normal because that's our life. Our lives are not conducted in Germany, nor by the rules of Bundestag, but by Croatia. And that's why I called you from the pay phone as a proposaler of the most well-intentioned let's discuss this one more time, not in order to provide additional protection for the MPs or to avoid the discipline of the MPs, only that our regulations, the laws, come from our lives, and not from the German ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36608	Replication response by representative Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36609	Dear colleague, I have set only an example that in other laws there is in a similar or identical manner a regulated question which we have regulated and that in a German specific case is not trusted by the advocate in a word but is obliged to give confirmation for example that he is ill. So it's just that parallel nothing else, you've given examples of some other arrangements to the presence of MPs, even in a positive sense in some other parliaments. Of course we can't always compare the situation in other parliaments but the fact that they can be a good indication of how to regulate our law. And let us pass this law, see how it will apply in practice, whether there will be misunderstandings in the application of certain legal provisions. There is no perfectly written law. And now there is a Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, as I said earlier, which has caused a conflict of interpretation of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest and the former President of the Constitutional Court in interpreting a provision on the right to compensation after the conduct of the official of state. So, whatever the case is, the high-level lawyers who will interpret the law, therefore, and now there is an unequivocally resolutely very serious when the Committee for Decision-making on the conflict of interest initiates the process of liability of conflict of interest for the former President of the Constitutional Court. So no law is perfect, and neither is this one now as it says in the state officials' law, but practice will show if we can regulate something better. What we're proposing is going in that direction, I believe it deeply.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36610	Representative Milorad Pupovac is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36611	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Podolnjak, you certainly have good intentions, but trust those who have had good intentions to advance the work of the Parliament before you, but nothing has changed with that objectively looking at not the measures to change it, even with the amendments that you say you are willing to accept. Why? If we agree that clubs are to be held on Monday afternoon, and the committees are to be held on Tuesday and the plenary on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday's vote, why don't we stick to it? Why don't we make assumptions that we know what we're going to have on the agenda? I got here at half past ten this morning, I don't know what's gonna happen on the agenda after the first point. On what assumption do you think I can get ready to argue if I don't know what's on the agenda, and I don't master the agenda, but the presidency and the president. And that's the basic assumption of meeting the conditions for my work here being made possible and making sense and that I can contribute to it. If I'm not better off sitting in a bar because I'm gonna come here empty-headed and unconscious about what I'm supposed to do. And at the same time, I'll have two or three boards. Instead of doing them on Tuesday when we agreed we'd have a committee appointment. No, but we won't do it because people wouldn't want to travel to Zagreb on Tuesday. In other words, this is a much more complex mechanism, much more complex than what is imagined in this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36612	Thank you. Replication response by representative Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36613	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. There is certainly a way to improve the work of the Croatian Parliament, and I think it will certainly be a full contribution from the current President of the Croatian Parliament, but when you pointed out that you cannot know what will be discussed. I know that we've all got a consolidated agenda for continuing this session and that we're sticking to that purified agenda and that we're going exactly the way we got it by email a few days ago. So you could know as well as I that now the point second is this final bill of law. So we knew it was no surprise, we were informed about it. And exactly in line with this text of the consolidated agenda is taking place and this extension session is taking place. Here, therefore, the objection certainly cannot be addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36614	Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36615	Thank you, Your Honor. I think our citizens are more interested in the quality of the laws that we in the House are making than in how many of them are present, how many MPs are present in the Parliament. Namely, what's going on? It is important to tell our people who see this as not voting on their conscience in the House, that very few MPs vote on their conscience and that the vast majority of MPs, especially from the ranks of two large parties, vote mechanically. So if the proposal is from the government, everyone from HDZ will vote for even when it's a real estate tax, even when it's raising VAT in catering, etc. And now what's going on? We're in shape here. Whether or not I know more MPs in the Parliament or not by the measure of things, or by the essence of the laws that are being passed. And unfortunately, what will the Croatian people watch? They'll be watching the continuation of this agony just maybe in a slightly more filled composition. And they're going to have a situation that maybe there's going to be some more MPs and what's going to change in their lives? Nothing at all, nothing at all. Not some HDZ man now because he heard in the budget debate that the budget is unsustainable, that Minister Maric is bad. Or, say, when there's a debate about his shift, he won't now that he hears all our arguments say, so yes, I'll vote for Maric's shift, he won't. Why? Because his directive is from Plenkovic, you have to be for Maric and vote over his shift. So that's one theater of absurdity that I unfortunately don't see the point of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36616	... Thank you for not having the right word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Representative Milorad Batinic reported on the replica. I apologize for the reply to the replica, I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36617	Thank you, Mr. President. Arrival to the Parliament is a minimum and initial condition for the work of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, at the plenary session or in the working bodies or at another occasion in the Croatian Parliament. So that's a minimum starting condition. You must first of all come to the Croatian Parliament to work here afterwards. We want this law to ensure this first initial basic condition to bring representatives to the Croatian Parliament. And when they're here, I don't expect them to register electronically, turn around and come out. We do not really expect this as the legislators of this bill, because it would indeed be a nuance of logic and the intention of this law. And just to say, you were talking about not accepting a proposal from the MPs, an opposition from the ruling majority. As a proposer, as part of the ruling majority, we accepted the proposals that came from the SDP's ranks on the Constitutional Committee regarding the change of even the key part of the presence of the MPs every day when the Croatian Parliament is sitting just looking for the broad consensus in the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36618	Representative Milorad Batinic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36619	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Podolnjak, you said that logic, i.e. the intensity to improve not only the reputation of the Parliament, but also to in some way improve citizens' trust. But taught by experience and old wisdom, so it doesn't matter how long you've been doing something but what you've done. And as my colleague Pernar said, the quality of the work cannot be seen, valorized by the number of MPs, by the amount of debates, but by the laws passed by the majority of the assembly. Now, unfortunately, you can't prescribe it by law, you can't prescribe it by the Rules of Procedure. But I can also agree with colleagues who are here, I was in my debate on behalf of the club talking about the quality of Parliament's work. I don't know how you got this draft agenda a few days earlier,... Yeah, electronically, but I got it electronically yesterday night. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I don't know, maybe you have some privileged position, I don't. And I certainly cannot agree with you that the way the Parliament works is supposed to work is not by law but by the Rules of Procedure. And I suggest you re-wipe the articles of the law or accept the amendments that will be sent, regulate the parliamentary mandate three plus three, six plus six, or whatever it is. You solve these things to the Rules of Procedure because these things are the place in the Rules of Procedure, not the law. Because in this way I will repeat once again derogate this House, the law, the Parliament deals with marginal matters of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Whether or not the MP will log in, how many times he'll argue and stuff like that. It's about content.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36620	Replication response by representative Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36621	Dear fellow MPs present in the Croatian Parliament as far as I know from the public is not a marginal issue for the public. In fact, very often through the media citizens were familiar with how many MPs do not actually come automatically do not work in the Croatian Parliament. So don't come to work. For the ordinary citizen who follows the Croatian Parliament it is coming to the workplace. Because the representative in the Croatian Parliament primarily identifies with the arrival of the Assembly as a workplace at least in the days when the Croatian Parliament is sitting. And if we know that it is not every day of the week and that there are days in the week when the Croatian Parliament does not meet it leaves enough opportunities for each representative to devote those days to his activities in his town, in the municipality, within the other activities he has. Any representative can spare some of those days for that. But the days when the Croatian Parliament is sitting it is three or maybe four days a week the citizens identify it with our arrival at the workplace. And if we do not come here, they think that we are unjustly left behind, that it is not tolerated to them when they do not come, that no employer will tolerate them. We ourselves have to prescribe it. We don't have an employer above us. As a legislator, we must make this our own way since MPs do not come under the rules of business. And unfortunately The Rules of Procedure cannot sanction the lack of access to certain financial pensions. [[The President's incursion: Time.]] The law can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36622	Thank you. Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36623	Thank you very much. Comrade Podolnjak, I just want you to explain to me this section relating to article 3 of the bill, which concerns these unwarranted vote-related absences. What is considered a vote? Because we have the experience of all mandates, including the fact that sometimes we have an extraordinary vote on Wednesdays, Thursdays, we want to put the agenda item on the plenary session. Then, as most of us, we have to engage and allow ourselves at some point, i.e. have a quorum that may be included in the agenda. Or this only applies to a vote that's official on Fridays, so let's just talk about the debated agenda points. Because if we do this first and we think it's a vote, we, say, have created a big problem for the opposition. And I think they have some rights and thoughts, even about those laws that the government wants to push urgently into the process. Whether this article means voting, any vote when we engage electronically and create a majority so that we can vote on both the agenda and the urgency and the inclusion of some points that need urgent discussion or it is just voting on Fridays that we have to do, of course, everyone on our part as well as he thinks it is best for the party and for his club. And it is my personal opinion that it is good, that the conditions of working as a parliamentary representative are appropriate to prevent all that is written in this law. Because as long as we don't solve it, we can have perfect laws, but unfortunately, many MPs today don't have a room, they don't have the working conditions they need, they don't have the ability to take parties, they do it in a bar or somewhere where they can do it at that point. And of course he's not even motivated to come here. And we have to solve it if we can then apply a law like this. Thank you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36624	Thank you. Representative Podolnjak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36625	I'll answer you very briefly. Therefore, there is no longer a speech in this final legislative proposal with the amendments adopted on the matter of the presence of representatives in the days of the vote. So no more vote-related presence. The wording is: "For every unwarranted absence from the Croatian Parliament on the day of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the representative will be reduced by the amount of the representative's fee for official travel in the Republic of Croatia." Therefore, it is a formulation for every day of unwarranted absence when a session of the Croatian Parliament is held. This is now a harmonised text with representatives' clubs and on the basis of the amendment of the Constitution Committee to be adopted. You will receive the final text of the amendment that we submit to the final proposal which will become an integral part of the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36626	I'm setting a break of an hour and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36627	We are starting in the afternoon section with the follow-up of the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the SDSS Club, representative Boris Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36628	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and MPs. This law is important because as Parliament's representatives, we are constantly under public attention, under the light of the public, our work as parliamentary representatives, but under the glass of the public are also our rights prescribed by this law. I spoke in the debate in the first reading that all of us as parliamentary representatives when we came on the day of the constitution we received a little blue book called “The Guide through the Rights of Representatives in the Croatian Assembly” which presented the rights in a clear and reviewed way. These rights that are prescribed are not prescribed for us to be parliamentary representatives of a privileged caste but precisely to ensure the quality of work of us as advocates and to ensure that independence which is essentially a fundamental assumption that a parliamentary representative can work in this House of Commons. Therefore, even when we are discussing our rights should be rational and reasoned, and less populist, it is necessary not to come out of the topic we are discussing and not to use the Assembly speaker as an escalating stage. In the last ten years, the rights of parliamentary deputies have been continuously reduced from salary to pension rights and some other rights, so this bill also goes in this direction, except for the first time, and this is also mentioned in this bill by the punishment of MPs. When this bill comes to an end, we will see two newspapers, the first newspaper is the reduction of the right to pay, so the newspaper is when an MP resigns that he has no right to pay six plus six and if it is a representative who is also a local official. While the second newspaper is punishing MPs for unwarranted absence. I believe that this legislative proposal has been improved in relation to the first reading, and that it is better defined in the content of the law, which is considered a legitimate absence, and it is a good thing that a defined body that will decide on penalties or sanctioning MPs. It is better to be a collegiate body than to be an individual, even if it is the President of the Croatian Parliament. As for this unwarranted absence and the punishment of agents, we have similar practices in other countries, so this is not inventing hot water. However, we still need to ask ourselves what kind of message we send by punishing MPs. We're all talking about how the House's reputation is low, but this bill also comes down to only one message in public, the MPs need to be punished and that's what's wrong. The public already sees us as those who are not in their jobs, and often, through the debate on this law, we send it ourselves. We could perhaps conclude at the end of the debate that we are guilty just because we are representatives, that we should perhaps be punished preventively, even though we all know as agents that our work is not exclusively this assembly. We are parliamentary representatives 24 hours a day and per second to me at all times every place where we express our political position, where we actually act politically in our place then and also in this Parliament and on the street and on the press that we will organize and lobby for our projects in the ministry because we are chosen by citizens and paid to implement the policy for which the citizens have chosen us. We also all know that we can't discuss it, and it wouldn't be good if we were all discussing all the issues. The amount of debate does not mean quality. We saw that when it was debated about Lex Agror a dozen days ago what it looked like. This law should find a measure between sanctioning unwarranted absence and preserving some of the good parliamentary customs that we have crystallised through our parliamentary practice. Whether we will succeed, whether this law will succeed, it could in fact show only time, so if the law is passed through its application whether that goal has been achieved. However, I personally believe that this law will not contribute to the presence of parliamentary representatives in the assembly. I don't think it will contribute to the quality of the discussion of the laws or the work of the Croatian Parliament in general. I think that the meaning and message should not be punishment for MPs but for improving democratic culture and practice, and therefore for the work of MPs. I think the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is therefore ahead of the amendments, will contribute more to this, and will contribute to the ethical code before adoption. Because the Rules of Procedure are a document that directly affects the work of MPs, which directly influences and directs our debates, which directly affects the quality of the laws we adopt and thus the quality of life of all our citizens. What will look like the Rules of Procedure is much more important, in my opinion, to the work of Parliamentarians than this law. In any case, I welcome the fact that the proposer has improved the text in relation to first reading as well as the fact that they have shown that they have accepted the amendments made by the Government because I believe that these legal texts have been well improved. I hope that they will accept all the quality proposals that are drawn from this debate so that the law is as good as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36629	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit, Agent Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36630	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I would like to say that a colleague of mine has been well noted by the SDSS that the rights of parliamentary deputies are constantly eroding, or diminishing. However, rights and all other citizens are being reduced, meaning pension cuts, I don't know the age of retirement, penals if they go early, etc., taxes mean continued year-on-year growth. So as Parliamentarians, we now see that we are not as isolated from society as it seems that, in the end, if society fails, so do we, together with them. And why am I saying that? Because I don't think that we should go on this ideological side to reduce the rights of MPs but should not reduce the rights of other citizens. However, this system inevitably leads to parliamentary representatives having to reduce their rights themselves because in society there is great anger to the work of MPs. Now, why is that? The reason is that we, as the Parliament means, is that the majority of what it has chosen is this neoliberal model that leads us to ruin, the neo-oliberal model that leads our entire people essentially to disappear. Yesterday, it was reported that only in three counties were the 8,000 first-graders less registered. And it's obvious that we're all going to fail together. And we from the Parliament and those who are, I don't know, in Osijek-Baranja County. And I call upon this time all representatives of the SDSS to stop serving that system, to get rid of that manipulator who eventually bombed their own country in '99. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36631	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36632	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let me also say my thoughts on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and additions to the law on the rights and duties of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I mean, in my personal opinion, this law sort of resuscitates or tries to resolve the consequences without entering what it is, perhaps, the cause of which these consequences have arisen. And I think he's always at the center of everything and this law, but also many perceptions of a parliamentary representative, who's a parliamentary representative, how he behaves, what he does. We have what the media ultimately shows to the public and we have what we really are and we who know and sit here know what the truth is, which is wrong, which is the difference. It's very easy to become a parliamentary representative, perhaps the perception of citizens. We in each election have somewhere between three and four thousand candidates for 150 seats that appear at a given time. The previous term was less than a year, this one lasts a few months, maybe it will end by the end, some were four years old, until recently it was a rule. And everyone's perception that it's easy to become. But indeed, people sitting here pass the filters of their party, very rarely that someone has become an independent representative. I think in all the mandates so far maybe one, two or several people. So the parties are very important. And I think some of these things that were entered into the law were supposed to be dealt with through party clubs, which is enough and talked about today, so that we might have some different solutions, maybe much more acceptable. The second thing that leads me in my thinking is why already the 3rd term in a row, at the beginning of each term, MPs need to in some way punish themselves, punish their own behaviour, punish some of the privileges that are constantly spoken of, which is very disturbing for Croatian citizens, etc. and is constantly moving away from what we are all always saying here, so this is the highest House, this is chosen by Croatian citizens, we are MPs, etc., but mostly every term started with some kind of punishment. I remember 2011, 2012, the beginning of the suspension of privileged pensions. It is a strong contribution to the Croatian budget, it will no longer be much privileged, etc. We today regrettably, given such a bill as the Constitutional Court has also been shown, we have representatives sitting here with us and have the right to a privileged pension. And you have agents who no longer have that right. So all of a sudden we created two categories of MPs, I don't need and I didn't do it at all, and then I voted yes, let them go. But the question arises why do we leave two categories of parliamentary representatives behind? The following was in the previous term MOST went with such a bill, it remained unsettled, and it welcomed us in this term in a slightly changed form. And from year to year, I say Parliamentarians want to resolve some of their own status and ways of conduct. And we've all heard today that a lot depends on the man himself, personally on his habits, what he wants to do, and then what we do here is either difficult or we don't want to do or maybe we do it the best way we think we do it. And we have this story all the time, and here we are, there's something, everybody else is somewhere else, and everybody's doing something. I think that even here, over the past few months, about thirty MPs have been crystallized in terms of debates as it has been in all terms so far. So, there's always one group, 30 people, 40 people sitting around, working, etc. I think I can talk about that group, because at this point, it's going to look exactly the same as everyone who's not here today and they're not interested in talking about the rights that will apply to them at all. I hate to talk about it, and I've never spoken against the work of Parliamentarians, because I think everyone's got a chance to take it or won't and let the voters judge it. But we have tried many situations especially when we talk about quantity, with no quality that many MPs who have been very active are also in the assembly, etc. Unfortunately, they were gone after that. Why? Because they came into conflict maybe within their own parties and options and just weren't on the list anymore or they got bad seats and they didn't go through anymore and they're gone between us. But it's not that important for this law because I'm saying we're talking about a few newspapers right now. We have a proposal, so if you came here to Parliament as a representative, you've done more than a year, you've got six plus six months of some kind of compensation after you finish your job. If you've been between three months and a year, you've got three plus three. If you've been up to three months, you've got nothing. Rule 6 states: "The elected representatives who intend to resign or put their term of office must inform the President of the Assembly 24 hours before the start of the constitutional session, instead of the elected representatives who resigned or put the term of office in office, are present as their deputies." What did we have in this mandate? We had a few MPs who had their firms or companies to come from, they put their jobs aside, they came here for two weeks. When they went out, they had no right to touch their own company for a year. So we punished these people ourselves. Instead of correctly interpreting the Rules of Procedure and saying that the elected minister is also a parliamentary representative because before the parliamentary representative than the minister, we are introducing replacements, we are creating here a space that began to be created in 2012 when the SDP came and these deputies appeared for a few days. That's the cause. And the consequence is that now we're writing a law to avoid it because it's going to come back to us, and we're not changing the Rules of Procedure. So that's the topic to discuss. What is right and how in this way solves the problem, not settle it by law. Because then we wouldn't have 3+3 or 3. They probably wouldn't have any of them up to three, and then they could talk about those who occasionally appear, so they give a term of office to rest and continue their term of office. The second thing that appears is certainly the right to compensation, the mayor. We heard there are mayors, mayors who were parliamentary representatives, and we're really saying that, so some people here, they carry field experience, they know maybe some things better than everyone else who was here and didn't work in the executive office, and they used a fee of 6+6 after their term of office, even though they were mayors until the end of their term until the local elections. And the state says, we're protecting our budget, and now let him get a job down there and have his own salary as mayoral, mayoral, he doesn't have that right. Once again, we separate the representatives to those who are better and the others who are not exactly like that because they still have one executive function and thus protect the state budget. That doesn't make any sense to me. I think any help, even that little help he made in six months was about 80, 70, or 100,000 kunas was helping some kind of local budget. Regardless of state and local self-government, the state is both the Republic of Croatia and its budget. They showed it to me here as an income, i.e. As savings we're going to show down there as a deficit, the result is zero. Personally, I don't think that might be the happiest solution and that we should have left it the way it's been. As far as the absence is concerned, it's a story for itself. I personally think we've been having a debate here about whether to put that part in the vote. We now see that on every working day in the Assembly when a plenary session is held and that is something that is now agreed on at the level of the Committee on the Constitution. I think we are doing again what will not solve the issue of sitting in the assembly, the issue of debate, the question of the quality of the work of parliamentary deputies because we have heard dozens of examples of how this can be avoided today. So we will enter the sphere given that it is within the law, that parliamentarians themselves will apply for acts or crimes that may arise in one way that may not then be best solved through the law. And we'll all justify having an apology, I don't, I went on a good trip or I didn't because it's in the law now, although I personally feel that it might have to be settled through a Rules of Procedure that we also have to change because that procedure is in progress so that I don't say it at the level of legal solutions. That's my personal opinion. Of course, the proposer's representative will always say that it's agreed and I personally have nothing against it. But I think there are some disadvantages that don't seem logical to me, and then I think we still need to agree to that a little bit more to make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36633	Thank you. Two replicas to your exposure. The first one is Agent Blaženko Boban.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36634	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric. Being a parliamentary representative is indeed an honorary duty and should be an honorary duty, unfortunately, who is to blame today for the perception of both the Assembly and the Parliament and the parliamentary representative in the public on a variety of issues, there are more segments. One of the segments is that you told yourself in a way that we think we're all unemployed, that we're all lazy, that we're all thieves, and then we adapt the laws to it. We can't do that and it's not right. This House, this High House, all there until the 6th convocation of the Croatian Parliament was indeed a house of honor and delicacy. Many parliamentary representatives were indeed honorary citizens of the Republic of Croatia who sat in this House 8. Unfortunately, since the 7th convocation, the 8th and this one now, the constituency benches are filled by people who are not aware that the parliamentary representatives are 24 hours. They fill people who ha, don't pay for trams, get into schools, get chased by the media, demagogues perform, defend what's unprotected and out of line with the law. All of this is what violates the dignity of both these assemblies and the Croatian Parliament and each of us individual parliamentary representatives. Many MPs today in some way also avoid participating in this assembly here, if there are some topics that are not really topics that would be politically bickering and do not feel in them that they are working for the benefit of the Croatian people. So it's all a little bit of a blame for us Parliamentarians and promoters of both this and past laws regarding the work of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36635	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36636	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think that we've got any points for citizens today, given that we're discussing ourselves, and that's why I've said why we start every term with a story about what we still need to take away or as someone said, I think a colleague said that we should start a mandate so we can immediately punish ourselves in advance and solve it for the whole term because I don't see this as a punishment, but in some way, the discipline we're going to do according to the law. I think that for discipline and rules in the Assembly, it is somehow more acceptable for me to have the Rules of Procedure, and also the Ethical Code that follows both is in the process of change. And by this law, we will open up space for what I said earlier, so we are beginning to determine who entered the Assembly and who did not enter the Assembly and how we will deal with it, who has a valid thing or not a valid thing. I think that story has to be done a little bit by me to make it better. Now, parliamentarians are mostly told about themselves and everyone does it the best way and finds ways to like both the public and their voters and some other voters to leave a trail in this House and in their work and everyone does it their way. We, through the last few times, show that we are inclined to enter a space that I would call pulsism, that little pulsism might solve some of our own behavior. I think we have every right to do that, but the topics are resolved through other possibilities, some other acts, and that's not the law. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36637	Thank you. Next replica of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36638	Thank you. Comrade Boric, I fully agree with you and with your finding that we, like some masochists with every new mandate, first thing we do is open the question of discipline or not discipline of members of this honorable House. And then we always bring some restrictions, we know that the more mandates we have, and we've always done it in a way that we've been sending some messages that have finally turned out to be absolute messages of pulsism and haven't reflected the true state of things. So whether or not it comes here, whether or not it is discussed, as my colleague Milosevic has said earlier, nor will this law solve a stronger presence in discussions or the quality of these discussions. There is a people in my area who says, “Whomever you drive to church, that one does not pray to God. ” Therefore, you do not need to force someone to come here to work or tell him that the salary is high that it should be earned neither by the people watching it, nor by our voters assessing it if he himself as a man is a serious politician has no sense and responsibility for it all together. No law or norm can regulate that by restrictions. In addition, I think the logic of things is that relations within the club are governed by the party, that discipline determines the party's way of producing in this House determines the parties, so there is a club president who needs to keep track of whether the club is complete or incomplete, whether it will vote or not, whether it will come to a vote on Friday or not, so that's a matter and that's the kind of policy manifestation of political will and some attitude. So let's not make something out of this that shouldn't be, if the thing has to be done, let's do it as suggested through the instrument of the Rules of Procedure that should, in any case, still be discussed in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36639	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36640	Comrade Horvat, I agree completely. You've been here a second time and you've passed the mandates and I'm already the third term and somehow feels like we're going in the wrong direction no matter how much we're going into legal proposals and trying to settle it by the law. I also remember the times that my colleague Blaženko was talking about earlier, so 5, 6th term when it parked here in Mark's square, when the MPs were fighting for a parking space to get here as soon as possible and they were even here all day, they wouldn't leave because they were going to lose it, but it was decided then by the mayor to move it, etc.. So I personally believe that the good working conditions that we can't say right now are satisfying everyone and in all segments, there are MPs who have space, which are vice presidents or committee presidents, etc., who are somewhat and more pulling because they have to deal with sectoral areas to solve certain things and there are representatives who don't. So we always have one feeling that there aren't equal advocates, even though when we come in, we're all kind of equal there. And here I think that there is space and leadership of the Parliament, we need to start taking care of the conditions of the work of certain representatives, that we have materials, that we have tools with which some things can be solved. Today is the time of technology, there's a lot that can be solved by technology, we've heard some examples. And what worries me, which we heard this morning, means there are already dozens of reasons why he could be wrong, i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So we're already seeing several possibilities that already the MPs themselves are thinking about how to kind of eskicipate it and be there. So we're going through the law into the area so we have to prescribe some kind of punishment for it. Okay, we've had that three diaries a day, so now for every day of the session. Okay, next time. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36641	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, MP Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36642	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. So here I am now looking at colleagues from HDZ and the Most, proposing a law that would as well try to force MPs to attend meetings more often. Here I am asking how many colleagues from the Most who propose such a law today are here in the assembly with us in the debate? One, one, one. Isn't that the hypocritical gentlemen of the Most. But even more strangely, when a HDZ counterpart opposes it, Mr. Boric also argues why he is against it, and in the end he will vote in favour of their proposal, along with those hypocrites from the MostST because it is such an agreement. And this whole debate is essentially one farce in the service of an election campaign that the citizens will have absolutely nothing of. If you had changed the Executive Act, if you had raised the minimum wage, that you had changed the CNB Act, that you had abolished the currency clause, that you had introduced vignettes and cheaped your highways, or no one would have asked us whether we were coming to work or not. But what? In Parliament, bad laws are being passed, our citizens are their victims. We have a situation where for Agrokor, for this situation within two days, three have written a new law and for the citizens, for the citizens who fail for them nothing seems to be done for years. And we have an executive law that is unique in Europe, which allows public notaries to carry out the executions instead of the courts. None of it MOST did, but in the manner of the great demagogue, like we're going to the MPs, we're going as agents to make them come here. So what are you gentlemen going to accomplish at the Most? I don't know if you know this, but the person most eligible for a word in this House's term is Ivan Pernar, my little one, over 400 times in this assembly. Your colleague, Mr. Most, the president of the Most, Bozo Petrov, answered straight 0 times for a word, did not participate in any debate. And even if you fill up here with 151 people, you'll find yourself in a situation where 95% of them have nothing to say, they'll just keep quiet. It's sad things, gentlemen. And that policy of yours essentially comes down to the idea that something is changing and citizens are living from day to day worse and worse. You were talking about reform. And what kind of reforms? Do you think the citizens expected real estate tax from you? Oh, no, no, you didn't tell them in the election campaign, gentlemen, when we came from MOST to power, we're going to get you a real estate tax. No, you said we'd raise the minimum wage to 3,000 kuna, you said we'd introduce the vignettes to the freeways, we'd raise the standard of living. Who, gentlemen and ladies? The number of blockeds is record, the birth rate is also record low. The country is leaving, you're talking about economic growth. What economic growth? You have a mass of state-owned companies that are failing. In Zveč's workers, they don't receive their salary for two months, in Borov, I guess, too, two or three months. You have more examples, you have more examples. We found ourselves in a situation where there's no one left to work in the summer season. Why isn't there any work to do? 'Cause all the young people are running out of the country. So are you aware of what it means to be a demographic loss of eight thousand first-graders in only three counties? In the year, it means that last year in Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijem and Sisak-Moslavina, 8,000 children are less enrolled. What have you ladies and gentlemen done to make those words? Nothing. And what use of your reforms, then? You're reformed. What's that? Did the reform make you a law that protects Agrokor, a corporation from execution and its suppliers don't? And then what? You're offering them a proposal not to charge the regress bonds until May 31st. Oh, yeah, that's nice. And what about the May 21st and June 1st elections? What's going on? They're running errands on suppliers. What you're doing, it's all ladies and gentlemen, I'd call, you know how? It's a dead man's paint job. Croatia is simply like a dead man's country in a coffin. And you instead of trying to change it, trying to bring this dead guy back to life, you make him up and you convince everyone everything's cool and everything's gonna be okay. And like that Baron Munchausen or Count Podkin you assure the whole country that your economic policy is correct, that the economy is growing etc. So how does it grow? How does the ladies and gentlemen of the Most grow? You want me to tell you how it grows? He's growing on credit. The boss has raised 50 billion kuna loans that he doesn't repay and then you've been talking for years growing, growing economic growth GDP 1.2%. Yeah, but what about when the loans come in? Then what? What then, ladies and gentlemen of the Most? Who's gonna pay it back? The entire pyramid is collapsing. You're talking to us about responsibility, protecting Minister Maric. You're protecting a minister who naively claims he didn't know anything. So how crazy is it that he didn't know anything? He says Governor Vujcic, he says everyone knew. They knew both bankers and factors and suppliers and in Agrokor the top knew. And he was at the top of the Agrocora. He claims he didn't know. Cats used to work big there. You're still protecting him. And why are you protecting him? Why will you vote? And here's what's happening to you. Let's say that you at the hearing, make 151 MPs come and they make a million and one argument against Minister Maric, you will again, as for Barisic, raise your hand against his shift. So what? What's the point of this debate? You MOST gentlemen, HDZ, and unfortunately, SDP are just one I would call it the voting machine. Voting machine, I call you handlifters and quorum keepers. That's your role here. And since the debate and the "R" except when you say that Bull, your colleague says, "I'm not going to be the boss to save him, I'm not going to raise you by that law hand." Well, then, raise your hand. Yeah, it's not a credible policy. Like the HDZ gentlemen. He says Mr. Plenkovic will stop the execution of the only real estate. And here's what the lady was dissipated yesterday for 13,000 kuna. We're back in Varazdin tomorrow, Mr. Podolnjak. Yes, the family flies to a street that has lived in their apartment for decades because the issue of household law has not been resolved. Next week, another raid in Bednja, Zagrebačka banka, a flood of dejection. Who cares about you? What law did you refer to in the procedure to resolve it? Nothing at all. And then in one hohstappler's manner, you say you're a Pernar clown and a circus boy. That's what all the media repeats to you. You are Pernar unserious or when he said what Hebrang said was the biggest problem in the Croatian Assembly that some come in tennis. Well, ladies and gentlemen, does a suit make a man? Am I a better man if I'm in a suit than I would be in a shirt? So who brought us to ruin. People in working vans, torn shirts or people in suits. It's a sad state of consciousness, and in the end, if you hadn't carried me out of Parliament that day, you'd still be suffocating the debate. You're talking here like you want the width of the debate on this. What a width of debate when you've already made your decisions in advance, when this is just a formality. Here I am sorry for the Croatian people who must observe this farce and this circus and I would call the game. And you know why the game? Because its result has been predetermined and this result is that banks win, that the people lose, that the state will be privatised to the last square. You ladies and gentlemen don't do anything to stop it. You're in favour of borrowing the land. This year 45 billion kunas will be in debt, you voted for it. You will vote in favour of privatising state property. I don't know if you remember, so you made phone calls on the phone sessions to sell out state property. Have you forgotten that? And now here's what you're saying to us, here's what we're going to do to reduce what I don't know to the MPs? You didn't do anything, gentlemen, nothing. You may be ashamed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36643	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. First replica representative Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36644	Dear Madam Vice President, colleague Pernar. You've brought your stats forward in this House of Commons. And if you said you spoke over 400 times and we appreciate it. But I would expect you to thank us at the Most for not reminding you that we at the Most Club of Representatives in the previous Assembly were not consistent with sanctioning the political responsibility of the then Deputy Prime Minister. That we were not consistent and at the cost of stopping our term of office. And that we voted in favour of disbanding the Croatian Parliament, early disbanding, resulting in the elections in which you were elected. You wouldn't have become a parliamentary representative and you wouldn't have had a chance to speak here if we hadn't been politically consistent at the cost of losing our own parliamentary term. And I'd expect you to at least respect that. You don't have to praise us, but at least respect the fact that we have been so politically responsible that we have left our mandate to the citizens in order for you to get a chance to speak here as a parliamentary representative. If that mandate hadn't been interrupted by the early elections, you might be able to speak somewhere in St. Mark outside or elsewhere or in Hyde Park, but you wouldn't be here. And at least from that point of view You should respect what we've done as a politically consistent club of representatives. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36645	Replication response, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36646	Mr. Podolnjak, tell the Croatian public if you've knocked down Karamark to save yourself or because you're a hard man. I think the reason why you moved out of Karamark's chair wasn't because you were a superior moral person, and here's why, because you defended this same Karamark systematically until the moment you didn't see that the situation went beyond control, that the whole people turned against him and that your rating was collapsing. And you destroyed him to save yourself. But one thing I will tell you, the problem in Croatia is not Tomislav Karamarko, the problem is a credit system with a central bank as a currency exchange, with a quasi fixed rate that maintains the amount of constant money in circulation, by constantly pumping external debt. That's problem number one, monetary policy, high taxes. What did we do to get rid of it? Nothing at all. I wish Tomislav Karamarko was the only bug in the country. Okay. He's moving away and the problems should be solved, however they're not. And what the credit system does systematically is sacrifice its puppets, the people who served it. He liquidated Milanovic, liquidated Sanader, Jadranka Kosor, etc. As Plenkovic will. Do you think Plenkovic will welcome a better fate than his predecessors as prime minister? Everyone who sat in that chair was eventually politically liquidated in the same way that Todorovic will be media. So until yesterday, everyone was kneeling in front of him and licking his ass, and today, these same media...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36647	Comrade Pernar, please choose a word in the Croatian Parliament, please. What you said is not appropriate to this place, so please take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36648	Dear President, I'll use a different term. The media licked Mr. Ivica Todorovic's butt. They were licking up on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36649	...we move on to the next line, MP Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36650	Comrade Pernar, you have devoted most of the debate to the banks, one part of the MPs, and here I am reading the amendment of the Living Wall Club if you are interested, so you have given your destiny through this amendment to the President of the Parliament to Mr. Bozi Petrov and ask for his permission for any absence from the assembly, if I read it well. It means any event, economic, scientific, cultural, etc. So we're talking about the same problem. I didn't say I was against the law, but I was talking about maybe Article 6a or 3 of this law should maybe model a little bit or adjust it through the Rules of Procedure. The same thing you did in the Living Wall and suggested the amendment, and that's why I raised my hand to correct what you said I was against. I'm not against the law, let's pass this law because it's good for one other area that's been disputed so far, and that's three plus three, six, etc. in addition to some other amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, legislation and the Government's amendment. And the Living Wall Club has given an amendment where all of its freedom that it has always advocated has been given into the hands of the President of the Parliament, the president of the Most, who you are now attacking as the Living Wall and what they are doing. They've made the law, they've proposed and we're discussing it. The law on executions, you did not propose as a Live Wall club, you proposed the Health Protection Act, there is it on the agenda, but on the performances, on the public notaries you did not suggest this although all discussions were more or less on the subject of performance and on the subject of what you think you should do as a legitimate candidate for both the mayor and parliamentary representative elected, etc. And to all the others who propose a law that you constantly judge, you say that it's wrong or that it's always the wrong topics that you don't want to talk about, even though you always have a nice discussion about each and try to be present I think you should follow your own club. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Here's what I wanted to say because it's written like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36651	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36652	Mr. Boric, you have now said an interesting thought, and it is as if we from the Living Wall are not constructive or that we are that things change, etc. I remember I personally gave the amendment not to raise the VAT to the hospitality of 25%, you refused that amendment. Not only my amendment, Mr. Boric, to the budget, but your colleagues from the SDP have been thinking the same way as you do, you suggest, and they have given you 250 other amendments. How many of them did you refuse? All the way to one, sir. I'll fight with automation. And now what I could, I could have written a thousand amendments, a thousand concrete proposals would have ended up in a trash bin just like the amendments that the SDP handed over to you. There were concrete normal proposals in there. Here's another example, my colleague Sincic, in his previous session of the Parliament, handed over the parliamentary procedure of amending the executive law to protect the only real estate from the performance and to stop the secret mirage, then you didn't even want to put it on the agenda. We can get that proposal out of the archives right now and get it done, and what's going to happen? You know what's gonna happen? It will come to the bottom of the agenda, or it will never come to the agenda, because it will put the chair of the other agenda points as priorities. And we have seen that in this Assembly, the agenda points do not come to debate in order of which they are given, but the chairman determines. And you will see in the end that you have a bill of health, so you will reject it and what. We didn't write it because we believed in you. And we gave more I'll tell you later. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36653	Thank you. We move on to the next individual debate, representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36654	Thank you. Our colleagues and colleagues, we are witnessing that the reputation of the Croatian Parliament is not particularly high. Today, we are also discussing amendments to the laws which, according to at least the reasons of the proposal, need to restore the dignity of the Croatian Assembly and MPs and, of course, I am imitating this motive and justified efforts. Namely, this situation is not so... This Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, globally, and even in the world's most developed democracies, debated the crisis of representative democracy. Because the fact that power is increasingly taking over from the peoples of elected deputies and the true power of both of them is increasingly taking over from each other often, very difficult control centres of power that are in the sphere of corporate, financial, private or multilateral institutions, military industrial complex in developed countries of the world, etc. That neither we are exempt, so the processes in this House will testify. So here we go back to forming power here in the Croatian Parliament. We witnessed how some of our fellow MPs, as their own political defeat, experienced the fact that they were not elected to executive power. But is there a more honorable duty than to be elected representative directly from the voters, from our people? I believe that the reason in this fact, therefore in this difference is not only in some called privileges and the fact that executive power has some type privileges whatever the greater salary of the driver, secretaries of the office etc. I can say that with full credibility because I was in both roles. In fact, this fact stems from one knowledge, one awareness that we, as elected representatives, are increasingly having an impact on the creation of social processes in our country and, as I said, this is the case in other countries of the world. Now let me go back a little closer to the rate of this thing. So I don't dispute the positive motive of the legislator of this law but I still doubt whether this is the right way. I think the right answer is responsibility. So responsibility to the voters who chose me, responsibility to our duties. Shouldn't this home therefore be a set of socially responsible persons whose position is qualified by several of the most positive qualities. In addition to being willing to work for the common good, willingness to expose itself to risk and to the public court, in addition to the fact that we must also have certain qualities in terms of education, intelligence, conceptualisation, etc. etc. at least at the average population level. So all these things should actually be what pleases us here in the Parliament. And we can't expect to return the dignity to the assembly unless we take care of our own dignity. And we are actually witnessing that sometimes by our presence in Parliament, by our discussions, by our replicas, by our conduct in the Parliament, we are doing more harm to the integrity of the Parliament than to our occasional absence from the Parliament, we must also be aware of that. So in addition, I would ask myself whether or not the integrity of this House contributes to the debate and replicas of our versatile colleagues, some of the kind of multigenics that today are willing to talk about the Executive Law. Afterwards on factoring, afterwards on curriculal reform, on unsatisfactory hydrocarbons, alkenes, alkines, alcans, afterwards on health reform. So these are all things that we really need to take care of. And that's why I'm not sure this is the best way to get back to the Croatian Assembly. Furthermore, let me not be resented by media representatives who may be following this and perhaps not. The question of how much their superficial, therefore, their relationship to the Parliament actually contributes to the erosion of the integrity of this House. ... were aware here, the debate and replica in the Parliament and the sentences, that and that representative bought this replica with so many minutes in the central journal tonight. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because look, if we look at the basis of what the news is, your impact to say so to the media, written and electronic, we'll see that these are the most common monitoring of Twitter or Facebook profiles, some of our colleagues, some of the relevant, some of the less relevant, and so it's less deepening in the essence of what we do and what we're discussing. Furthermore, to return to the basic word that restores the integrity of this House is responsibility, responsibility to my own dignity, responsibility to the integrity of this institution. I spent most of my working life as an orthopedic surgeon. It never happened if I did some major surgery in the morning that I didn't come to the hospital to see that patient again. And he didn't make me do any regulation, the Rules of Procedure, and he didn't force me to do that. So that's the thing that we have to do, and when we act on this function that we have to take care of. And now, at the end or at the end of this debate, I'm going to trouble one thing that probably most of you here aren't focused even when we're discussing this law. I live over 500 km from this assembly, so I'm a university professor and a doctor at the end of my career. I left my private office in which I invested considerable resources to my younger colleagues because I can't behave. I see a couple of colleges at the University of Mostar and, of course, a very difficult pain and so far I have managed to connect it with my work of the Croatian Parliament. Am I equal to my colleague from Zagreb or who lives near Zagreb who is able to come, make a visit, come here to join the assembly, return to the department, examine patients, perform surgery and return here again this afternoon, whether to vote or to debate? We're not even. Besides me, there are a lot of people who live so far away, a little further, a little less away, so that's all the things we have to take care of. Whether this will lead to a negative selection of personnel, so from the periphery and favor people here who live in the center or near the center. Someone can ask why you came to the Parliament? Yes, I came to the Parliament today when I came to the end of my medical and academic career, but I didn't come 15 years ago and I could run for office, and then I had political support because I took important political positions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's also a matter that we have to take care of. And in the end, I'm not sure that disciplinary responsibility, especially through this law, can bring back both discipline and dignity to this House. Look, I chaired Parliament for four years where I interrupted the debate every time the president found there was no quorum in the assembly. I have suggested in business proposals that we introduce that fact, but we cannot introduce it in such a way as to say the fashion of Parliament's work. Why? We would then have to introduce many other changes, discuss agency reports on boards, reduce replicas, actually organise sessions I don't know about every other week, etc. etc. However, this is what could actually hold this assembly as much as full and give to our voters, our people, our citizens, to the public, so one other picture of the Parliament. Someone also mentioned here that our role model for this law was Bundestag. Okay. In Bundestag, for example, to form a club requires at least 5% of the number of representatives elected in Bundestag. That would be about 7 to 8 club-forming advocates here, so there would be fewer breaks, there would be fewer replicas, there would be fewer debates, etc. etc. Therefore, these are all things either in Bundestag to be in one club, members of the club should not be in opposition not only to Bundestag, but not even to the provincial, or state-level, German federal states. So let's look, if we're going to the Bundestag then we actually have more examples of how we can follow, so Bundestag. Therefore, I believe that a lot of debates here that were very well-intentioned should be respected, so if necessary, then another reading goes with this law to achieve the goal we need. But the Rules of Procedure, I think, is a much more important thing, where we can therefore contribute both to the dignity and discipline, or to respect the obligations of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36655	Thank you. We have one replica, Agent Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36656	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I've been listening very carefully to you, and I'd just like to look back on that part of your discussion where you were talking about responsibility. It seems to me there's a measure amongst other things. You were talking about the crisis of representative democracy associated with, which, of course, did not bypass us in connection with the fall of reputation, the fall of dignity which, after you mentioned the word responsibility, called me a question which means professionally doing your job? By coming to the Parliament, all of us who have opted for this job, and we have passed the selection, or the competition for the job of the people, have opted for the professional performance of this duty. Now, we can ask ourselves what it means to do professionally. This job is a little more specific than someone else, but it's a job. Maybe you should think about it. I think there's a little bit of a point here. What's the form here, what's the content. We've come down to the form we count statistics as we speak, how much we step forward. The content of what we're saying, we've ignored it and that statistics doesn't follow. I get the impression that we've been balancing and wandering all the time in some kind of impediment on one side between pulsism and desire to be very fond of someone and on the other side of responsible argument-based speech. All this is expensive with a media picture with all due respect to the media. The perception of citizens is supported by the media. I personally don't remember the last time I saw in the media a display of an articulated parliamentary debate, and there were no scandals, carry-overs, and so forth. Thank you. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36657	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36658	Of course we totally agree, so some of us have chosen to carry out this duty professionally, others have not professionalized. But I also believe that with the same, so to speak of responsibility they approach and should approach, so to carry out this duty. What we should put an emphasis on, in fact, is the fact that the quality of our work and the quality of this House should not be measured by the number of announcements for debates, nor by replicas, but by what is said here. Look, I've been, I say, a long time and the Minister of Health and the consultant of the World Bank as... an expert on health reform projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But believe me, I wouldn't dare without a good preparation here today to talk about health reform in Croatia because I don't know enough problems. But about some other things, so I dare say, and today I've called to say some things that concern me and as a representative who's been elected and who lives, say, over 500 kilometers from this assembly. But also to point to some examples from my own experience. So I think we can come up with a debate in, not an empty one, but at least in a half-empty assembly, so with a quorum here in the Parliament. But then we must make significant changes to the Rules of Procedure. And as for responsibility, of course, I think very rarely which of us has this nat average ability to do more to say executive and legislative functions parallelly. In that case, of course, we would have to separate the principal, mayoral functions, functions in the Parliament, and then we could expect people to be there, in those days, but I say in a reduced number of plenary sessions during the month to be there and to maintain quorum during the whole debate not only vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36659	Thank you. We're moving on to the next individual debate, Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36660	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Whatever needs to be done, we have obviously come to this stage in order for people to gain additional confidence in that the representatives are working and we are where we are and we are not going to explore what it is and who is more, who has contributed less, I am willing to do everything in order to raise citizens or so that citizens' confidence in Parliament's dignity and the work of parliamentary representatives and their representatives is increased and that maybe certain things that have been formally convinced them that we are serious, even though it may be excessive when seen from the perspective that each of us is in the interest of citizens seeing what we are doing, to hear what we are saying, because the next time they will have the opportunity to choose us or not to choose us, especially because what they can now and personally decide for whom to vote. So I am not in principle burdened by this law in such a way that it will change my work by now and in the future it will be identical to this law or not be passed this law. But if it will generally increase citizens' confidence in the Croatian Parliament, I will support it. And as I get the impression that this is the intensity of all of us and that there is good will and such a proposal, I am inclined to support it, and I will support it with certain changes that are proposed and that we also see that the promoter wants to accept, for example, that, with the activities defined by the assembly, they define the activities of the club because there is a certain activity defined by the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and it is not good that they are left out of the text of the law. And on that side, I see here an amendment from fellow Stazic and colleagues of the coat of arms that goes in that direction. Although there are a lot of broad definitions here and when you look at this article 3 and it turns out almost everything can be covered, you may need to start from something, follow it to see how it develops, how much it will give effect to the work of the Croatian Parliament, and then possibly in the future if something needs to be changed, we can change and change. But that something should be done and I am even inclined to go after it, but here my colleagues assure me that it is impossible to apply it on the salary, which is why not apply on the salary, not on the flat, but on the salary and why limit it to 1,500 kuna if we have 15 days a month when this way is participated in the Croatian Parliament. It can be 15 times 150 so someone can stay and lose more than half their salary. So on this side we can also make more sanctions for those who unjustly do not attend the meetings of the Croatian Parliament. And I'd like to say okay. Obviously this was not possible now, but in the future if the law will change let it go in that direction because there is no excuse for someone who cannot justify his not attending the meetings of the Croatian Parliament, where people have chosen us and for what we have been paid for, and of which ultimately all the MPs in this House live. So that's where they earn their wages, and they have to treat their jobs in a responsible way. So I would like that after we adopt this law, after which we see how it has come to life that in the future if there is any need to modify it and even in one I would say maybe a stricter way than what it is now. As for the very quality of the debate and the quantity of the debate, it is neither law nor anything that we can regulate, and we must be aware that we are representatives of the cross-section of society and that it may seem to someone something ridiculous and circusing and inappropriate to the Parliament, but one part of the people choose and want such representatives, and we must also respect it. And you don't need to look at certain things that someone's trying to point out in some special, specific way like something negative. If the citizens don't want a representative like that, they won't pick him. It is nothing special for Croatia, such approaches and ways of communication with citizens has in other more developed countries, as far as democracy is concerned than Croatia with a greater tradition. Take a look at the few EU countries to Italy, France, England, and you'll see a lot of unusual ways of communicating with representatives than in Croatia, and what we do here in the assembly, so I don't see anyone out there appeal and trying to make it impossible for these people to discuss in this way by saying that they protect dignity, that every personality must be the same to every citizen who represents citizens in the Parliament. As our former President of the Croatian Parliament Luka Bebić said, it was one of his favorite sayings, let a hundred worlds bloom a thousand pardons, even a thousand flowers. [[Intruder: a thousand.]] It is democracy and on this side I am particularly nostalgic as he led these sessions because he was one of the most tolerated and most I would say better presidents of the Croatian Parliament at least in these terms as I remember it, unfortunately in the last half of the year we have seen very negative examples as regards the conduct of the session itself. So here's to fellow MOST that they don't think that whatever the position suggests, the opposition won't accept. We will accept this, of course from the EU's Government of Harmony, are some other things that have been accepted in the Croatian Parliament if we have certain laws to which we have committed, but this is one policy initiative and we would love to see on the other hand that the opposition's political initiatives are accepted by the position. So here is, for example, when there are marked conflicts of interest within the government that people in the position do not look to support such opposition initiatives as well. When we see that some things don't seem to be right, when there's a conflict of interest, we try to overcome that story, which is a positional opposition, and that this House finally shows that it can do something without only raising hands, of course we're talking about the position, the opposition when it comes to the government or its proposals. And that's why I'm glad, and I can commend my colleagues at the Most that they've made one of these proposals. There will be proposals from the opposition, for which also colleagues from the Most, we see a positive statement in the media and we expect their support when something is white, then it's white, when something is black then it's black. This should not be clouded by government relations, or by so-called. solid, or not solid partners. Because I see that now the media has started to deal with MOST as an unsolicited partner how you can function. Well, I guess people have a right to their stand, let them go, let them say if Maric is wrong, it's wrong, so don't push them. So on the other hand, on the other hand, the debates that are waiting for us are especially exciting. And I want to see here, I'd say the principle and the state of Most if it wasn't for the Most I'd say from a stick of sticks, from wood that's about to crack, but that's one solid stone bridge. And these discussions are waiting for us for weeks and months to come, and then we will see, in essence, whether we can count on such cooperation and on the position of Parliament as we would all like it to be, as everyone would like it to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36661	Thank you. Next debate, individual agent Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36662	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would say that this amendment to the law is actually a alignment of the text of the law with the name of the law. The law is called the Law on the Obligations and Rights of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, obligations and duties or rights and duties as already and that so far, only rights and very few duties have been in the law. Come on, now we've added one duty to have to come to the sessions, not bad. Since the law has been corrected in relation to the first reading, that some of the proposals that I personally made in the debate have been accepted, we are very likely to vote for it, or that is already the representative of our club and I call on the promoter to consider further if there are amendments that have been tabled to see if the law can be further corrected. I think that in this law, when we look globally, there are two or three other things that may need to be regulated, but also in the discussions that we have conducted on boards, and this may be possible for each other to solve for the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. One of them is certainly the right to maternity leave of MPs or representatives who should be separated from the classical rest of the mandate. Therefore, the possibility of replacements should also be allowed for a shorter period of 6 months due to the maternity leave of representatives or representatives. So I don't think it's so much of an intervention in the law that it would show one willingness to meet those officials or officials who are therefore using that right to be one, so one gesture that would be good, that they didn't have to come and hold a quorum or something like that. Secondly, as far as immunity is concerned, there are three kinds of immunitys that MPs have. One is for prosecution, the other is, two types of pardon, and the other is for spoken word in the Croatian Parliament. At this point, it seems to me that the interpretation of the constitutional provision is such that local self-government council members are more protected than MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I believe that the constitutional norm should not be interpreted as being more protected than the MPs are protected from the spoken word in the Croatian Parliament and from criminal but also from civil litigation or damages. And that the Law on Obligations and Rights should define it either in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in the same way as that, as defined in the Law on Local Self-Government for Councilors, or define constitutional interpretation by interpreting that the penalty for spoken word in the Croatian Assembly also refers to the civil case for damages. It's very important for freedom of speech. Therefore, if anyone has a great desire to repeat what he said in the assembly, let him be courageous, and let him go out to Mark’s square outside of the Parliament, and let him say so, and then the immunity of that sort does not protect him. But the question, of course, is what will be the credibility of such a representative who dares to say something in the hall and dares not say it outside. Then he's aware he's doing damage. It will therefore be a somewhat difficult situation for him in political debates. The issue of this law is also a question of a kind of trust in the institutions. So, regardless of what the Croatian Parliament always in the polls when you ask citizens to evaluate some grade work and then the President so much, the Government so, the Parliament so much, the Parliament always gets the smallest score. Of course, I'm aware of what's happening because voters judge low grades because of others. Our voters think we're doing a good job, but the HDZ guys, they're the bad ones, and then the Parliament's bad ones. Let's say, I'm sure that, now Mr. Boris has paid attention that our voters misjudge the parliament for it and perhaps HDZ voters because of several of us others misjudge the Parliament. As far as the government and the president are concerned, they're from one political option, so they get some better grades. So I believe that when we look at the metrics, the Croatian Parliament carried out all of the tasks it needed, that the discussions were generally of a quality but were given more attention to those who were less quality and more lumpy. It's not like I'm completely innocent of it, but I'm trying to be in some kind of normal proportion. It is simply today's reporting that some sound bytes are being sought that would then enter the main information shows. And it's all kind of a picture of the Croatian Parliament. With this law, that picture will certainly not be broken. Will it achieve the same effects as we think it should, whether it will contribute to the greater quality of Parliament's work. I have to admit, I'm sure no one knows that here and no one's sure about that. All I know is that it will increase the arrival of the Parliament, so in the building of the Parliament and then when it comes to the building of the Parliament, it can also be reached in the hall of the Croatian Parliament and that after a long time it will make me whine that card because I have never seen the point in it before. Now that's going to be one added value. Some MPs, of course, are regular without that obligation, and some are not. But the method in the pocket is an effective method, an effective method in general. I am also pleased that the proposal that we made in the first reading was accepted and which was put into place, which was in fact the biggest criticism of the law that the three-day voting order actually wanted to artificially maintain the quorum. We are pleased that this is what the Proposer has announced has changed and accepted, therefore, that in order to increase the presence at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament, this provision extends to all the days when the plenary session is held, and is then proportionally with regard to the number of days in the meeting reduced. Therefore, with and without these amendments to the law, I will continue, I believe, and most, the vast majority of fellow MPs do their duty in the most conscious way and contribute to the improvement of Croatia and, of course, to the increase of confidence in politics, politicians and the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36663	Thank you. We have one replica, Agent Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36664	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, I'm sure the quality of the work won't increase. The presence will increase, there may be an increase in perception that more people are in the assembly, but the quality of work is probably not. And the quantity of work probably doesn't. Let's just say, in law, we could define that every MP who doesn't write one bill gets a two-day reduction per month. If we had written that, we would probably have 150 legal proposals every month in the assembly because MPs would write suggestions. So we have to distinguish the technique from the essence. So this is not a law that will increase the essence, suggestion, ideas, creativity, inspiration, and even soundbytes. So it has nothing to do with this. Everything will remain the same except in the assembly, let's say, instead of now what's so obvious about my approach to counting twenty, twenty-five might be fifty-five. Oh, no? If the MPs want to hang out here and sit, if they don't, they might be in their rooms, and we'll be 25 again. So nothing's going to change on that side. It's the only thing I see useful from this law that people will have a certain sense of commitment from the MPs to attend every day in the assembly and be eventually sanctioned if it doesn't work, because that's how they do their jobs, and that's how they have, I'd say and those certain obligations be on, physically in the place where they work. So, as far as quality is concerned, I'm sure nothing will change. Because it doesn't even cover the law. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36665	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36666	You said quality won't increase, maybe it won't decrease. And besides, if there are more MPs present and listen to me and you, maybe they'll learn something and Mr. Grmoy here now so he doesn't just stay, and then in that sense, he'll increase quality. These ideas, this is actually a topic that you can always ask yourself about why we're not still this, why we're not yet that and you can always find great arguments for and against. However, as MOST colleagues have accepted most of our remarks that we have given them the opportunity to try to increase our trust with one of these laws. It will not be pleasant for a representative who is first punished not for a single journal, but for being a media topic. They will talk about the haughtiness of MPs who, behold, do not come to the Parliament, are ready, so they do not want to do their job. Even sanctions can't get them to do it, etc. So, I think that after all, the MPs will make sure that they are not exactly the ones to whom this punishment will be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36667	Thank you. Finally on behalf of the promoter, MP Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36668	Gentlemen Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to thank you briefly for participating in this debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs. And as my colleague Bauk said well, I think he was the only one to reflect on it. For the first time in this bill, we, in our name and in our text, are adding the really duties of MPs. So far, this law has spoken only of rights and no duty has been indicated. Now we're actually defining it. The fact is that we and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament define the rights and duties of the representatives. And it now states in the Rules of Procedure that the MP has the right and the duty to take part in the meetings of the Parliament, to debate and vote on them, to submit proposals, to participate in working bodies meetings, to debate other rights and duties. Therefore, it is prescribed in Article 14. The Rules of Procedure, however, did not seem to be enough for one part of the MPs to exercise those rights and duties. And for this reason, it was necessary that, in addition to the business provisions, we also prescribe a provision to this final draft of the law. Of course, the Rules of Procedure have no financial sanctions, he prescribes rights and responsibilities but ends up and ends up practically on the moral obligation of the MPs to exercise those rights and responsibilities. The fact in the political sense that we must never interfere with is that our employer are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They gave us this job that we do by choosing us, giving us votes and choosing us in the election. So, in this political sense, citizens are our employer, and that's why citizens expect to see us here in our workplace. This is primarily our workplace, this building, this High House, when we are here in the assembly, when we are on the working bodies of the club of representatives, when we receive guests and citizens and participate in protocol events, but of course at other locations when we are on the official road for the approval of the President of the Croatian Parliament. The fact is that we have often had the opportunity to read about numerous extreme situations that the media particularly highlighted situations that did not support the dignity of the representation function, and precisely because of the lack of certain legal provisions. Unfortunately, there have been cases where MPs have been entitled to a duty fee of just a few days or even one day, and that this has often been said in the media that in a very short time compensation can be made throughout the year, worth more than 100,000 kuna, and this has been particularly potent. And for this reason, we had to amend those provisions and at least try to ease those fees so that MPs with a very short term of office up to three months in the future would not have the right to do so. So those MPs who, in a very short period of time, may have changed the members of the government who had put in place who had temporarily failed to activate their mandate, such situations were very much. Of course, we could not fully resolve the question of compensation after acting as a representative because it is also related to some other laws that are discussed and indicated. The fact is that we have several laws that regulate certain issues that are actually connected and the fact is that in the perspective we must very quickly change the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest that is partly related to this law and to this compensation after the conduct of the mandate. The fact is that the media has often stressed on the basis of records available to them that there have been representatives who have never come to the Croatian Parliament, who for months and months have not come to their jobs and that this has been potentiated and that we have not had any sanction mechanism at least any financial sanctions for those representatives who simply did not experience the Croatian Parliament as their place of work and the fact is that here for the first time we are going in the direction of sanctioning at this point in this legislative proposal through the denial or reduction of the representative's co-chair. Who knows, maybe the next step will be a reduction in the pay, we'll see how this law applies. This is the first step to bring representatives in the Croatian Parliament to their workplace to enter the Croatian Parliament. We expect that they will not only come here to register electronically that they have entered the Croatian Parliament but that it is only the first step to participate more actively in the work of the Parliament here at the plenary session and that we have a much more frequent quorum in the working bodies sessions. When MPs come to the Croatian Parliament to expect it when they have already recorded that they are here to attend a session of the working body and that we will not have so many meetings without quorum in the future. It was our intention to respect as many suggestions and suggestions as possible in the debate and from members of individual clubs of MPs, especially opposition representatives, to make such a final proposal that will fully respect all these suggestions. You have seen our proposal for the last amendment, which we have submitted to respect the amendments of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, which is only complemented by one minor supplement that explains this amendment, but we have accepted the fundamental idea that a representative's arrival is not sanctioned every day when a session of the Assembly is held, which is actually the best possible situation for MPs to be here every day when the session is held. And to say, in the end, that as a club of MPs, we have accepted all the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia by automatically entering the final draft of the law, that we have accepted amendments that are the nomotechnical nature of the Committee on Legislatives, that during the debate today we have received several amendments from other clubs of MPs. Now I am not in a position to plead with them, they will be discussed by the club and during the vote they will also be shown about these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36669	Thank you. A few replicas to your exposure. First agent Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36670	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I would only like a colleague to say one thing to Dolnjak about Mr. Karamark and his destruction as proof of their moral purity reminds me of Minister Maric. Why? Because Minister Maric claims, i.e. that he knew nothing about what was going on in Agrokor. So the same MOST colleagues are being made naive, claiming they didn't know about Tomislav Karamark's past and what the man is doing. And if they had been honest, they would never have collated with him. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36671	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36672	An esteemed colleague did not really have anything to do with this final bill. And when no one draws your attention to that, I have to. There will be a theme and what you're talking about, but we're talking about the rights and duties of MPs, not the topics that really have nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36673	Next replica representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36674	Mr. Podolnjak, you said in your debate that things usually appeared in the media that in some way, I'd say, threw a shadow at the work of MPs, the guy was one day in the Parliament, so he got 6+6 etc. I'd just like to tell you that don't have the illusion that all these changes that you've now made that these changes are going to make someone sign up and say good-bye, and that now all of a sudden they're going to jump an MP's or Parliament's rating. That's not gonna happen. No one even remembers that we've abolished parliamentary pensions after one term or two years. So no one remembers that, but the Parliament can only lift its dignity in the way of content work and the suggestions from it that arise. That's what we need certain preconditions for. And you, like all of us, will agree that the Parliament unfortunately does not have the capacity that some other parliaments have to come out of the law, so that MPs can in some way use all the potential potential that some other representatives in some other countries, Germany, Austria, Italy, and Hungary, the Czech Republic, with which we can compare, which we would have there. So don't have the illusion that because you've now defined something that citizens will automatically approve it and that tomorrow's Parliament rating will jump because it won't. So even this debate will probably be welcomed in a way that negative people experience rather than positive. We need essential, qualitative changes with the content that comes out of the House in order for people to experience it eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36675	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36676	I thank you for the replica and of course this is not a revolutionary change but we have repeatedly stressed that this is the first step but in the right direction. In a good direction to restore citizens' trust to react to what citizens tell us, what they tell us through both the media and the public and when they write their comments. And the fact is that this may not be what we would like as much as possible, but definitely in all these provisions that we propose are good things, that the MPs are as much back in this Croatian Parliament as possible, in their workplace, that the public can monitor it, and that it is a step in the right direction. I believe that, we will see how the law will be implemented, whether any further changes and additions will be necessary. But I think it is mostly, the taste of these discussions that it is necessary to do something to strengthen the dignity and reputation of the Croatian Assembly by making a contribution to it as representatives in a way that we are here, to be at our workplace and to discuss, to decide, to participate in the working bodies, that is why citizens chose us and that is why they actually recognize us here and now I believe when many watch this transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36677	Thank you. The next replica is representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36678	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Podolnjak, I have a very specific question. So you said that our employer is basically the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who choose us, and in order for them to choose us, we have to represent them, we have to support them in their wishes, in their struggle. And now you know what I'm interested in? Here, imagine this proposal of yours, so it would sanction MPs who do not attend the vote. And now imagine that the Split-Dalmatia County Assembly is held at the time of the vote in the Croatian Parliament and that, in that assembly, let's say the HDZ takes away their greatest treasure and gold from the people of Bol in Brac, means the Golden War beach as it was yesterday. And now, let's say, colleague Bauk, who is fighting with HDZ there to keep it from the citizens of Brač, is likely to get a reasonable absence since he is a member of the county assembly. And would counterpart Miro Bulj, who came to support the citizens and is standing in front and protesting against HDZ, would his absence from the House of Votes be justified or unwarranted, since this is not an official road, should the President of the Parliament approve him to go down there to fight for those citizens who chose him and to fight HDZ who sold out the goods of Croatian citizens? Here's what I'd like you to tell me is that this law would solve it and what's there now, whether it's a fight for the citizens or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36679	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36680	You could single out a lot of very different, concrete examples as you have now listed one. And it seemed to me the suggestion of my colleagues, Bauk, to justify the absence of MPs, was to attend the meetings of the representative bodies where the representatives were members. This means that they have more functions and that in this situation they cannot be on both bodies at the same time. And we considered that suggestion, we didn't put it into law. You know why? Because we have assessed that we are elected here as representatives and that here is the priority to be, here in the Croatian Parliament, not in the City Council or the County Assembly. I have to tell you myself, I haven't been to the last two sessions of the City Council of the City of Varazdin which I am a member of, the last two sessions because I was here in the Croatian Parliament. I couldn't have been in two places, but here I had to be as a Croatian representative in the Parliament. So it must have been more important here than a session of the City Council on the same day on Friday when there was a vote in the Croatian Parliament. So, because you were elected here as a representative of the Croatian Parliament. If you choose to be more important to you in the City Council, is it possible for you to have a more important office of councilman in the City Council or the County Assembly, or will you simply give up 150 kuna of that cobbler and you will be in the county assembly. So you're not forbidden by law to be. You're just not gonna get 150 kuna of that journal. I do not see that this is too much of a problem, but for me it is a more important function in the Croatian Parliament, but in a situation that I could not come to the City Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36681	Thank you. Replica representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36682	Thank you. Comrade Podolnjak, I understand your need to send voters now before the local elections some kind of message. But you're getting pretty involved with this last sentence right now. So, are you going to say that the mayor of the city of Osijek has less meaning his function and his presence on the City Council than here in the Parliament? So why did we allow these functions to match systemically? Why did we do that? Secondly, I still think and stand at the point that discipline here reflects my responsibility to my party, to my club and to the president of the club of representatives. Why is there an institution of the club of representatives? The president of the Advocacy Club, rather than making sure that there's a complete composition here when it's right, when people don't do other jobs. We, the little clubs where there are three of us, have to be present at the same time, and here, we have to be present at the ministries, we have to perform some party obligations, and how do we put it all together and be here in front of the public and send a message that we're all here? And I don't think this is good, the intention may be fair, but the technique isn't good. And I think you're finally making us officials out of this. For every absence I've ever done in the field, I've got to get an excuse where I've been, or I've had the flu, maybe from a doctor, so I get an excuse. So don't banalize this serious business without at the same time opening the question of whether we're willing to regulate the behavior of the people who run the agencies, who run public systems, who act like sheriffs, have a higher salary than the president of the state, a greater benefit. And we're distracting the public that we're on duty here, we're 150 sitting here, and the whole problem of this society will be solved if I get that card through the morning at 7 o'clock or 9 o'clock when I get there, and it'll all be settled. And these failures will not be touched, we will let them pass under the radar of our debate today. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36683	Thank you. The answer to the line, so we're closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36684	Thank you. I don't have accurate statistics at this time how many days during the year the Croatian Parliament has a session, but I guess it's not more than half a day over the year. This means that in that second half of the year you can actually perform all these other functions you have spoken about and contacts with other state bodies and voters etc. So here we are this week, Monday and Tuesday were possible, so we can also do these jobs when the Croatian Parliament did not meet. Secondly, you said that by saying that the function, it is difficult to coordinate functions in the representative body and the Croatian Parliament yes. When it comes to function, the executive position in local self-government, so the office of mayors and mayors and at the same time acting as representatives, I have a long-standing professional position, and also politically that this is incompatible, that you cannot be absolutely certain about the level of mayors to conduct such two responsible jobs at the same time. Being a parliamentary representative in the fullest sense of that word and the mayor who has a large range of executive duties. And I've certainly stood up for it many times before the parliamentary career for the incompatibility of these duties, and I publicly advocated it, and it could easily be found in the media. However, there was never a consensus to vote in this House to amend laws that would make the duties of MPs incompatible with MPs and commissioners incompatible. You have one paradoxical unconstitutional opinion that actually the mayors were denied being in the Croatian Parliament [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] But it's not the mayors. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36685	Please! I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36686	The next item is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, Second Reading, P.Z. No. Seven. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. The debate is closed. The club of representatives of HNS and HSU proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion that reads: The final proposal for the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament will be conducted on the third reading. During the debate, the applicant's representative did not agree with this proposal. I am voting on the proposal of the conclusion of the HNS and HSU Club. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that that conclusion has not been reached by a sufficient majority. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, and by representatives of Peđa Grbin and Nenad Stazic. The amendment of the proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists has become an integral part of the final draft law on the basis of Article 202. Rules of Procedure and amendments of the Committee on Legislatives and Amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted by the proposing representative during the debate. I ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the remaining amendments submitted. Agent Robert Podolnjak, come in. The first amendment is from the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36687	The applicant does not accept this amendment for the reason that the text of that amendment has been incorporated in the final draft of the law, so by its own amendment the Committee for the Constitution proposed referred to the supplement in Article 3 of the added Article 6a. paragraph 3. In the final proposal, a complete formulation of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system has been transposed by the fact that in our final proposal, the amendment is accompanied by the addition to the request and the documentation of the MPs confirming his justified absence from the Assembly. But the key text of the Committee on the Constitution, therefore, that for any unwarranted absence from the Croatian Parliament on the day of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, the representative's representative's fee is reduced by the amount of one official travel diary in the Republic of Croatia is accepted and is in the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36688	Would any other member of this committee like to take a word for it? Representative Peja Grbin, Vice-President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36689	Thank you, Mr. President. We have analyzed the amendment of the motions, having in mind and given my argument, I agree with it and I do not think we need to have a special session of the committee and that there is no need to vote on this amendment, and also given that it is a completely identical amendment that I have submitted with my colleague Stazic on the same article, then I am withdrawing the first amendment that my colleague Stazic and I have submitted, and we accept the day of the explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36690	Thank you. Then there's no need to vote because you've withdrawn the amendment. The next amendment is from the Living Wall and Power Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36691	The amendment refers to Article 3... Article 6a in paragraph 3, where the words "from the Croatian Parliament on the day of the Croatian Parliament's vote" are proposed to be changed with the words "from the plenary session or the working body's session". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This amendment cannot be accepted for the reason why we left that formulation out in the final draft of the law. So there is no longer a formula "from the Croatian Parliament on the day of the vote" since we accepted the proposal to watch each day when the Croatian Parliament is sitting. So the word "voting" doesn't exist at all in the final proposal, and therefore the amendment is actually groundless, so we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36692	Would the representative of the motionor of this amendment like to take the floor? Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36693	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. We accept this explanation and do not ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36694	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn by the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, there is no need for a vote. The next amendment was submitted by MP Peđa Grbin and Nenad Stazic. The first amendment, such as Pedja Grbin's representative, said he was withdrawn. The next amendment also submitted by representatives of Peđa Grbin and Nenad Stazic, I would like to ask the proposing's representative to show himself. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36695	The second amendment submitted by the esteemed legislators concerns their proposal in accordance with Article 3 which adds to the law a new Article 6 and in paragraph 4 to add a new subparagraph, which would read: "Obligations to the club of representatives". It is about the addition of the item, which lists the reasons for the legal provision to be considered justified by the absence of representatives from the Croatian Parliament. So this is what MPs suggest as an additional reason for the justified absence. On behalf of the promoters, I must say that the formulation is from the Rules of Procedure, as the MPs have stated, but in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in Article 20, this formulation of the obligations towards the club of representatives is in the section relating to the fact that these obligations will also be considered as the arrival of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. However, this law introduces for the first time a category of justified absence from the Croatian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure don't know that formula. We have incorporated the wording "work in a club of representatives" into the law. The fundamental intensity of this legislative proposal is that the representatives perform their work here in the Croatian Assembly at the plenary session, at the working bodies sessions and at the club of representatives. So, in the space that every club of representatives has at their disposal And in addition to that official trip of representatives outside the Parliament after the approval of the President of the Croatian Parliament [[The President's incursion: Time.]] We think, just let it be very brief, we think that the installation of obligations to the club of representatives as a valid absence would assume that all club presidents should write excuses to representatives for not coming to the Croatian Parliament and that we would actually derivate the fundamental intensity of the law. [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36696	Mr. Proposer, I really need to interrupt you. You've extended half a minute. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Representative Peja Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36697	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would point out that the proposer's representative has not explicitly shown whether or not he accepts this amendment. However, from his explanation, I will interpret that the applicant does not accept this amendment and I will explain why we have submitted it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are prescribed that by coming to the Assembly, the participation of representatives in the work of the working bodies, the travel of MPs under the approval of the President of the Parliament, and the obligation to the club of representatives. If this amendment is not accepted, the law will be incompatible with the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as the honourable representative of the motionor, well knows, falls within the constitutional law of the Republic of Croatia in a broader sense. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament regulates the way of work in the Croatian Parliament and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are arranged to consider the meeting's obligations towards the club of representatives. This means that we will punish the MPs for not coming to the Assembly for something that the Second Act of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament says is considered to be coming to the Parliament. Furthermore, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will remind you of the provision of Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where the democratic multilateral system is one of the fundamental values and the basis for interpreting the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. A democratic multi-party system, which means political parties and, of course, independent representatives. In particular, be careful what kind of situation we're in. We are in a situation that, for example, if I am an envoy of my political party, for example, at a memorial in Jasenovac, so I am acting within the club of MPs, I will not be released from this sanction and I will be punished. But if, at the same time, I do as it's written in this article 6a. The fourth subparagraph of the fourth subparagraph, I now go to some event in my unit of local self-government, for example on the day of the city, will then be tolerated. That is why we do not accept this argument and ask for a vote on our proposal. Thank you. [[Intruder Dolnjak: Not true.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-04-19-0.u36698	You have no right to manifest yourself. You had your time. I ask the esteemed MPs and MPs to vote whether Amendment 2 of the MPs of Peja Grbin and Nenad Stazic are included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. That amendment did not get a sufficient number of votes to be included in the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get involved, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most votes, 76 for, 28 abstentions and 3 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament together with the amendments adopted. Dear MPs and MPs, we will proceed with the session's work. Representative Alexic.
