ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u38846	Mr. Bunjac asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u38847	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAG Representatives Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the threat of Plitvice Lakes and the protest that has been going on since 21 June.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u38848	Is this a time-out or can you speak right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u38849	.../Intruder Bunjac: I can do it right now./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u38850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u38851	Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since June 21st, it means a full 2 weeks of protest led by 4 defence associations at Plitvice Lakes at the direct level of the Great Falls. Protestors are demanding to immediately stop further construction of a settlement called Plitvica sela, near the Great Falls. It states that the survival of waterfalls is the main attraction of the national park only possible with normal water supply and that it decreases because the settlers draw water from the stream that the waterfall supplies. The measurements show that the water level that touches the waterfall is dramatically reduced up to three times compared to the flow at the source. Generally, the lakes we know can exist only and only if the water is in the stream, or the lakes are clean because otherwise it will destroy the sedars and if the sedra lakes are destroyed it will turn into a swamp. There is a real danger that a new settlement due to the presence of humans will lead to pollution and thus to the destruction of microorganisms so-called. The sedars. A major problem in this case is the spatial plan adopted in 2014 by the local HDZ administration and adopted by the SDP and HNS majority in the Assembly. According to the plan, individual tycoons are allowed to approach their facilities, lakes at such a distance that guests can have a view, right to the lake. These first apartments and hotels that have been built, so on an altitude above the lake are currently rented at a price of 500 euros per day. Of course, both bankers and politicians, all parties, are involved until the very top of the state. The representatives of the Living Wall visited Plitvice, and after the talks on both sides, we were convinced that the demands of the protesters were justified. In addition, there is a whole series of news reports on the significant pollution of the lake due to the flow of sewers, and it was once ironically reported that Plitvice had received their 17th lake. The reports also talk about the excessive number of tourists and their inappropriate behaviour. It was mentioned that the lakes also damaged the military polygon at Slunj due to both detonation and earthquake of the soil and possible pollution. In addition, the international community shows great interest in this issue, with the following news to be set aside. The UNESCO mission report in February this year raised concerns about the unsustainable expansion of tourism content and the excessive number of visitors to the park. Therefore, at its 42nd session, members of the mission will recommend that the World Heritage Committee consider entering Plitvice Lakes National Park on the World Heritage List in danger. This means translated that Plitvice Lakes National Park should actually be found on the so-called so-called “Plitvice Lakes. ” Blacklist. Other European countries know how to protect world heritage. France, for example, has gone so far as to ban access to tourists completely. So no tourist can talk to any particular localities anymore because their presence and locality has damaged and destroyed them. We obviously have no will for such a thing, we have a national park, so we have a world heritage, but the interests of a few tycoons and politicians are obviously ahead of what we should do. Plitvice Lakes should be preserved for generations to come, Plitvice Lakes are not only ours, nor are they of the inhabitants who live there, they repeat once again represent the national park but also the world heritage, they are in fact somehow the property of citizens of the whole world. I ask you once again to inform yourself about the protest that is going on there, about four defense associations, a whole series of citizens who support this protest, there could be a serious incident, and I think things should be considered calmly and taken whatever it takes to calm down the tensions and Plitvice Lakes have been preserved and treated appropriately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u38852	Thank you, too, Mr. Bunjac, and for the precision of time. Good afternoon, we can begin. Although a large number of MPs are at the Srebrenica memorial we must stick to time, time and we must begin. The first item of the agenda is the - Report on the operation of the Pension Fund from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2015 by the applicant: The Management Board of the Pension Fund The holder of the Act is the Management Board of the Pension Fund under Article 35. Retirement Fund Act and Article 10 The Statute of the Pension Fund. A motion for an act delivered to all of you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. You've received a report. The government delivered an opinion. I want to give a word first to the Government's representative for an additional explanation. Here are Ivana Jakir-Baja, the applicant of the Management Board of the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43910	Thank you. Dear MPs and MPs before you is the Report on the operation of the Pension Fund for the period from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2015, which is being produced as heard by the Pension Fund Act. Before presenting the fund's operations during that period, allow me to look at the relevant relevant, important legislative framework at the beginning of the few minutes for this report. Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 12 May 1998. which entered into force in 2004 shall be governed by the implementation of that decision of the Constitutional Court in order to compensate the beneficiaries of pensions which took place due to the partial harmonisation of pensions for the period from 1 September '93. until 31 December '98. A year. The beneficiaries of old and early age, disability, family pensions were entitled to compensation under the provisions of the '91 Law on Fundamental Rights of Pension-Invalid Insurance. the year and the Retirement-Invalid Insurance Act and how I have already pointed out for the period from 1 September '93. until 31 December '98. a on the basis of the harmonisation of these pensions with the movement of the average net salary of all employees in the territory of the Republic of Croatia during the same period according to data provided by the State Statistics Office. The law implementing the Constitutional Court decision also defined that the compensation of pensioners would be achieved through a specific fund to be established by a special law. It is certainly about the Pension Fund Act on the basis of which this report was submitted, which was adopted in 2005. This law establishes the Pension Fund and regulates the way in which pensioners are compensated. The HPB Invest of 22 November 2005 and in accordance with the Agreement on the Management of Assets of the Pension Fund shall carry out management tasks of this Fund. To remind ourselves, pensioners were able to decide on the selection of the compensation model by choosing between model A and the half-payment of the amount of compensation within 2 years or model B and the payment of the total amount of compensation within 8 years from two years. Two registers have been established – the basic register of fund members and the register of users of the family's highest pensions of fund members. The first payments started in June 2006. From June 2006 to the end of 2009, 7.7 billion kuna was paid from the fund. This report clearly describes the operations of the Fund in the next period, meaning from the beginning of 2010 until the end of 2015. In November 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at its meeting to transfer 2 million 859 thousand and 148 regular shares of Croatian Telecommunications to the Pension Fund at a price of 283,31 kuna. In December 2010, 826.2 million kuna was paid for the 4th war on the compensation of model B of the basic register of 707.6 million kuna and the third war on the compensation of model B of the family's largest pensions of 118.6 million kuna. In 2011, the basic register fund entered with assets of 3.6 million kuna, 2 million 399 thousand and 158 shares of total HT value 692.7 million kuna, claims for unpaid assets of 1.5 billion kuna and total liabilities of 728 million kuna. And the Family Top Pensions Register entered with assets in 2011 of 2.1 million kuna of money, 459990 shares of total HT 132.8 million kuna, claims for unpaid assets worth 353 million kuna and total liabilities of 728 million kuna. In May 2011, a dividend from HT shares of 65.1 million kuna was also paid to the pension fund. In October 2011, 818.8 million kunas were paid in damages and this fifth war of compensation of model B of the basic register amounting to 700.9 million kuna and the fourth war of compensation of model B of family and largest pensions of HRK 117.8 million. Clearly, in order to secure the funds for the above-mentioned payment, HPB Invest previously concluded a trade agreement with Zagreb Bank and HPB in the amount of 818.8 million kuna. In the same contract, the HPB Invest committed itself to buying the same amount of HPB by October 2012 at the latest. It is important to stress that in October 2012, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision to give consent to the Ministry of Finance, to assume the obligation of the pension fund to the Bank of Zagreb and the HPB, based on the 2010 and 2011 trade agreement that I mentioned in the total amount of HRK 1.6 billion, which is included in the public debt. During 2012, as well as during 2011, a dividend from HT shares of €63.3 million was also paid to the pension fund. In December 2012, 817.7 million kunas of compensation were paid and 6 wars of compensation of model B of basic register amounting to 700.5 million kuna and 5 wars of compensation of model B of family and highest pensions amounting to EUR 117.2 million. In order to ensure that these funds were previously in debt of 720 million kuna. In accordance with the government's decision, from December 2012, the fund was also paid EUR 100 million to compensate for the difference in the price of the share to the nominal value of the share of 1 kuna. In December 2013, 6 wars of model B were paid to register the family's highest pensions of EUR 117.1 million. It is important to stress that this is both the united and the final war of compensation. To sum up, in the period from 2010-2013, which includes this report, it has been paid to the damages of 2.6 billion kuna. In 2006-2009, 7.7 billion kuna was paid. The biggest payments went right in those first years. In 2006, we own ourselves, that in October 2006, the Republic of Croatia introduced 3 million 117 thousand and 127 shares of Pliva sold in 2.6 billion kuna. In November of the same year, the pension fund was allocated 8000 and 875 shares of INA at the price of 1690 kuna per share. All shares were sold until June 2007 for compensation payments in 2007. So from the draft pension fund until 31 December 2015, which includes that report, a total of 10.3 billion kuna was paid for 488 thousand 577 members. That amount should certainly be added to the amount of 180 million kuna, as the fund carried out from 21 December 2015 for the purpose of the payment of one-off monetary income to pensioners realised in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generational solidarity, in accordance with the government's decision. On 31 December 2015, the account showed a balance of 9.6 million kuna. Financial reports of the Fund, 2010, 2011 In 2012, 2013, 2014, Deloitte audited the audit house. All financial reports have been given a positive opinion by the audit houses. The Management Board of the Pension Fund adopted audited financial reports each year at its meetings. HPB Invest has established an effective fund management through the contact centre and the entry centre. Contact center with free phone number, worked every day from 7-24. From the start of the Fund's work, the number of calls for a free number was 736741 from 2006 to 31 December 2015. The report you have before you also shows data on the logistics support provided by HPB Invest during the management of the pension fund. From January 2011, until May 30, 2012, the chairman of the Management Board was Mr Hrvoje Dolenec. By May 2016 Mr Miljenko Fitzer. I must say that HPB Invest with colleagues as chairman of the board of directors, that they have done the job, and on me as chairman of the board of directors since May of the previous year, I have remained to recapitulate, through this report, the operations of the fund and their work when the implementation of this extremely important, large and technically complex project is being carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43911	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. First came Mr. Silvano Hrelja Club of Independent Representatives and HSU. And it was a replica? Who? ... I didn't see it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Shuker replica. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43912	Thank you very much. This is how I'm interested in Table Six. It's about the total amount of 13 billion and 780 million. So it's about the principal and the interest. And those subsequent liabilities that are retired, by subsequent memo, the total repayment of the pensioner's debt is somewhere over 14 billion kuna. However, what I would like to say here, and very often here in the debates is used. So, most of the IPO's income, HT went to pay back the pensioners. So through the IPO, the state sold 32.5% of HT shares in total about 7 billion kuna, and most of it went to pay the pensioners back. Also through the IPO, a little less than 17% of INA shares, Croatian citizens and institutional investors were sold for a total of 3.5 billion kuna revenue somewhere. And not to speak, and here you have indicated in the report that there are also later transferred shares of HT to the Pension Fund. What I have reported for the replica is that here very often it is said that someone sold it to the INA, etc., so HDZ did not sell any of the shares of the INA to MOL, none of them should say it out loud and clear here. Today's ownership structure of INA is 49.1% MOL, 44.8% Croatian state and 6.1% institutional investors, hence the Croatian state with institutional investors still has over 50% of the INA Assembly votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43913	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jakir-Bajoy, do you want to answer now or in the end? In the end. Thank you. Now here's Mr. Silvano Hrelja in front of the club of Independent Representatives and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43914	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It is also appropriate for a pensioner to chair the Assembly session when discussing the Pension Fund. So respected secretary of state, respected board presidents, representatives of HPB Invest, members of the administration, colleagues and colleagues. Yeah, I'm sure at a distance of 11 years, this looks pretty simple, but there are a few of us here who know every step in this from law-making to the formation of the Pension Fund, to business, to the difficulties they've been having, to find the means to pay off a certain war and really it's a big deal. It is a technical solution to the correction of a great injustice which was committed to Croatian pensioners between 1993 and 1998 when they had one right under the law, and under the regulation they were paid a lower right and thus the Constitutional Court's decision of 1998 was operationalized. People then must remind you all together and share some experiences with you, then it's a dilemma how to solve it. Namely, if you're making damages, then you have to either have a court ruling per individual or you have to have out of court settlement. Imagine going into settlements with some 700 thousand pensioners who were retired from 1993 to 1998. After a lot of thinking and a lot of variants, the investment fund was chosen for the simple reason that the payments from the investment fund were not taxable at the time or today for the members of the investment fund, so the pensioners calculated the amounts and what they opted for to the variant A or B got untaxable. So technically it was only possible, everything else would be much, much more complicated. Of course, investment fund management techniques should have been mastered, which is not. He is actually a paying fund where those who deal with the management of the pension fund so the HPB Invest that was selected in the public tender, he was at least part of the investment of the fund's assets, engaged all the time in communication, most of all in communication with the fund members, whether it was about changes in the home address, whether it was a challenge to the right, whether it was an inheritance. Finally, in this summary, you have a nice table that describes all the years, and here, from 2010 to 2015, all the contacts in the logistics support provided by HPB Invest to fund members. And if by any chance you had an entire period of 11 years, this table would be one unimaginable number of contacts with members. Of course, I know and I say I participated in all these stages and I know that we had as HSU our representatives on the board of directors and that they were very rigid in respecting all the legal rules from almost impossible situations how to form a prospectus and publish it until we sent out those notices that people and taking back that people have committed themselves to what kind of payout they want to do up to a lot of work to determine the heirs, since this is the right inheritance but only for the first succession order. There was some dispute, and we asked for legal experts' opinions, given that the first inheritance order means children and women, but not women if there are no children in marriage. So there's been a lot of it. So, a very complex, very demanding project, a project that was under the roof and I think it is managed, i.e. that the board of directors really respected all the legal norms that were required to be respected Here there is nothing but in continuity for all and presidents of the board of directors and members of the board of directors to thank for their dedicated work and respect for the absolute respect of legality. I'd take another chance because we don't have a chance to talk about it every day. In fact, we had the rest of the money from about 190 million kuna. And we have one more piece of information that on 31 December 2015 22 thousand 97 members of the fund did not report the payment of the share. To be clear, I've been looking at these calculations, here among these 22 thousand 97 members there are compensations from 50 lip to 1000 kuna. So, of course, if in 2006, if someone offered someone whether 5 kunas wanted to go into four wars in two years or wanted to pay 5 kuna in 8 wars, or 6 wars with a start of 2 years, so in full, and this first half, you know that they didn't show up. He's never answered, and he'll never answer. In the meantime, a large number of people have died, no one is interested, and I think that part will close when the pension fund is closed and there are no more problems. One part of the money from the 180 which was paid in 2015 as a one-time cash add-on or Christmas card for pensioners is from these sources and the other part of the money is due to the so-called Ossuary property, and ossuary property is the property of the Republic of Croatia which is made up when users who exercise a certain right die without heirs and it becomes the property of the Republic of Croatia. So to be clear, these coins are not taken by the pensioners, but are part of the state-owned Croatian property in the pension fund, and this has been strictly taken into account. And I think that, whatever anyone thinks about it, and it can be given the epithet that it was a pre-election campaign, but I think it's fair that the money that's left behind the pensioners is kind of divided into the pensioners. And I don't think that part of anyone can slow down, it can only slow down the moment it's done. So it's worth it when we have enough time and it's not a big crowd, and it's worth explaining. Of course we still have before us, i.e. we will have a report on the work of this Retirement Fund for 2016. And I believe that also members of the board of directors and representatives of HPB investments and presidents agree that this year we should conclude this story and close this, or liquidate this fund. There are a few more open suits, but in 2015, the remaining nine million kunas have quite enough resources to do this, let's say the fund's business in lera and the settlement related to possible litigation because the estimate is that it's not some large amount. By probably transferring that money to a budget item reserved for HZMO as a reservation for those purposes. But I think it's time that 11 years after, or 12 years after the establishment of a pension fund to get rid of that story. As much as we intended to do so as accurately as possible, the better we can, because it says additional work in this fund was also the subsequent second register because of additional compensation and amendments to the law and additions to the Pension Fund and also the law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision because they are the family and the highest working pensions according to the ZOM. So that was an additional puzzling circumstance. Even so, we managed to keep things under control. And I simply as one of the active participants can't thank you, and I'll probably do it again on the day that we pass the Liquidation Act and this Pension Fund that I don't thank all the participants in this business because it's a really big job for us, too. And there's really nothing to say that something was sold or that something went wrong, it went into the hands of those to whom it belonged, who were also damaged by the calculation because it couldn't definitely be done by virtue of the Constitutional Court's decision because it was about individual rights. And as long as it was in the sphere of collective debt returns, it couldn't have been settled. Thus, individual law could only be settled by calculating, individual calculation and individual compensation, so it is a complex and demanding job. And I say at the end of my presentation on behalf of the club, so I probably forgot something or I'll be reminded of the other participants in the debate, so I'll possibly say some more things in an individual debate. At the end of this presentation, I would like to point out once again and congratulate everyone on the sustainability, professionalism and goodwill and dedicated work in the realization of this project, I really believe that this is one of the projects of the decade in Croatia's recent history. Thank you very much. Excuse me, of course we'll support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43915	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrelja. Mr. Shucker, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43916	I'm glad you reminded me of some things because this was the biggest payment in the history of the Croatian state. It was never that much money for something paid, however, it should also be said that the position at which the Republic of Croatia was at that moment was neither great nor contributed to this process for which there was a goodwill and practically political consensus to be made because at that time Croatia was under stand by arrangement with the IMF which dictated its story. We had precise plans to reduce the deficit, they threatened lawsuits, hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens, and we had to find a model of how to solve it all together because let's not forget that these are all pensioners who went into retirement before practically entering the Income Tax Act when pensions were taxable. And once, in that old system, there was a pension contribution in that gross salary practically on retirement tax, and that was the reason why you asked for a model how to pay it all together, because if it were taxed then that story would have cost six, seven billion more. Also, I repeat the complete IPO Ine and the complete IPO of HT has gone to this purpose for the reason we hear all kinds of stories here, because at that moment it was impossible for the Republic of Croatia to be in charge. There was no money on the domestic market, the domestic banks had no money, and on the international market issuing bonds for such a purpose was simply impossible, because it would have been a terrible interest, and otherwise the situation was what it was. And that's why I'm glad the plates are made the way they are, that show everything. I say, that's what I said to the Committee on Finance, maybe we should show this financial structure so some of us might argue a little differently because no one sold national interests, sold family silver for something, but simply to return what belongs to them to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43917	Thank you, Mr. Shuker. Mr. Hrelja, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43918	Dear fellow Shuker, I agree that it was a difficult time, that we were under stand by the IMF arrangement, however it was another story, yet the Croatian economy was on a kind of take-off and at the same time we had more assets than we had today, and of course we couldn't Alimentate it from the budget. I absolutely agree with you that when this pension fund was closed or the law on closure was passed, it should make real tables from the beginning to the end to see which property was settled, or sacrificed for the compensation of pensioners, but thus the rule of law was at its own price and that it was also the price of Croatia as a rule of law, that it respected the decisions of its Constitutional Court and that it was not only a dead letter left on paper because the decision itself would never have led to this realization that there was no law on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision and that we did not find a model of compensation through the pension fund, and it was not easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43919	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43920	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague of the Hrelja, for returning us a little days ago 12 years ago when this procedure took place even though the whole procedure was, as you yourself said, based on the decision of the 98 Constitutional Court. the year because of the fact that a single group of pensioners had not indexed those 5 years from '93 to '98. A year. At that time, as I recall, there were about 700 thousand pensioners, in 2005, who were supposed to enter this system, but I think somewhere around 450 thousand pensioners went into the process in which they were paid out of this fund about 10 and a half billion kuna. What I was about to say, but said my colleague Shucker, it is the fact that the money for insurance is a large part of the debt to the pensioners, made through the sale of the public initial offer, two, and perhaps the most profitable Croatian companies, both HT and INA, and that the fact that the government then decided to go to that offer so that debt could be paid to the pensioners, speaks sufficiently of the fact that it was highly respected and implemented by the legal state or by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, as we mention those days, I also want to remember that it was a time when it was not easy to pay off those funds, that it was especially when the last war went down in 2011, that it was a very difficult situation, that it was a time of severe crisis, that it was, however, out of the budget, that obligation that the Constitutional Court set out, that it was respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43921	Thank you very much for the reply to Mr. Hrelja's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43922	Comrade Bačić, don't be offended, but then the then Prime Minister, perhaps this will act as a praise, had his own political goal, and HDZ had a political goal, and these were European integrations, we were indeed like HSU drivers, we insisted that this be realised. They would never have realised it themselves without the government, if we had understood each other, but just the same thing to say to everyone in this assembly, our three votes are and then replaceable because HSP then had 9 mandates in the Croatian Assembly and we were very much... but it was in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to prove itself as a legal state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course it does not go politically in a direction that would move it away from European integration. So he was the skeleton of some thoughtful policy, and we should always take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43923	Thank you. Third replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43924	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I apologize for your presentation, Mr. Hrelj, because we had a sign of genocide in Srebrenica at Šokčević's Hall, so perhaps you said so, and at the very beginning of your presentation without hearing it if it was, then an apology. In any case, at the very end of your presentation, you said that when the law is passed, you would commend people for a proper and professional job. And you have touched in one part of these current values of retirement since 1998, following the Constitutional Court's decision that ordered it at the time. However, there is a further emphasis to be made on that supplement, I don't know if you've talked about it, means retirement allowance and that 100 kuna plus six percent, which in 2003 to 750,000 pensioners amounted to 1 and a half billion, more precisely a billion 530 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43925	The answer to Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43926	Yeah, I'm not an esteemed colleague. I didn't spread the story beyond the subject. There's today's report on the work of the Pension Fund. I've expanded a little in terms of the history of the fund, but not beyond that. Of course, the compensation was also in the account of those payments by 2004 which were made by two additions 0.5 to 20% due to the different retirement conditions introduced by the coalition government and 100 kunas and 6% that existed earlier and served as a collective debt to pensioners. Of course, that's what I'm going to say in an individual discussion through a calculation. For example, those who had a short period of damage were retired in 1997 and had relatively lower or medium pensions for them through the payment of 100 kuna and 6% as collective methods paid compensation and they did not exercise the right to this kind of compensation that went through the Pension Fund. Of course that's what we need to talk about. There were about 240,000 of them so now we're not going exactly, we're talking about exact numbers, but about 240,000 didn't come true because the calculation found that they got more through the 100 kuna and 6%. And it should finally say 100 kuna and 6% did not lose but was incorporated into their pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43927	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Mladen Karlic will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43928	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored State Secretary, Honored Chairman of the Management Board of the Fund, Honored Representatives of the HPB Invest, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am not going to be so easily spoken to as Mr. Hrelja, who is both a pensioner and an active participant of this Fund, and I will, of course, expect to be in that position. But here, I think there's a report in front of us that's really positive, which is extremely high-quality and well done all these years where I think we can be really happy. And of course the Croatian Democratic Community will also support this report on the business of the Fund from 2010 to 2015. The Retirement Fund Act has been adopted and implemented in order to implement the obligations arising from the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since May 1998, which has been governed by the compensation of pensioners. Under the law, a special pension fund was established from which the beneficiaries of pension and their successors from the first succession order, as is said, were paid the sums of individual compensation on the basis of those two models A and B, where the model A is the payment of half of the amount of compensation within two years and model B where it was paid over 6 years with two years of starting. What is extremely important is that the HPB Invest has done this job extremely well, since it is initially for members of the Fund to notify membership and the amount of the amount of compensation, statements on how to acquire and make available the shares in the Pension Fund for those who have the right to compensation, as well as notices in the calculation of the amount of compensation for those who do not have the right to compensation. The members of the Fund decided directly by law to choose the compensation model by selecting one of these two that we listed. The HPB Invest also calculated and allocated interest to fund members totalling 2 billion and 300 million kuna in such a way that the amount of interest was divided by the amount of compensation and thus attributed the amount of compensation to the members of the Fund. The attribution of these interest was made for the allocation of shares to the members of the Fund, and the total amount of compensation received from the number of compensations from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and the prescribed interest was converted into shares which, one kuna was one share. Before the conversion itself, in line with the selection of the Fund members' model, a reduction in the total amount of compensation was made by 50% for those who opted for the A model. In this way, a basic register of Fund members was established. What is also important to point out once again is that it is 19 November 2010. The Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at its session on the transfer of 2 million and 859 thousand shares of HT to the Pension Fund, which at that time had a price of around 283,000 kuna, which was slightly more than 809 million kuna. On 21 December 2015, the funds transferred from the Fund amounting to kuna 180 million for the purpose of payment of one-off cash amount, i.e. Christmas Day, so December 31st, the amount of balance on the fund's account is 9 million and 500 thousand kuna. What is also important to emphasise is that from the draft pension fund to 31 December 2015 more than 10 billion kuna has been paid for nearly 500 thousand members of this fund, or pensioners. Given that the fund has fully completed its task, I think that here we can really support, praise this report and prepare it means leaving here as it is said for some way to abolish the fund, since it has done its job, except for a few more court disputes, which will be, which is a small amount, and since 9.5 million kuna funds will be easily resolved. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43929	Thank you, Mr. Karlic. We have two replicas. The first one is Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43930	I don't have what you're saying. I only have one comment. You've put me among the retired, and I haven't retired yet. On the day of the constitution of this council, 39 years and 4 days of internship. I hope to be a pensioner as well as our vice president and to be able to enjoy my retirement. You said everything else exactly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43931	Would you like to answer that? You'll probably say it's just our desire to retire.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43932	I'm sorry, I'm already slowly hoping to retire, so I thought you were already... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43933	Thank you very much. Next line, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43934	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Carlic, you said there are also those who have the right to compensation and those who do not have the right to compensation. Truth works, you should actually say it's so-called. The old pensioners in 2003 on behalf of these two things I said and those 6% were paid for about 3.8 billion kuna. But, so-called. New pensioners, this is the problem with the pensioners there was no correction of the current value of the assets. And it's actually a problem that weighs on many pensioners and what they're actually getting to know all the governments in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43935	Thank you, Mr. Babic. He doesn't want to answer Mr. Karlic... In front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. With this report of some other small things, when we look at the total amount in the next period and shut down the fund, one story that began in 93 years ends, means nearly 24 years ago, when HDZ's Valentiæ government, in order to curb hyperinflation, decided to freeze salaries and pensions to Croatian pensioners. So these war years when Croatia was in trouble and the pensioners have endured, I would say one of the biggest burdens and financial ones to make things better in Croatia. This injustice began to correct in 2007, when the then government, by my deep conviction, was not out of noble intent to correct this injustice and theft that was done to the pensioners while Croatia at the same time had a privatisation salary in part 90's, so one was paid, pensioners and others were also taking away social property. These were not noble intentions at the time of the government, but it was simply an account that in the pre-election year had to be done, but it doesn't matter, I am satisfied, and I support those who took advantage of that possibility and as coalition partners at the time, but I am giving it to them for plus taking advantage of the chance that something that was wrong and what was then 14, 15 years was corrected by one law, model, so that then the pensioners would receive compensation, or their families. What is not good and what unfortunately follows this whole story, and I see that some have a little conscience, and they mention it with nothing caused, and I didn't mean to argue like that, but now I have to say, the injustice would be used to clean up a few more companies that were too valuable and to lose what Croatia is willing to pay dearly at this point. No one forced the HDZ government then and Mr. Shucker, who is here to settle the money for the pension fund and repay the debt to sell and transfer shares of the INA, HT, and I'm going to mention another Pliva company. That's not what we heard in the debate today, but also Pliva, so that these money can get to the pensioners, and basically, in order for the small door to be privatised by these companies to continue or finish. And then today we ask ourselves how did this have to do with the property of the Republic of Croatia in 2006, the seventh, eighth, ninth, when the Defence Fund sold its shares to MOL INA and thus allowed MOL to have close to 50% at the moment, and some speak through some hidden accounts and over 50% and manage the company as if it were exclusively their property, and the Republic of Croatia puts in a position that with 44% ownership there is almost no influence in that company. Why am I telling you this? Once again, I will say there was no need for this, nor for the transfer of shares of INA or HT because the commitments made for the Retirement Fund since 2011 were financed in an orderly manner from public sources from the budget, guarantees from the state behind the HPB Invest's task and not a small amount of money. Of the 10 billion and 200 million kunas, it is more than 3 billion kunas that were secured during that period so that these money could be paid to the end of all pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. So you have two models, one model is to take advantage of trouble, trouble and injustice, and privatize below the grains what could be privatized in Croatia and what was worth. You have another model, that as a responsible authority, you stand behind it and finance it from public sources. It is very simple to compare what is better for Croatia and what Croatian citizens think is better. If we were to do a survey among Croatian citizens now whether they want to sell INA, HT and Pliva, and now ten years later to buy it back, watch out for that nonsensus, they will still earn someone or stop immediately by indemnity from the budget, 99% of the people would probably be for this other variant made by the government of Zoran Milanovic since 2011. And one more thing when we did it? We did this in 2012 when GDP fell 2% leaving the result of the government of Jadranka Kosor and Ivo Sanader in the previous period, and in 2006 and the seventh certainly some of you do not remember, GDP grew over 4%, in 2007, even 5.6%. And then I wonder how it is possible to secure in an extremely unfavourable situation in 2012, money to the pensioners in the way that we did it, when it was a deficit after Mr. Shucker and the former government over 25 billion kuna when it consolidated... Mr Furio, I ask you to warn Mr. Shucker. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He's nervous. He's got a chance to lift up a replica, so let him say "sir," not "birtian" to yell out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43937	Please don't continue, I'll be the one to do the damage to the Rules of Procedure, but don't go on. Please don't go on for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43938	Shall I not continue or continue?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43939	Keep reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43940	Thank you very much. So it's very clear to make a distinction between one and the other. When the money was in 2006, the seventh one went to overpaid highways in FIMI Media, into various things, and it couldn't be secured for the pensioners, and then at the same time we went to INA and HT, that's one model. And the second model is that the state stands behind the government's decision, the law, the state and pays it out of public funds like the government of Zoran Milanovic did, and I'm sure people see it and I'm sure they'll know who did it properly and how it did it. Please, can I go on? You want to warn a colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43941	I haven't even heard him honestly, but you can go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43942	I ask you to warn colleagues who are constantly interrupting, I know it bothers them, no, and Mr. Djakic, who was probably involved in the sale of INA via the Defence Fund, no, I know it bothers them. ... Well, you're proud to have sold INA to the Hungarians, and now you're going to overpay them fat. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43943	Excuse me, Mr. Maras, just a moment... the speakers speak at the same time. Please tell me whatever you want, but when you're behind the pay phone, the speakers behind the pay phone should speak to the public, not to certain MPs, whether they interfere or not, if they interfere, they will be reprimanded. Thank you. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43944	Yes, I apologize to you, Mr. Vice President, but people need to know this. So there were two ways to pay off the pension fund. One is by privatizing the family silver of the most valuable state-owned companies that have thus left our property and the other is as transparent as we have done since 2011. I mean, we're going to support this bill, we're going to do what's... out of the state's decision and kind of verify that job that lasted over 24 years and over 400,000 pensioners felt like a certain benefit, but we need to say this because such mistakes in the future don't repeat themselves. First, not to do injustice to Croatian pensioners as it was done in the 1990s and second, that this injustice and trouble were not used to sell the most valuable Croatian assets under the grain, but to pay it out of the budget as it was not paid out of the budget during the 1990s. And in years, I said when GDP grew over 5%, when there was money but there was no money to pay off the debt to Croatian pensioners, there was money to overpay highways, to paint tunnels, there was money for FIMI MEDIA, for all of it, for the Mountains. Here we hear today that Mr. Cobankovic submitted that he was afraid for his life, so here he had to testify falsely in court, so he's looking for a retrial. For all that, there was money, but there was no money for the pensioners. And if you think you're gonna make it impossible for us to talk about it here, you're wrong because people need to know that. There are still living witnesses here and those who have made decisions on behalf of the Republic of Croatia that are harmful to the Republic of Croatia according to my deep conviction and that they are harmful to the fact that we now want to buy INA, although, by the way, Prime Minister Plenkovic does not say anything at all about it either, Martina Dalic. But at least the intention was shown to buy INA for more expensive money than we taught when we filled the pension fund and sold the shares from the defense fund. And now someone would like to not talk about it here at all. And they're still talking like you know what you're talking about. Well, there's all the paperwork for that. But the rudeness that Mr. Djakic demonstrates here won't stop me and I know he's very nervous and that people know all this and that they know who he is and how he behaves and that he won't forget. Here you may appear in which book of Ivo Sanader, we will now read it, that all of this will remain marked in the consciousness of our people, and we are only saying it here so that it will never happen again in the Republic of Croatia, to steal the pensioners and then sell the most valuable Croatian property. And that's our only motivation. And as for the very work of the fund, my support for this report, that is, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, and once again an apology to all those pensioners who have been since '93. were deceived and stolen while in Croatia warring but also stolen through the privatisation of companies and they submitted the burden. And an apology that they had to wait so long but I hope this was at least a little satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43945	We have three replicas. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shucker, and then three replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43946	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Maras injured Article 238(5). The basic thing that we as advocates here should be doing is telling the truth and simply the documents that were in this high house present as they are, nothing else. If the sale on the London and Zagreb Stock Exchange is below the grain, then it's an honor. If someone forgot they sold 6% of the shares to PLIVA to cover some HZZO debts. Another thing for the Croatian public, colleagues and colleagues, the INA Privatisation Act was passed by the SDP government in 2002. And whoever wants to see so let them see what's in that law, that law has never been put out of force, just as the HEP Privatization Act has been passed. So in 2010, the law was put off the table, but I'm going to talk about it more and more individually. [[Mr. Shucker, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43947	Thank you. Mr. Maras has the right to breach the Rules of Procedure as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43948	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker hurt Article 238 because he did not give a single example that I hurt the Rules of Procedure but brought out my thesis as if people didn't remember what was going on, as if people didn't remember who sold it and who made the privatisation of both INA and the final sale of the shares of the INA. So it was a trust under the authority of then Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. So people remember all that very, very well. And I beg you, don't be angry, so you can make a mistake, so you can't be sinless. You don't think you're sinless, do you? So admit the mistake of 10 years ago, people will forgive you but don't resist that mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43949	Thank you. Another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43950	Mr. Vice President, I don't want to use the Rules of Procedure, but simply my colleague Maras referred to the wrong article. Article 238 does not say what he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43951	Here you go, Mr. Stazic's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43952	This Regulation shall enter A Rules of Procedure which speaks of the powers and duties of the President of the Parliament and of the one who replaces it. I give you the objection, Mr. Vice President, because you're allowing Shuker, under the influence of the Rules of Procedure, to actually express a replica. Don't let him do it, he does it on purpose, he knows he's breaking the Rules of Procedure, he's breaking it on purpose, you warn him, punish him, you throw him out of the hall to preserve the integrity of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43953	Thank you. No, no, enough, enough, thank you very much. Let's move on with the replicas. Mr. Shuker merely stated that it was the wrong article, only so he couldn't get the article to be the wrong article. Here you go, Mr.... No, I won't give you any more, I'm sorry, but I won't give you any more... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, it's become a game. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Hrelja has the right to reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43954	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I never expected the debate on the pension fund and this big project to lead to scenarios and situations like this. What I want to replicate with my colleagues, Maras, is that the Law implementing the Constitutional Court's decision was made in 2004 to look for a model in 2005 that in early 2006 the pensioners stated about the compensation model and that the first payments under model A were in 2006 and not in 2007. Of course, 2007 was the end of model A and the beginning of model B, so it was the most demanding in 2007. The second thing to tell the truth is, then as an active participant we consulted both the World Bank and the IMF, it was simply not allowed to finance this from the budget, and that was not allowed by our coalition, Milanovic's government. Look at the reports, you'll see that the shares were transferred to the fund, you'll see that the dividends were transferred but there was no direct funding from the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43955	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Maras' replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43956	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrelja, like this. So here you can on page, although you are not numbered pages, so I can hardly tell you which page, but the obvious page 2 of the summary report, you will see that December 12, 2012. The government stood up for the HPB Invest's task, so it stood behind the task. What is it, but public debt and insurance that money will come back. So, on that side, you could and could have done it then. Why couldn't it have been then, Mr. Hrelja? Because of what we overpaid the highways? Because of what was uncontrollable spending of money from the state budget. To behave more responsibly, each country uses GDP growth to consolidate its public finances and lie to the economy in parallel. In addition to Croatia, which grew 5% in 2006 and 2007, and the deficit grew. So on that side, the very clear logic regardless, again I say the inappropriate behavior of some MPs, we need to be honest. It could have been different if public finances were run differently, but they didn't. And what I say once again, it's a good thing that injustice has been corrected, but they used some of the most valuable Croatian companies to get further away from our property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43957	Thank you, too. The word has a Mr. Babic who also has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43958	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament of Col. Maras, for saying that this story began in '93 but because of hyperinflation but the war then and because of the consequences of the war, you should have stated because of correctness that from 1990 to 1993 it was the ratio of pensioners 3 to 1 but because of the war it fell to 1.38 to 1. Also, the number of employees fell by 562,000 then, but then the number of pensioners increased by 362,000. It was very difficult for the Croatian state, which was attacked and was at war. With regard to privatisation itself as a controversy of Croatian society, you either forget or deny and constantly manipulate, in fact, the privatisation of the HDZ guilt, exculpating the SDP, or members of the Communist Party. And you know very well but you keep it secret that this privatisation or the beginning of that privatisation started before the end of '89. The year with Anto Markovic, then a member of the Communist Party, after a member of the SDP and Professor Jaksa Barbic, who then passed the Company Act, you know very well, and you should say that because of the public. I think you're okay with that. Then in Yugoslavia, i.e. by creating a Croatian state in all companies, banks, thenOURs and SOURs, they were members of the Communist Party, after members of the SDP. So much for the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43959	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Maras' replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43960	Thank you very much. Mr. Babic, in your replica you mentioned the freezing of wages, war and the 1990s, the difficult years for Croatia, but as the salaries of employees and pensioners represented by Mr. Hrelja have not frozen privatisation. The theft continued. Why are the salaries and pensions of Croatian citizens who are watching us now frozen, but the privatisation has not frozen. Privatisation was given a stopper, theft became even faster and stronger, and when you talk about the guilt of former structures or former parties that no longer existed in the Republic of Croatia, which passed certain laws, however, it was defined that workers were getting shares. Later amendment of the privatisation law has led to the appearance of Kutle and other boys. And another big one is guilty, and I would say the burden on that former party is what was from that party in HDZ after the 1990s. They came in, so far they couldn't take the Fascism victims' market to people as crowded as it was from the Cube towards, reportedly even one tram line is just that part of the vehicle, from the Cube to the Fascism Victims' Square. So over 80,000 former party members flocked to HDZ, probably a large majority of them with the intention to participate in the privatisation that it was afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43961	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43962	And those people who were thinking....
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43963	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43964	.../Intruder Maras: Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43965	Anything you want for two minutes. I remind you we're talking about the Pension Fund's business report, that's the subject. Mr. Culey is entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43966	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I enjoy your presentations, especially if I can replicate your subjects. I know the theme Pension funds, and you were Minister of entrepreneurship and crafts, so probably in your time you contributed to that fund in your responsible, honorable business. As a Frenchman in this House, I don't have that much experience in what happened, because I haven't been able to track everything that's been done about the robbery except when the water comes to my throat. But I also have one piece of information that the media didn't want to pass on, so they ignored when you were 2015 Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts DORH worked on you on one of your trips where you did everything you could to help the Croatian Pension Fund, so you went all the way to America, to spend hundreds of thousands of kunas and to continue shooting the movie "The Game of Thrones". So, you spent the money, "The Game of Thrones" whether they were continued with your credit or never followed that genre, but the theme of the film would be better if it was called patience and delete.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43967	I remind you once again that today's subject is the Report on the Management of the Pension Fund and of course Mr Maras has the right to respond to what has been said. But the subject should be, I'm sorry, I won't take away your time. The theme should be a report on the Pension Fund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43968	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to help Mr. Cule in his counseling work. One of the first tips I'd give him, and I see that he respects me in the debates and that he enjoys them is that he doesn't believe what he reads on these impeccable ultra-right portals. Oh, no? That's how I'd qualify. So you just don't believe it. They do not write with the desire to objectively inform the public because there are the biggest positives always the same and the same ones in the city of Zagreb who don't care if our children have in schools and kindergartens equipment and if that's what it looks like. They want to know what's going to be called a square. That's their main thing. So don't trust these people because they don't want anything good in general. They want to master one small, narrow space of five, six percent in order to feed the emotions of these people and ensure themselves some existence here in the Assembly today or tomorrow in the City Assembly and abuse as hasanbegovic does to all citizens of the city of Zagreb with non-essential topics, and essentially as important as they are to show themselves as senseless, customer-oriented, backward as you will. But those who don't deserve to harass the citizens of the city of Zagreb and don't trust those people. That's my warm advice. They may be on the beers of good Gold and company, but they don't always tell the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43969	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates. Mr. Silvano Hrelja. The old school will stick to the subject 100%. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43970	Thank you very much, Vice President. You know that I like to hear your requests and I will speak exclusively of the Pension Fund, that is, everything that preceded and related to this Report. In fact, it should be said that there has never been a single budget item for 13 years now that has led to the compensation of pensioners. So there was no foothold that even one kuna was directly paid from the RS budget to the Pension Fund because of what I said at the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the club. So you can only pay citizens on the basis of a lawsuit or an extrajudicial settlement between a state institution and a citizen. You can't pay that in this way compensation that had neither out-of-court settlements nor had individual court solutions but had behind it, there was only a decision of the Constitutional Court which, if we don't pass the laws for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, cannot be realised on its own. This is worth knowing, and this has been the whole time of the pension fund’s operations, that is, the management of the pension fund’s Management Board. Of course there are guarantees of counter-guarantee purchases and back purchases. Therefore, there were quite a number of financial transactions in which the state participated. It's undeniable, but neither she directly nor I say took part in, nor had the opportunity to give and place certain money for this purpose. So, of course, don't think that out of these 750 000 citizens who were initially in the calculation of the compensation of which we have that 10 billion 252 million 748 thousand 377,99 kuna divided 488 thousand and 577 users, or members. Those aren't all pensioners. Among these members are the heirs of the pensioners, in the first order. Of those 750 thousand, there are about 40,000 who had, of which 27 thousand were not at all, or 22 thousand 097 did not appear because of the small insignificant, or are no longer there or are not among the living or living here. 22,000 people didn't come forward, because when I repeat it again, someone offered to pay him 50 kuna either in 4 wars or in 2 years with a 50% discount or to give it to him in full, in 6 wars with... 2 years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Usually, such citizens won't answer. About 240 thousand citizens, the calculation showed that the state owed them nothing, because through a collective way of repaying debt or compensation, which is the payment of 100 kuna and 6% more than they were damaged. Now, I have to admit, these are the people who were the most dissatisfied because all the citizens, the 750 grand who entered the shootout, were expecting the money. However, these citizens are essentially the most rewarded, those 240 thousand, because 100 kuna plus 6% were retired and paid off today, if they are alive. So it's worth it again. And in order not to be fooled, there are two neural points, there are two defects to this entire project. We can't be unfair to those who got over the damage. These are particularly interesting, of course, that neither later nor today, there is no political will for anyone to go back so many years. But these are two categories of citizens, pensioners, so they were those family pensions, which were in their pensions from 93' to 98' and 2004, but in the meantime they moved on to the retirement of deceased husbands, so only by the basis of deceased spouses were calculated, not by the fact that they were previously in the period 93'-98' in retirement and yet, there are a few tens of thousands, according to some estimates. And the second category of citizens is those who retired from 93 to 98, and after 98, they got a job. They're about 700 citizens, at least it was when we were looking. That's the part, that black side of this project, we have to say, we have to be satisfied, we have to congratulate everyone who participated, because they participated in the realization of this project within the frameworks that the law gave. It's a legal flaw for these two categories of citizens. We didn't have much energy or the ability to insist on the implementation of the project, until the end of the project, and I, in some ways, have forgotten those people from the system, on behalf of all other pensioners who have exercised their right, am entitled to this opportunity and to apologize. Unfortunately, I have to tell them openly, which doesn't bring political points, that there won't be anything further because no one has any energy, nor has there been, today's political will, that it's settled after so many years, but at least we'll give them a confession that they've somehow exhausted some material damage, for the benefit of this society, if it makes life easier for them. It's not nice to talk about, but it's true. But as far as this project is concerned, which is with us on the agenda today, we don't exactly have a lot of elements here and we're looking for weak spots here, done, constantly under the glass and the public and under the glass and those beneficiaries of compensation and under the supervision of auditors, so all responsible and institutions but also responsible members of the board of directors to be all legal and to get their own, exercise their right. Therefore, in our individual visit to the Croatian Parliament, once again, I will personally and as a club that we will support this report that we should go towards the end of the 2016 report and close the fund to finish this project. And I thank all the participants in the project once more warmly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43971	Thank you, Mr. Hrelja. Mr. Zekanovic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure as Mr. Hrelja spoke... No, as Mr. Hrelja spoke, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, as Mr. Hrelja spoke, you've been, I've been looking well, so I'm warning you, if something's wrong with what Mr. Hrelja said, you're saying, if you don't, wait for a second chance. [[No, you didn't see me.]] It'll come 100% You'll get a second chance, Mr. Zekanovic. [[Intruder: Second chance, new breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Mr. Maras was looking for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Hrelja, I agree with you that the situation surrounding the pension fund or the whole idea is unquestionable. So I'm not questioning whether the pensioners were damaged, which must have been 90 of those years while there was a privatisation robbery. And secondly, that they should have been compensated and that this wasn't a bad idea when the law was passed. But the execution could have been one or the other. We may disagree here now, I'm still telling you that it could have been paid differently without having to sell Pliva, INA and T-COM. That's all I said. Nothing else. And I'm going to support the report because it verified something that happened because it corrected the injustice, but I can't say that it could have been different and that it's illogical to sell something ten years ago and now you want to buy more expensive, it's illogical. I'm talking specifically about INA, that it's illogical that at one session of the Defence Board we won't be selling shares of the INA, and in seven days, that conclusion changes and says we'll be selling shares of the INA. That's what happened at the Defense Fund. ... No, I'm not lying, that's what happened to Mr. Djakic at the Defense Fund because someone wanted to sell INA's shares to a defense attorney, and that's all I'm saying, and I think I'm right to do that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43973	Mr. Zekanovic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43974	That's right, Article 238 here is about two paragraphs, a colleague of Maras spoke about a subject that was not the subject of discussion and defamed and insulted other MPs. Mr Hasanbegovic was not there to defend himself, so here I am just going to say for a while, you are not Mr Maras who will speak what is relevant and which is not relevant what are the topics. For example, you have relevant topics. moving the memorial records to the dead Croatian defenders who have inappropriate content for you, and you resent others who have an initiative to take down another marshal Tito and his name from one of the most important city squares in the city of Zagreb. So it is not you who will decide what is relevant, which is not relevant to us, and it is not relevant for you to respect the Council of Europe resolutions in which totalitarian regimes should be condemned, and for some others it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43975	Thank you very much. He was also looking for Mr. Maras' injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I mean, at this precise moment, now that Mr. Maras is responding, he's certainly been holding the subject, right now, but here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43976	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic has injured the Rules of Procedure on something that has passed. So on one of the previous...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43977	/Intruder Radin: Which article?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43978	He hurt Article 238, and he reads a series of other articles, but now I'm not gonna count on taking my time. Mr. Zekanovic will not teach me in my town what is important to the citizens of Zagreb, so Mr. Zekanovic I will not explain to you if I was born in Zagreb. I've remembered some streets, squares, and that's what I've been calling from. I'm not as burdened with it as you are with ideology, partisans, Ustashas, etc. Most of the citizens of the city of Zagreb are not and I just complain that these 5, 6, 7% of whom it is the most important thing in life do not harass others. The most important thing in my life is whether my kindergarten child will have expendable material or not, not if it's going to be called one or the other. And don't teach me what's important in my town. And as for the record, it's not just me that's the issue. It is also controversial to Mr. Radin who is a member of the ruling coalition is a controversial panel in Jasenovac... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43979	Sit down, your time is up. You can say whatever comes to mind and I know you've got a lot on your mind, whatever comes to mind, but in two minutes. Mr. Zekanovic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. No, good. Mr. Bull's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43980	Thank you very much. A colleague, Maras, injured Article 238(1), spoke about a subject that is not the subject of discussion, is not the subject of discussion in both Jasenovac and Marshal Tito's Square. If this is how it continues the chairman, we'll have the Assembly MPs out, and let them deal with the boards. Right now, the theme is the pension fund, and if you can point that topic at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43981	Thank you very much. If you'd seen what was said yesterday, the object was a seal. I'd like to ask you no more, only if it's a subject. Here you go, Mr. Zekanovic. I have to give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43982	Miro Bulj said that I broke Article 238, he broke it about 500 times, every time he answered, he wasn't in the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43983	Thank you very much. Now, sir, the answer to the replica of Mr. Hrelja that will stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43984	Yes, dear colleague Maras, look if I can be born again I could be anything in my life, but I certainly couldn't be a doctor of general practice. I'm focused on one topic and I'm taking responsibility even more than it's ever been in my power for these people. Here I apologized none of me asked for any mistakes made here in that story and I'll always talk about that project that was. I assure you, and without any intention, you know the worst thing in life is to question constantly what would have been done like this, which would have been, you have to make decisions at a given time. During the time, the IMF and World Bank checks were carried out, given that we were in an apartment by arrangement, it was not possible at least not at the beginning of the implementation of this project to finance this from the budget. And as someone has led and financed projects in GDP growth, it is too wide to discuss the Pension Fund. I mean, I'm glad you support what's been done, and I'm glad you admit that one of us is still going to say one historic injustice to the pensioners this way. You know why we became a parliamentary party in the first place? Because former Minister Vidovic said the pensioners were all returned. And it was never possible to do so until an individual calculation of individual compensation was made to every pensioner and citizen. Well, thanks to him, I'll always honor him because we're a parliamentary party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43985	Also now, Mr. Ivan Shuker will have an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43986	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. A man must be sad when he listens to everything spoken in this House, when he speaks here are no longer arguments and facts but political debates that have no basis for any act brought by this High House or the Croatian Government that so the participants politically debated in 2005 and 2007 Croatian pensioners would never get this debt back and never this injustice would be corrected against them. Because you can look at the parliamentary debates when the Retirement Fund Act was passed and you'll see what it looked like. So if it weren't for this kind of thing, let's talk facts. Let's see who started the sale when the HT's money sat down. The end of '99. Eight hundred and fifty million dollars in the budget is settled in 2000. Who it is and why it sold 16% in 2001, it's your control package, when you have to get a very fat bonus for it because you get management rights for just 550 million marks. Or INA. In this high house, the Law on the privatisation of INA and privatisation of HEP was passed in 2002. At the time, HDZ and HSP representatives were against the law. So in 2002, 25% of INAs were privatized for 505 million. To say in this high house that something was done under the grains, and the process took place in the most transparent, most public way across the Zagreb Stock Exchange and across the stock market in London, simply disabling all the people sitting in this high house. Because if someone can say that the sale of shares that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia could have accessed, or an institutional investor at that price, was beneath the grain, then it's an honor. That says more about who said it than the fact. Let's go public, let's face it, who bought those shares on the IPO? 17.2% of the shares were bought by Croatian citizens and institutional investors. With exactly how many shares will be offered to Croatian citizens and how many will be offered to institutional investors. So it wasn't going to buy anyone as much as it wanted, it was prescribed how much that pact represents. And that's how 17.2% of INA shares were sold. But look, as much as the share in the ownership structure of Hungarians has increased, plus that of the pension fund by 17.1%). So those who are citizens and institutional investors, one part of institutional investors, have sold their shares because someone has raised the price to 2800. The shares were not sold by the Croatian government and were not sold by HDZ. So that's a fact. I could be bad here and talk about how someone in 2001 to cover his health debt sold 6% of the shares of PLIVA and thus the share of the state from 25 percent to 18 percent, and some more. But why? Simply at that point were such conditions, the state could not be in charge. Someone made decisions the way they are. And so, after this elaborate, look at your colleagues and colleagues, it's undeniable that it was a debt, it's undeniable that these people didn't get the money. It is undeniable that the Constitutional Court has reached a verdict, it is undeniable that all political options are and therefore I am sorry that this is the way the debate in the high House tried to solve the problem. And counterpart Hrelja, who was a direct participant of the process, said nicely that one process he was, I will not say that he was bad, counterpart Vidovic, was as then minister offered a concept that did not prove to be good, but cost the state quite a lot. But then, that I can't and won't, don't mind telling me that SDP and counterpart Vidovic made a bad move. Because he wanted to solve what he wanted to solve the HDZ. But obviously from all the knowledge that they were, and conversations with legal experts, it was said that if we want to prevent lawsuits before Croatian courts and the International Court in Strasbourg, it can only be resolved individually. And I said in my replica, then Croatia was in a stand-by arrangement that started the government before the then government because it simply wouldn't have a second chance and I won't criticise the previous government because simply to appear on the international financial market, it had to get from someone green light, and that's the world's police officer, the IMF and the World Bank. I want to be correct here. And I'm saying all of this for the simple reason that in this high house, it's only being discussed with arguments and facts. And that's why I'm saddened when in one of the topics that we've all been about when you've made decisions, you've politically agreed, discussed this way today the way we're discussing. Speaking of which, from 2003 to 2008, the deficit grew, that means telling all the colleagues who voted and adopted the budget here, you lie. Deficit 2003, 5.9, 2008. 0.8%. It's simply a fact that here in this high house was adopted with a report on the implementation of the state budget. And why are we doing this? Today when it's practically all over. The easiest thing to do is to take things out of the context of time and space and tell those people who got the money, is, it could have been one way or the other. It's just that today you have as much money in the world as you want. Today is the time of historically low interest rates. Today, Croatia is a member of the EU, today there is much open in Croatia that has not been possible in these times. At that time Croatian banks couldn't, a consortium of Croatian banks couldn't raise together funds for several billion kunas to settle debt either state-owned companies or state-owned budgets. But what Hrelja's colleague was saying, he was a direct participant, I was in a certain way indirect, because it went through the Ministry of Economy which at that point led to pension care. It was simply then that you couldn't do it and you couldn't finance it from the budget. To finally find out the funding model she told us, that's the income of the state budget below the line, it doesn't go down with that deficit, but with that you could finance the current deficit, so we're going to include it in your deficit. So that's what the IMF did. And it's all in official documents that exist in the CNB, in the ministry, and I don't see why you're making this up. Why here to say someone did something under the grain? If there's a store on the London grain market, it's an honor. I don't know where you could trade stock. Why did someone buy those shares later in 1960, sell 2800? When you're on the stock market, you can't tell anyone what he's gonna do with his assets anymore. INA employees averaged 900 kuna on average, and they sold 2800 each. If it hadn't been for those transactions, they'd never have come to 49%. But that's a theme for other things. But when you have no arguments for something then... in a very ugly way to treat fellow Members of the congregation, to make a mountain of falsehoods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And unfortunately, it has become a feature of the debate in this House lately. Because believe me, in 2002, when we were against the INA Privatisation Act, we didn't talk to colleagues who proposed the law. But colleagues and colleagues, look at the INA Privatisation Act that was passed in 2002. It says there that Croatia must sell those remaining 25% at the time of Croatia's entry into the EU because at that moment it should not have more than 25% under special law. Has anyone at the time of Croatia's entry into the Union offered this High House amendments and additions to the INA Privatisation Act? It's not. But in 2010, I was then Deputy Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, and I suggested that the HEP Privatisation Act be put out of effect. It's a fact, it's true, and that law was passed in 2002. And I just want to say at the end of this debate that I've just never debated in this House without arguments and without facts or in the future. And I'm gonna stay away from fighting people who want to, I'm just not gonna use the hard words of this assembly space, this high house pushed there simply where it doesn't belong. Because we must not forget that, to sit here, 15,000 Croats gave me lives and throughout history that I don't speak. And when we want to be unworthy of this place where we sit, we have to remember that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43987	Thank you too, Mr. Shucker. You have five replicas. The first replica, Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43988	Well, Your Honor, Mr. Shucker, I'm glad you've figured out your debate this way. Perhaps the only thing missing in your debate is that we must say that neither the coalition government disputed at any moment in 2011 in the pre-election campaign, nor during that anything that was designed in the realisation of the compensation to fulfil its obligation, that no one here was running away from responsibility. And after all, the damage to this energy, the bad energy. In the end, we see, we have a project in front of us that everyone respects and no one has turned their backs on, and everyone has been working equally warmly in continuity. And this is a multi-government continuity project. He began to solve it, not to talk about the causes now, when the problem arose, he began to be solved by HDZ, continued by the coalition government. Here's HDZ's government left to eventually close that fund. But one dimension perhaps you're not all aware of here one dimension of this project is in the next. Mr. Shuker, in 2005, there was a TV show to the panda today, "Open", I don't know if it was "Face-to-Face" or what it was called and voted for, the public voted on it. You know how they voted against the realisation of this fund or whether you believe that Croatian pensioners will be compensated, or that they will repay their debt to the pensioners. All 7% said he believed, 93% said he didn't believe So it's nice to do what people don't expect. [[/Intruder Radin: Thank you. Thank you.]] This is where governments and policies prove themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43989	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you, sir. Mr. Shucker's reply. [[The Hrelja raid: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43990	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of the Hill, so the logical thing is that you can't object to a government that's come for something that's been done before. If they were both political and something silently supporting the project, if they were aware of the facts, because when the IPO INA was, no one from the SDP yelled and gravitated around that it wasn't. It was just a fact. So, you can't be politically incorrect and now someone else has come and now everything you've done until yesterday is no good, now like this, now like that. So it's just a fact. Because all of us together when we passed the Retirement Fund Act, we said it was a model. At the moment we said it was model A and B, we said someone would get the money right away, and someone would do it for the next six or seven years with a team and a team. And the logical thing was that it exceeded the mandate of one government, exceeded two mandates of one government. And then the logical thing is that if someone continues politically, and they have to keep it simple so that you have political correctness towards it and that you do not object to it. Say someone financed it anyway, so let's see how those money came into the fund. So if someone made a deposit for something and took up credit, then later the state was able to make a commitment to the loan, and there was no funding directly from the budget. But I say in this House are adopted documents, let's look at them and simply tell the public who's telling the truth. But I'm glad that all the political options when they made this decision were complicated to do so. Someone tried it one way. That proved ineffective. However, the truths for the colleagues of the Hrelja those 6% plus 100 kuna which was one of the models are still being paid off so that unfortunately that debt of the pensioners due to one failed attempt will cost far more than what it is. But that's how we solved several hundred thousand people who were on that list.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43991	Thank you. Mr. Maras, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43992	Thank you very much, fellow Shucker. To say that we all agreed on the whole procedure based on the consent of the law is simply not true. So the law doesn't say how it's going to be financed and funded. It was a decision at the moment at which the government needed to secure the money. So don't tell the Croatian public here that we agreed to the models of raising money that was in the period I was talking about earlier. No, we agreed on that, that pensioners should be compensated and that injustice should be corrected. And that's why we voted and that's why we'll keep voting. And it's very ugly what you're trying to do, every criticism and dissent to declare and discredit, as if that's something illegal in this House, and yet you're still calling for war and death. It's below the border, Mr. Shuker. You can't take away my right to criticise the moves you've been making, no matter when they've been, and to call on the dead in the Homeland War. Well, I mean, it's really outrageous. Well, I've been chosen here to speak and to say that it wasn't right and that I don't think it was right. If I kept my mouth shut here and praised what you did. So I'd be critical of the people who chose me here, so don't expect me to do it, and don't make it sound like everything you say is true, and someone else who says everything is false and false. Because everything you say is true, then we're in 2008. In 2009, they wouldn't feel the crisis at all. Well, that's how you tell us, it won't hurt us, or it'll be a little breeze. I remember exactly how you and Sanader explained it to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43993	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43994	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, I can't think of anything. I've raised my word. [[Intruder Radin: Comrade Shuker, I give you my word.]] Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Maras, I haven't given a single word of thought to forbid you from speaking. However, your replica is the best indication that what I've said is true. Because if there was anything false about what I said, you would have looked back at any information and said it was incorrect. Yeah, I didn't say that when we made the decision, oh, that we'd pay the pensioners back and that it went through the pension fund, that it was said then, that it would go on such and such a model. They were looking for models, unfortunately, that would turn out to be the only option at the moment. But I said, look at the debate when he... IPO INA and IPO HT in which colleagues and colleagues, the truth works, on the IPO of HT participated 358 thousand and 46 Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're given the opportunity to buy shares. About 44 thousand Croatian citizens participated in the IPO INA. They were given the opportunity to buy shares at a time when the standard of Croatian citizens was relatively high, it was 2006, 2007, when it was the time of the economic lift of the Republic of Croatia. That's the facts. And I'd be happy if the two of us would talk about that kind of data without these political plantings. I'd be happy. And that's why I'm saying, after your replica, I'm convinced that my debate was 100% correct, because you haven't tried to slow down any of the facts, not one fact. And these are the facts of colleagues and colleagues, which I told you, which you can check in official documents of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, underneath the grain is not sold on the London Stock Exchange, HDZ has not sold any shares to Molu, not a single one, unlike the SDP that sold 25% of the shares to INA Molu.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43995	Thank you very much for keeping time accurate. Mr. Babic asked for a replica he has the right to do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43996	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Shuker, you were actually talking about the political circumstances and the time when certain decisions were made. It is good that you have now said this in the end, although I did not replicate it, that it is known for the sale of shares of INA by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the fact is that in 200 years, the Law on the privatisation of INA and HEP was passed. It is then made possible for Croatian citizens, but also for potential investors, the purchase of 17.25 shares, citizens, no. If I'm a good learner, if I'm not, you correct me. The fact is also, that it is owned by Hungarians, has increased it by about 17%. So it wasn't the government that sold those shares, it was those shares that were sold by citizens. I think I heard you correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43997	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43998	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic, in the INA Privatisation Act, you have exactly how they will be implemented. So 255 strategic partners, then a percentage to be offered to Croatian citizens, defenders and former and current INA employees. It states in paragraph 4 that at the time of Croatia's entry into the EU, Croatia must not have more than 25% of the INA shares, and at the time of its entry into the EU, a special law that will be adopted in the Croatian Parliament will define how to privatise these 255. But what keeps going through the law, which is a strategic partner. The strategic partner was not chosen by HDZ, but chosen by the one who sold 25% of the shares. It's facts and it's true. The SDP, HNS, HSS and IDS, they acted in power in 2002 and HSLS was then in the coalition, but look, it was such a political decision, it should be respected. Just as other political decisions need to be respected. However, the fact is that HDZ has not sold any shares to MOL and is not either INA employees or anyone else or this one or that one sold, however, at the end of the day there is no 50%. And I'm honestly surprised that the government doesn't invite those 6.1% of institutional investors to go to the assembly together and make some decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u43999	Thank you very much. Next replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44000	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Shuker, was there anything about pension funds and liabilities to people who were receiving pensions, whether it was transparent or non-transparent, it is now a minor problem. The fact is that people were damaged, the fact is that we're numerous of our resources from the INA that began the White Night Government of the SDPs and ended HDZ or telecommunications that were vice versa, started HDZs, and ended up handing over SDPs to foreign hands, these are facts. However, pensioners earned their incomes and sought models, but the fund suffered great burdens because our national wealth, and of course other problems encountered during the privatisation of job losses, robbery and no one answered. The fact that our system allowed examples of Agrokor 10 billion kuna using bonds without cover, that there... was stability of the financial Republic of Croatia and the CNB did not respond, the finance minister also who did not know what year it was so I can't know if it was you or someone else or third, but the fact was that Agrokor 10 billion were allowed to destabilize the state without currency and cover, of course. A coup on monetary policy and no one answers, that's facts. And today we have a problem with whether the Agrockor situation is going to affect the Peace Fund, too, and now we don't know what's going to happen. But these are all the mistakes that have been made and of course the Peace Fund has come where it has come from. So our numerous natural resources potentials like I said telecommunications, INA and other companies were destroyed. In my area of the Square, the Jujuplasty, the Dalmatian girl, the auto transport was all going a little bit into private hands. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44001	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44002	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bull, if you had said you shouldn't have sold it you could have solved it that way, I wouldn't have replicated it to you at all. Because you just shouldn't have, I'm just today because of those stories you shouldn't have said where the money went. So for this privatisation part you know where the money went and everyone else could come and buy and sign up to buy a package of shares of INA. So it wasn't tied up, so it's a little emulsified that someone can do it, and someone can't. So whoever had the money he could buy and that's the facts. And I told you that 44 thousand citizens participated in the IPO INA process and 358 thousand in the IPO process. And when you talk about Agrokor, watch to use certain financial terms, it's not very dangerous to specify them. So in Agrokor something happened in 2014, so certain financial products that we talked about yesterday when we talked about fees etc., I said to banks are money goods that sell. They found some new product that they can, and now about, why someone didn't react in 2014 when they jumped the rapid traffic factoring companies. But you need to know who controls the factoring of society. You have one agency set up that controls the non-banking financial sector. So let's not push ourselves toward this and according to that, we know exactly who's supposed to be doing what. Someone took some steps and did what was done. But I'm saying that I wouldn't publicize it for a simple reason that none of us have enough information to talk. And at this point, the Agrokora situation is pretty sensitive and therefore we have to be very careful because let's not talk about Agrokor, we're talking about 46 or 50 thousand employees. Just one sentence, please, employees of the suppliers of Agrokor. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] I think they're first of all... /The speakers are telling us at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44003	Thank you very much. You have another replica, so you'll be able to add. Mr. Vlaovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44004	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Shuker. Here is the HSS club and I will personally support the Report on the Management of the Pension Fund because it has shown some sort of state as it is and there is no reason not to accept it and I support your debate in the context of correcting injustice against the pensioners. But it should be said that it is necessary to correct the injustices both against civil servants and tenants, teachers, teachers, our Croatian police officers because they too have been limited salaries and many of them have also sued the Republic and received courts and we see that at that point it was not all in line with the famous Croatian regulations and I will always stand by both workers and pensioners. And I volunteered for the replica since a large number, somewhere over 40,000 pensioners in the Republic of Croatia retired from agriculture whose pensions were 500, 600, 700 kuna. It has often been said here in the Croatian Parliament and in the Government that a solution should be found, it has also been said that the poverty threshold for Eurostat is somewhere around 1800 kuna, that no pension in the Republic should be below the poverty threshold, given the growth of GDP and growth in the economy, is there a chance that you can also discuss with your government that this problem and injustice should be corrected and, of course, correct if the government can collect most of them in the INA. Why don't you sit down, because you said that you were surprised why you didn't sit down to correct these problems both against the cops and the pensioners, as well as the INA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44005	Thank you, too. The answer to my colleague Shucker's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44006	Thank you very much. We've gone from something, but it can meet us in the future. So at the time of the withdrawal of taxes on cadastrian income, which was tax reform in '93, and stopped charging in '95. years of virtual control or this way of retirement of pensioners who did so from agriculture have practically gone beyond any control. You know well that in the 1990s, the counties alone for the health of unsecured nursing households in agriculture have singled out an average per county depending on the size between 10 and 20 million kuna and 25 million kuna. That's a fact. And at this point we don't just have a pension problem, it can be solved at the time when someone estimates that they have enough money with some minimum state pension that... but you have a problem and social health insurance and a number of other things. Because look, in a few days we're going to be discussing the business of mandatory pension funds, what do you think these 5% that's being singled out is enough to guarantee tomorrow someone's pension. But look, we're fighting over some things here, and now that you're, who wants to make a decision in the future, you're putting on some big burden because you don't recognize the arguments that everyone agreed on at some time, you're putting a burden on him that's very dangerous to make some kind of decision that he just wants to go to a problem to meet and not wait for the problem to hit him in the head. Because at the moment when there was a pension reform and when it... People over 40 years of age have been told that they have to go to the second pillar of retirement and said that within 4 or 5 years of separation into the second pillar of retirement will practically go to 10%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, because of the situation in the budget, the economic crisis left them at 5%. And today when we talk about 84 billion assets of compulsory pension funds, it seems a lot. But when we take it that soon it will start spending more significantly on pension payments and then something else will happen that the pension deficit in the state budget will be reduced but there will be payment commitments here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44007	Thank you, Mr. Shuker, thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas. We continue with individual debates. We have two more individual discussions. First Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44008	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. For the sake of respect of this House of Commons and after the vote, I will seek to minimise my replica. Actually in a few things...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44009	It's not a replica, it's an individual debate. And you can cut her off if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44010	Well, I won't, okay. In most parts, I repeat myself with Mr. Hreja and I think he's very good and much better perhaps explain than I would in this individual debate right now. But because of the chronology of pension events or rather because of the pension reform itself since the '90s, I'm just going to have a few data relating to this pension fund. So founded in '93. The year HPB Invest managed, what I've said since '90, '93, should be said. For years, everything that's been happening to us has actually been conditioned by one part of the things that have been related to the retirement debt. Then the fact is that a large number of employees fell but increased, the number of pensioners increased. Since 1998, the government has actually determined the first actual value of these pensions, of course until then. This coordination occurred, the debt to the pensioners and, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, which was spoken of by Mr Hrelja from 12.0.5 1998, was compensated by compensation from 2006 to 2013, amounting to 10.3 billion kuna. In addition to the compensation under this Law on the transfer of State budget funds to pension and disability funds from 1.1.07.2018 that famous pension allowance of 100 kuna plus 6% was also paid. Since 01.01.1999, in the framework of the Peace Reform, there has been a new Pension Insurance Act, and this is where this problem also arises, as Mr. Hrelja has said about the actually calculated period, which gradually increased from three years to 2000 from the 10 most favourable years you've talked about to that entire working life. But then it increased, so we didn't say penalization from those 6.65 to 20.4% for life. This initial calculation of the current value of pensions is according to the level of pensions since 19998 then by making certain decisions related to pensioners, which we have spoken of since 2003 for 750 thousand pensioners so-called. The old pensioners on behalf of the special supplement have been paid... billions of kuna and actually that average supplement was somewhere between 160 and 170 kuna. In order to compensate old pensioners for this period from 01.01.2000, pensions from 0.5 to 20% were increased due to these removals in the difference between pensions achieved in different periods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under the law in 2003, 2.4 billion kuna was paid. So because of these two increases, these old pensioners were paid $3.9 million, as Mr. Shuker also spoke of. This pension fund has enabled its members to choose the compensation model that A and B were also talking about here and I will skip it as such to shorten the time but what was not said was actually calculated and allocated interest to fund members of the €2.3 billion in such a way that the amount of interest was divided by the amount of compensation then and then the amount obtained is actually attributed to the amount of compensation. And according to one kuna, actually, the compensation was about 0.19 kuna, or 19.9 almost 20%. In 19.11.2010, the government made a decision on the transfer of these regular shares of HT amounting to 2.9 billion kuna. At the end of 2012, 6 wars of compensation per model B amounted to 700 million kuna and 6 other wars of 117 million kuna were paid. So, without repeating this, it continues to appear in the report, where at the end of 2015, another 180 million was paid as a one-time monetary income to users in compulsory pension insurance, and this is linked to this generational solidarity in accordance with the government's decision. Now, to conclude, the government must have given its maximum in paying back the pension debt. The question arises whether this is enough, whether it could be more, whether it was fair enough, what are also asked about the queen of the Croatian pensioners and the Croatian Retired Union. Of course, that we should always try to improve the status of our pensioners, try to make their pensions bigger, and we will certainly be able to make it a better economic situation and think towards all pensioners in the Republic to have a dignified age because all of us present one day will come and have the status of pensioners. I hope so, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44011	Thank you very much. Mr. Granny, you have three replicas. First Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44012	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say that the pensioners are significantly damaged by this system of these pension funds, because the basic assumption or premise of the law was that the property of the funds will grow over time, that it will be economic growth, that the value of the shares will go up. Today, however, we have a situation where the assets of all the funds fall, that businesses fall behind each other, and that, in the future, they wait for us towards even the government itself, 25% less pensions, and the question of what will these people live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44013	Thank you. The answer to Mr. Babic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44014	So, if you were Mr. Pernar here today in the assembly, then you could have listened to it since 9.30 this debate about the Retirement Fund Report. You've actually missed the topic, and what you're saying is you're not saying, you're replacing actually a mandatory pension fund with these funds related to capitalised savings. It's a mistake, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44015	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrelja has another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44016	Dear Babic, do you know when the compensation models were negotiated how there were 2 billion and 300 million kunas in the first place? When model A and model B were offered, the question was raised and what about the delay in the decision of the Constitutional Court from 1998 to 2004 when the first payment took place. And then at the table was offered 2 billion and 300 million kuna, so it wasn't 19%, but it was 19%, 97 interest on these founding units, or on the units in the fund. So, the second thing I wanted to say is that 100 kuna and 6% also continued to be paid to everyone and was put into retirement and to those who received compensation and those who did not receive compensation, it was at the time of the adoption of this law somewhere a billion and a half at the level of the year, and today it fell to a billion since nature makes its own, or people die. Also, I have to when we've touched 100 kuna and 6%, I have to say that there are 20,000 pensioners who have never received 10 kuna, 6%, because those who retired in 1998, after 01.06, and they are not covered by the Constitutional Court's decision, and they are excluded from that second supplement of 4 to 27% because they are essentially not new pensioners by reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44017	Thank you, Mr. Hrelja. Mr. Babic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44018	For a little while. True, from '93 to '98, pensions didn't harmonize beyond the law, they were actually with certain regulations, what you said, and according to it, the government of the Republic of Croatia then determined the first actual value of the pension. So, '99. the year was the starting value of those 35.16 points and you are right there, I also know that through the Matica pensioners of Croatia and the Retirement Union of Croatia, which is that there has been no correction to the new pensioners with this current pension value, and that is now actually the main reason for today's 20% difference in the average pensions of these old and new pensioners, which you have said several times today, so there is no point in repeating it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44019	Thank you very much. The last replica, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44020	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic, so 13 billion and so many millions has been paid. But I think what we should say when we discuss this report, and especially when we discuss the 2016 report, no matter how much anyone tries to politicise, as much as anyone tries to collect some political points today, it's a model that's definitely hit. What the alkari would say is, there are no colleagues of Bulja, in the srid, because if you don't have hundreds of thousands of lawsuits, you can talk about promiscuities, then that means that it's hit, and I don't think we have any moral or human rights to talk about today. Because if the taxpayers, so the citizens of the Republic of Croatia paid so much through the budget this way, because if the privatisation money hadn't gone, it would have been a smaller deficit, but the state would have had to do otherwise, but there were no models, and on the other hand Croatian citizens were compensated and they were satisfied. And the taste of the story should be about it. Unfortunately, however, we always want to twist the story here to collect some cheap political points, but people have already learned some things and it's hard to trick them, in the end these local elections have shown the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44021	Thank you very much, Mr. Shucker. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44022	Just for a little while, yeah. Mr. Shuker was saying that in his individual debate, the truth, and we're just doing this again. You said in fact that all governments from the very beginning to the end were aware of the problem with the pensioners, gave their maximum effort and effort then to solve it in the best possible way. Speaking of those real politicians, real politics and politicians is one noble social discipline and what has been heard here today in this House is politicians and they are truly the weeds of Croatian politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44023	Thank you very much. The last speech is Mr. Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44024	Mr. Vice President, I am pleased to see what I can get into the debate after real politicians and hold my discussion, so I, who is here, am trying to contribute to the quality of the debate, the arguments, not to collect cheap political points, but rather to accept political criticism at times, but to make my views very clear. If I may, please, just a little bell, Mr Furio, let it be a little bit of an atmosphere.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44025	.../Intruder Radin: Voters are gathering. We could've cut directly to the vote, but I still wanted you to talk too, so then have an understanding for me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44026	Okay. I always like to talk when it's like that. So, a club of MPs like I said to the SDP and I as a representative will personally support, thank you very much, we will support this report because we think in some way for nearly half a million of our fellow citizens 488 thousand 577 of them were corrected by the injustice that took place during the 1990s when it was '93. In 2013, the government of Nikica Valletić, the HDZ government decided to freeze pensions and decided to wrong the pensioners and God gave them that they had then frozen and privatised themselves, and that we had not even been privatised during the years of war but had decided to correct the injustice and that it had been achieved in the Croatian Assembly by all political parties in order to return the money to the pensioners and about half of the pensioners had chosen a model that had been used to pay faster in two years, and the other half of the pensioners had chosen a model that had expired or expired in the past few years 2013. So on that side no one can be against this and the fundamental difference that has arisen between those who have discussed today is basically how we spent the collection of that money. There is one concept that went for the sale of the most valuable Croatian property most often, and nobody can convince me, and with a certain intention to make use of that moment of raising money. And the second model that we have applied since 2011 in the following year, which said that this could also be done through debt, i.e. when the state stands behind a company that manages the Peace Fund and in a way that enables it and stands as a guarantee that this money will be returned. This first model, which was part of those first years 2005, sixth, seventh, regardless of what some in their debate would say, couldn't otherwise because we had been monitoring the IMF of the World Bank and certain other institutions, I think it could have been different and had to be different. Because if we had listened to what the world institutions have told us and the European Commission would never have passed, for example, a law that regulated the conversion of credit into Swiss francs. Also, for example, at that time, Finance Minister Ivan Shucker could have opted for such a model and not for the transfer of shares to the pension and pension funds and the sale of those shares which then resulted in, unfortunately, we are trying to get to those shares that we sold back then, in particular, the INA shares. [[Intruder Jandroković: My colleagues and colleagues, I beg you a little, let's be correct.]] Although no one in this House has said more this year about what Prime Minister Plenkovic announced, but the story was lost somewhere in the transmission, so it's gone. Lost in translation, no more talking, no more INA being mentioned. But that is why during those years, we have decided to settle this money by selling shares of these companies, which, unfortunately, we no longer have and which will be very difficult to put back into Croatian hands ever again. And another fund, the defense fund was also used to make it so I have to say that it's not true what fellow Shucker said that HDZ didn't sell any shares of the INA. Normally, HDZ didn't because HDZ didn't even have INA shares, so it can't even sell. But the most responsible HDZ members, Jadranka Kosor, Ivo Sanader, ordered the sale of shares of INA in the defence fund. And according to this information that I have one week in the defense fund, we're not going to sell INA shares, and after a week of that 7, 8% of how much INA's defense fund is still sold. Now you tell me if it happened by chance or if the people associated with the government at the time had any influence on it. Maybe it's an accident, maybe all people really changed their minds in seven days. But I think they had to have some incentive, and that's not exactly why my colleague Shucker said earlier that with the INA, with the stocks, watch out HDZ had nothing to do with it. It's simply false and incorrect. And that's why in the future, when we're doing this kind of compensation for making amends in the '90s, and there'll probably be more. You should never again reach for the property of the Republic of Croatia especially for these most valuable companies which, unfortunately, we now have to try to return, and I don't know if we'll succeed. And in these very difficult conditions for discussion, Mr. President, in these very difficult conditions for discussion simply as if it didn't make sense. People are so nervous that at a low start they're waiting for a vote, and I suggest next time they break up, if it takes 10 minutes before people get together, not that this is how people who come in at 12 o'clock or 5 to 12 in the line for the debate just can't hear themselves, let alone everyone in the assembly hear them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44027	My colleague Maras, I agree with you, but this is not a criticism, it is a criticism of both your colleagues and everyone, because no one listens and unfortunately, I beg you, let's finish my colleague Maras, there are two minutes left, and then there will be a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44028	It's a criticism to everyone, as much as a man is thrilled about this presence of a large number of MPs, then that thrill goes away, after you see that people don't actually listen. So, I'd rather not have five people listening to me in the assembly than 150, that would be a lot of holding. That's why I suggest... Next time, stop the debate 10 minutes early, and let's get together and vote. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44029	Thank you. This is what we came up with just before the end of the debate, but a distinguished colleague, Ivana Jakir-Baja, is still going to address the board of directors of the pension fund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44030	In the end, I want to thank everyone for all the representatives in the debate, and about the report on the operation of the pension fund for the period 2010-2015. Since the 2016 report has also been delivered to this home, I would say that this is one introduction to the debate, and on the other hand, since the last war of compensation has been paid in 2013 I expect soon also the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Pension Fund Act. And thank you again in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44031	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're going to go to the vote. Point we had today at the debate: Report on the operation of the Pension Fund from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2015. The applicant is the Management Board of the Pension Fund. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the operation of the Pension Fund is hereby adopted from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2015. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 119 votes in favour, 2 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44033	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.55 HOURS]] Please take your seats. And now we continue as the President of the Parliament said with the point: - Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2015. Carrier: Croatian Foundation for Science. The applicant shall be the Croatian Science Foundation under Article 18. Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. The motion for an act has been delivered to you in boxes. The discussions were conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, and you received the report at the session. The government also delivered an opinion. Does the reporter want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Executive Director of the Croatian Foundation for Science, Hrvoje Mataković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44034	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and counsellors, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for the opportunity to present briefly the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science for 2015. The Croatian Foundation for Science was founded by a special law in December 2001. In accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Croatian Science Foundation of 2012, the body of the Foundation consists of the Management Board and the Executive Director. In addition to the foundation body, the work of the foundation during 2015 included permanent committees and areas, established according to scientific areas, evaluation panels, reviewers and administrations. During 2015, the Management Board adopted a whole series of acts that would list only some of them. The Work Regulations, the 2015 Annual Work Plan and, in particular, I would like to highlight the Strategic Plan of the Croatian Science Foundation for the period 2014 to 2018, which was sent to the Assembly during 2014, but was adopted in mid-April 2015. The revenue from the donations is in 2015. The year amounted to HRK 97.7 million and consisted of the following items. The most significant revenues from the state budget for funding research projects of €74.5 million were also revenues from the state budget for the programme of PhDs and after the PhD of the foundation of €18.6 million, revenues from the state budget for the work of the foundation amounting to €4.4 million, revenues from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for the implementation of the second technology development project financed by the World Bank of 70,333 kuna and revenues from donations from a foreign company... in the amount of 50 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the most part, operating costs, i.e. In 94%, the project funds or the funding of scientific projects and payments for PhDs, which is actually the basic purpose of the foundation. The criteria for the evaluation of project proposals are prescribed by the Management Board of Foundations, and they are adapted in particular to each competition in order to actually reflect the objectives and objectives of this particular programme. The criteria for the evaluation of project proposals are available on the trust's web pages at the same time as the publication of the competition, which increases the transparency of the entire tendering and evaluation process. The general criteria for the evaluation of project proposals are, I'm going to count them now. So these are the scientific quality, the importance of research feasibility, the quality of the promoter and the research environment. Funding of scientific projects during 2015 was next. At the end of 2015, the evaluation process for project proposals reported on research projects and research projects was completed. At this competition where the deadline for the application was in September 2014, we received 414 project proposals, of which 311, that was 75% for the Research Projects programme, and 103, and 25% for the Founding Research Projects programme. After the project was received, i.e. the project proposals have been implemented. In the evaluation process we contacted a total of 221 Croatian scientists and our call to participate in the evaluation process was accepted by 169 who were divided into 26 evaluation panels within 6 scientific areas. In the same evaluation process, 3214 international reviewers were contacted and 939 and 29% of them, respectively, our call turned down 1282 and 40%, respectively, and 993, i.e. 31% didn't answer the call. These data related to the response to the call for review of our projects are in line with the European average where the figures are approximately similar. A total of 412 project proposals were sent to the second round of evaluations. And for them, it was necessary to provide two reviews that were already being submitted by the international reviewers. Following the completion of the same level of evaluation procedure, the evaluation panels carried out the final evaluation and developed a ranking list of project proposals which were then proposed for financing. Based on the evaluation results and recommendations of the evaluation panel, standing committees and areas, as a senior body, have made a recommendation for funding and this recommendation was then sent to the Management Board and, at the end of the whole procedure, made a final decision on financing. Thus, the final decision accepted the financing of 190 projects, of which 59 from natural sciences, 29 from technical, 18 from humanistic, 26 from social, 41 from biomedicine and health and 17 from biotechnical sciences. In addition to these two programmes, a competition for partnership and research programme was opened in December 2014. This programme seeks to attract additional extra budgetary investment in scientific research in the following way, so that the Partnership and Research Programme supports joint research between public universities or public research i.e. the scientific institutes and extra-financial sources of funding from the country, from abroad. This can be and is expected primarily to be private enterprises but also local administration units, self-government, foreign foundations and/or agencies that finance research, foreign scientific organisations and the like. The total budget of this programme was 15 million, and only 6 applications arrived at the tender. Of these 6 applications, 3 were from the field of technical science and 3 were from the interdisciplinary field of science. During the evaluation, i.e. Finally, two project proposals were adopted during the final evaluation. The Foundation also launched funding for young researchers, i.e. We have opened a competition for the second time called “The project of the development of the career of young researchers, the education of new doctors of science.” This is also one of the strategic goals of the Croatian Foundation for Science, which is one of the strategic goals of the Croatian Foundation for Science. The Strategic Plan of the Croatian Foundation for Science provides for the financing of the development of young researchers' careers as well as the active promotion of mobility from academic to economic sectors, and therefore the foundation, depending on the resources available from the state budget, finances 200 to 250 new students each year through a doctoral study to achieve a stable level of about 1000 PhDs in the foundation support system. In this contest the foundation selects the best mentors who then have the opportunity to hire a doctor, and the cost of their salary is covered by the foundation. The contest opened in September 2015, and the foundation received a total of 251 applications from the mentor candidates. As with project proposals in these previously listed tenders, the maximum number of applications was received from natural sciences, i.e. 86 of them. Then follow technical sciences with 64 applications, biomedicine and health care with 40, social sciences with 29, biotechnical sciences with 18, and humanities with 14 applications. Of the 251 candidates reported, 212 and 84.5% of mentor candidates are leaders or co-workers on projects financed by the Croatian Foundation for Science. 36 and 14.3%, respectively, were actually reported leaders of international projects while 3 of them and 1.2% were engaged in centres of excellence. If we look at the distribution according to the applicant's parent institutions, we see that the most applied candidates for mentors are 49.8% employed by the University of Zagreb. Then followed by the Ruđer Bošković Institute as our largest scientific institute with 17.1%) and other public institutes with 14.3% and then followed by the University of Rijeka, Split, Osijek and the University of Zadar. The Foundation ended the evaluation process for mentor candidates in November, but the competition by the end of 2015 was not fully completed because no funds were provided for the employment of young researchers. The funds are only provided by the state budget for 2016, and only 158 PhDs have been employed since September 2016. The increase in the number of applications shows that it is necessary to increase the resources for the recruitment of young researchers because their number in the system has been falling significantly, and for a long time there has been no significant employment, which, unfortunately, will, over several years, create huge problems for the academic community in Croatia and for the continuation and also for science, or research. In addition to these contests, the foundation has opened and a competition called... a story for excellent and young scientists in the field of pharmacies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This tender was opened on the basis of a grant contract concluded between the Croatian Science Foundation and ABVI pharmaceutical company worth 50,000 kuna. The award was intended for excellent young scientists to conduct research that finance innovation in the field of pharmacies with the aim of fostering innovation development and further cooperation between industry and public scientific institutions in the field of pharmacies. Research for 12 months is also funded. The competition was first published in 2013 and the second time the competition was opened in June 2015. And the winner of the award, so for 2015 he was Dr. Matija Gredičak of the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia launched a programme called the Unity Fund in 2007 with the help of knowledge. The fund was initially supported by the World Bank loan under the Croatian Technological Development Project. In February 2014, the Croatian Science Foundation took over from the Ministry of Science the implementation of this fund in a way that we signed an agreement on the transfer of funds to the Croatian Science Foundation. So in 2015, this fund opened a competition under the Program of Scientific Cooperation, i.e. Support named across the border supported research projects in Croatia, which include cooperation with the Croatian Scientific and Professional Diaspora. The objectives of support across the border are to enable Croatian scientists and experts who live and work abroad to start and establish scientific cooperation with domestic and foreign scientists and experts who live and work in Croatia, but also to encourage Croatian institutions and companies to use the potential of Croatian and scientific professional diaspora. The tender was opened from March to June 2015 and received 71 project proposals, funding contracts were signed after the evaluation process was implemented, for 9 projects worth 11.3 million kuna. Their implementation began on 15 December 2015 and ends on 15 December 2017. In its business during 2015, the Foundation financed and monitored a total of 449 projects totalling 320 million kuna. Of which 332 projects are implemented in our biggest programme, research project. 97 projects in the Programme set up research projects, 6 projects in the Programme for Economic Cooperation called Partnership Research, 3 projects in the Programme of Cooperation Research Projects, 3 in the Programme for the Establishment of Support, 3 in the Research Project Foundation and 5 projects in the Research Networking Programme. At the same time, through the project of the development of the career of young researchers, gross salary was financed, 176 PhDs, and in the framework of the Unity Fund, with the help of knowledge that I have recently cited, funded and monitored 27 projects totaling around 32 million kuna. As regards international cooperation as one of the key factors that guarantees the improvement of the quality of scientific institutions, as recognised in Europe, but also in Croatia. The Foundation aims to strengthen international cooperation, i.e. internationalisation of action and programme. The Croatian Foundation for Science is therefore a member of the Sence Europe association in 2014. Sence Europe is an organisation that brings together European institutions that finance scientific research, and actively participates in the work of the organisation itself, as well as its working groups. The aim of Sence Europe is to promote the common interests of all Member States' institutions and to support members in improved scientific research in Europe. As regards international cooperation, i.e. the procurement of funds between national sources in June 2015, a framework agreement was signed between the Swiss Federal Council and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the Swiss-Croatian Co-operation Programme to reduce economic and social inequalities. Under this programme, a donation amounting to 45 million Swiss francs, i.e. around 326 million kuna, has been provided. And for projects to be implemented from 2016-2024. Among other things, two activities to be carried out by the Croatian Foundation for Science are foreseen. One will be implemented in cooperation with the Swiss Science Foundation, in order to ensure the preconditions for scientific research projects, and the other will be in cooperation with the Swiss partner EPFL... which will provide an incentive environment for the scientific career in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian Foundation for Science continues to consider it necessary to encourage a wide range of research and development activities and programmes that would integrate Croatian scientists into the European Research Area. Since the European Research Area is the best integrated countries that invest most in funding science at national level. It is through regular competitions of trust and funding of best projects and rejuvenation of systems through the money of the employment of PhDs that Croatia can and must raise the quality of scientific research, ensure that our best scientists conduct their research and develop their careers in Croatia, as well as attract excellent young foreign scientists and ultimately increase the competitiveness of domestic research groups in European scientific programmes and funds. As in most EU Member States, which finance scientific research through national foundations, financial resources as well as the allocation of funds for individual trust problems, depend primarily on the resources provided from the state budget. Unfortunately, for several years, it has continued to worry about the decline in investment in scientific research, and the Foundation's Management Board has repeatedly warned that financial resources below critical levels are sufficient for the development of competitive scientific research, but also insufficient for the development of the career of young researchers, which in the long run reduces Croatia's competitiveness in the European Research Environment. Unfortunately, according to the UNESCO report on science for 2015, Croatia has been one of the few countries in Europe in which R & D allocations have steadily decreased since 2004. In funding from the state budget, the foundations also seek to increase part of the extra- budget financing of scientific research and to provide funding from European and other international funds. So the foundation has been actively involved in finding new opportunities, withdrawing EU funds, and will in particular complete its budget through the European Social Fund to provide funding for the Development Programme in the career of young researchers, as well as for the Cooperation Programmes with the Croatian Scientific Diaspora. Finally, however, it is not possible to maintain the quality of international competitive scientific projects and the development of young researchers' careers with state funding of only 100 million kuna per year. The lack of budgetary funding is not possible, meaning to replace here with extra budget funds such as grants and European funds because they are not primarily long-term and cannot intend to maintain the institutional stability of the National Scientific System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44035	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you. Does the Prime Minister want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first one appeared on behalf of the Mosta, the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, the distinguished representative Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44036	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Matakovic. A bridge of independent lists will support the Annual Report of the Science Foundation for 2015. The bridge is also an important work of the foundation in the previous assembly of colleagues from HSLS and the Most Foundation was awarded around 7.5 million kuna additional funds, which is not much, but is one message that we have important work of foundation and science. However, we have three well-intentioned remarks on the work of the trust, i.e. about the report. One refers to the evaluation process, the other to the project of the development of the career of young researchers and the education of new doctors of science and the third social and scientific impact of funding. We believe that the process of evaluation of the project's application is so set that the Management Board is in control of the evaluation process and thus the process of assigning projects to the Management Board to determine the forms, criteria and appoint the Standing Committee. The Standing Committees then appoint evaluation panels that conduct the pre-separation and send the same level of evaluation to the reviewers of their choice. In pre-locations, around 25% of projects are rejected on the basis of internal criteria and sad evaluations. Prelocation of such a form is an unusual mechanism, for example. the prestigious European research council grants do not have a pre-location but the evaluation of the project is based on international historical evaluation. The report does not discuss how conflict of interest is avoided. A foreign example of good practice is the Unity Fund, with the help of knowledge that has so fully implemented projects in its first cycle, and in part until 2014 when it was transferred to the jurisdiction of the Foundation. Pre-location under the control of the foundation does not create savings, a quarter is denied but unfortunately opens up the possibility of conflict of interest which is particularly expressed in small areas such as Croatia. The second comment is on the development of the career of young researchers and the education of new doctors of science. Employing new doctorates, a scientific spring through the foundation, should be the cornerstone of the refreshing of scientific staff, but as a result of several errors and authorityal approaches, there have been several major employment problems. First-generation doctorates from 1.1.2015 are not employed at the workplace and are paid by the doctorate in accordance with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, as stated in the report, but at the place of the expert associate. That's when the foundation hired the doctors to do the same work as their colleagues, but for less pay. It did not bring any savings to around 6% of the net salary, but it unnecessarily exposed the system to the potential of the lawsuit and created injustice in the system. The contracts that were made were also in breach of the Labour Act and until the direct intervention of the trade unions of the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports and the Ministry of Labour and Pension System was the only solution to the termination of the labour contract for two years. Therefore, this system does not work well even though it leads to some innovation compared to the old systems and it is commendable. The third and final observation is that the social scientific impact of funding is. The role of the Trust Management Board is to strategically direct science funding in line with national priorities. As part of the annual report of the Foundation, it does not give concrete distribution at any time by projects of national interest Stan area and area of the issue of national identity or comment on the expected impact of the implementation projects, it is not discussed how funding contributes to the national strategy or what is the context in terms of eu ranking. The overall report does not have sufficient relevant quantitative, qualitative indicators to be achieved or planned. Insufficiently discusses the number of patents and the number of scientific publications or collaboration with industry in the context of invested finances. From the annual report, it is impossible to assess the contribution of the foundation to financing the Croatian research space, but only that the foundation produces the activities it should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44037	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the next club I can't take the impression and I have to mention how we all usually drill into our chests how important science is and that only science can get us out of a difficult situation, etc., and this class with letters and figures seven (7) MPs in the hall, well with me eight, which points to the position unfortunately of our colleagues on science. We're clearly heart-to-heart for science, but that's not what you'd say. I had to say it or I'd have to go out on my elbow. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That's exactly what I wanted to start with when I counted that we were eight. I also have one comment that I think would be useful if, apart from the representatives of the Croatian Foundation for Science here and the representative of the Ministry of Science and Education, it was almost pointless to discuss, and there is no representative of the Ministry of Science and Education. Otherwise, at first I can say that we will support this report with another remark that we are discussing the 2015 report, and 2016 is long gone. Perhaps we should have made an effort when this report was too late to have today's 2016 report so we could discuss both reports together. What should be said is that this form of foundation began working somewhere in April 2013 when it was decided to change the way of funding scientific activities in Croatia and that the Croatian Foundation for Science became the central place of funding science with the primary goal of leaving science to scientists and that politics only has the role of supervision. So scientists decide what and how to develop science and politicians try to secure as much money as possible for science and to monitor whether that money is spent transparently and to improve science. We heard from the opening statement, so maybe there's no need for me to repeat all those numbers. In addition, 449 projects totalling 320 million kuna were financed. It should be pointed out that following some initial problems, initial errors in the steps during 2015 have been further improved procedures for receiving and evaluating applications for research projects, the education of PhDs, the manner of reporting has been simplified, and thus the foundation responded to the observations of the scientific community that were related to what it was in 2014. The transparency, evaluation of the decision on the financing of the best-valued projects and the monitoring of the responsibility of the use of money entrusted to the Foundation for the achievement of those tasks set up before the Foundation and as indicated in this report. What was especially in 2015 and the new challenge was monitoring the projects, as the first periodic reports of previously approved funded foundation projects began to arrive. It should be said that despite the lack of funding, the foundation has quite well met its role as the central bodies providing financial support and stronger and human resources and procedures and thus helps positioning science as a driver of positive economic and social change, which we keep repeating here in the Croatian Parliament and when we bring the budget and when we discuss education and science but ultimately remains the problem of how to provide it through adequate funding. So I will repeat again the Croatian Foundation for Science takes the central place in the financing of scientific research and we can all agree that Croatia must insist on increasing investment in science and higher education in the coming period because in all our strategic guidelines and documents we have defined that education and science is a key factor in Croatia's economic development. What is special, which I would like to highlight in this report, and as regards the monitoring of the work of the foundation and everything that is mentioned in this document and what was highlighted by the introduction of the Croatian Foundation for Science and the colleague of Sladolev in his debate, several things that we would like to draw particular attention to. So it is a pity and we regret that the budget has not yet provided the funds according to the 2013 plan when the aim was to make this kind of science funding in Croatia up to about 750 projects in permanent financing. So that was the plan when in 2013, this kind of funding of science was established in the Republic of Croatia, we see that we are somewhere on 449 projects. What should certainly be pointed out is that the Croatian Foundation for Science as a foundation needs a little more attention and effort to devote and secure funds that do not come only from the state budget. I regret that still the only real donation somehow external was the company's donation... in which I myself participated in 2013 and I think that this was a good example of how a stronger relationship with the economy could be ensured. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the science-connection programme with the economy cannot yet be overestimated as too successful and should certainly be potential for all that the foundation is doing in the next period. What we can hear from scientists themselves, which is that administrative procedures are still sometimes rigid and sometimes require too much involvement of scientists in paperwork, which is the most common observation of scientists and that scientists do not like to waste time on paperwork. The report did not reveal the number of projects accepted by individual institutions in the RS Science System, which would certainly be an important and interesting data. Some scientists also commented on the process of reviewing the Croatian Science Foundation, especially in cases where the evaluations or assessments in two external reviews are diametrically opposite. At the same time, the third review is not possible, nor is it taken into account in any way by scientists' remarks. So if we have really diametrically opposite two external reviews I think we should try and get to the third review to see actually where the problem is. In this connection, the process of estimating the quality, procedures and procedures of the Croatian Foundation for Science and the evaluation of the quality of the evaluators used by the Foundation should be established. So it's important to see how they do their job. What I wish to draw attention to in time to the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science and the Ministry that members of the Governing Council were elected at the beginning of 2013, that their term of office takes five years so that it should be kept in mind that as soon as possible the procedure for the selection of new members of the Management Boards so that there is no delay in the procedures before the Croatian Foundation for Science. Lastly, I will quote six objectives set by the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology. So in the field of science and technology, the strategy sets out 6 objectives: 1. the rapid launch of changes in the system of higher education and science, 2nd international competitive and public universities and public scientific institutes in Croatia's highly educated research space that create new scientific, social, cultural and economic value, 3rd environment that enables and promotes interaction and transfer mechanisms of cooperation of the research community with innovative economies and social activities. 4. universities, universities and scientific institutes involved in smart specialization processes and related guidelines for technological development. 5. National research innovation infrastructures with public access, including and linking to European infrastructures, the 6th growth in R & D investments, the improvement of the public funding system and the promotion of business and social sector investment in research and development, which I have talked about and in my debate. And these six objectives are defined as the 28 measures that need to be taken to achieve these objectives. And I'm just going to look back at the sixth goal again. I will therefore repeat the growth in R & D investment, by improving the public funding system and by encouraging investment in the business and social sector in R & D essentially refers to measures to achieve an increase in R & D of 1.4% of GDP, of which 0.7% through state and public funding, of which 0.7% through state and public funding and by general refocusing expenditure towards research towards research and innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises, and by strengthening the financing of development research conducted by the business sector from other national and foreign sources seek to achieve a total investment of 2% of GDP in 2020. So in 2011, that percentage was 0.75, 2014. 0.81 and our goal was to reach 2% by 2020, with half of that growth coming from the economy and half from the state budget. Here, this is the task that here 8 of us should encourage the Croatian Parliament to ensure when budgeting if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44039	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44040	So here is my colleague Jovanovic, although I was going to say this later in the presentation, but I still have the need to stress it again and agree with you, I would refer to that part of your presentation in which you spoke about the need to strengthen public investment in scientific research, and I would like to say that we need a stronger integration of science and economy, because this is something that will, among other things, contribute to the competitiveness and then to Croatia's competitiveness both in European and then in a wider world scale and remind that the foundation is founded with a fundamental purpose of providing support for the development of basic, applied and development research. I would put it here when it comes to connecting with the economy, especially the emphasis on applied and developmental research and on taking care of the application of their results in practice, because in the end, why we are doing research on one of the basic objectives and the purpose is certainly research aimed at improving practice and, in that sense, I think we should strengthen so on. The third mission of higher schools and institutes, therefore, and all those involved in scientific research, in order to ultimately focus all this together on improvement, as I have already said, competences and competitiveness of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44041	Thank you for the response of the esteemed representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44042	Thank you very much. My colleagues, so very briefly I reiterated what the strategy says, that the goal is to reach 2% of GDP, this would be an increase of 1.4, but from the state budget it is truly unrealistic to expect all these funds to be secured rather than half. Half should come from the state budget and the other half from cooperation with the economy. Here I come from a river university where we have really received great equipment in the past term, and that equipment will only make sense if it is used by the economy and if, through this cooperation with the economy, the development of the economy is ensured and the return of funds to a university that will encourage further employment of young scientists, and the return of our scientists from abroad in which the University of Rijeka is very successful at the moment, and that is precisely the goal of developing science in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44043	Thank you. Next club of representatives of the HSS. The esteemed Kresa Beljak does not have a speech, so he loses his right to speak, and then, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independents and HSU, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44044	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Matakovic, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we all have this chamber atmosphere in which we are having this debate as few of us as possible, and in some ways I feel like “teaching to the converted” or as if I can assure those who are already convinced of these things that everyone here had to say. But it may be an opportunity for a couple who are interested in us not only because of our former or parallel careers, but also because we are convinced in any case, I am convinced that this is not only a question of the development of science and research but in a country such as Croatia and the size and economic situation and the need for rapid and accelerated development, that this is an identical issue, an economic question and any other question. That it's actually based on the answer to who we are and who we're going to be in ten or twenty years. And from that point of view, I think the first idea of the Croatian Foundation for Science was and remained a very good idea, that it should be supported, developed and I will say a few things about this report which our club will of course support. But I'm going to take that opportunity just a little comparatively in the end to remind us, first of all, it needs to be financed because whatever we're talking about here, without money, this area simply can't work. And that's what it is, I have a feeling not only of the number of people who are here but also of generality, there will never be anyone who will say it's against it, but that a lot of people in the deep soul think it's some luxury and that there are some few wisers who want to do it, but that de facto there are hundreds, that I don't say thousands of more important topics and more burning questions than this. It's my deep belief that it's not like that, that it's just the other way around. And a lot of what we're dealing with here as burning issues and as terrible crises or some trouble that we find ourselves in is the result of the fact that we're not taking long-term care of this. And that really applies to everything because like I said, it seems like a lot of people think it's a luxury first. And the second one swears greatly before the elections because this science and education are always perceived or at least still perceived in our society as some instrument of social mobility. After the election, however, it will be in some donkey bench that entire vault. So, the Croatian Foundation for Science was founded as you know in 2001, in 2003 this board of directors was appointed and then de facto it began to work. It is interesting that the first projects were support for higher education reforms in 2004 and the inflow of brains, therefore bringing not only people from Croatia who are in diaspora, but generally attracting talented highly skilled and educated people in Croatia. One part or some elements of this project support for higher education reform are seen throughout the concept of education reform. The question is how many of these research results are used, what are done with them when they come. And they're not stupid people, and they're not worthless results. These are all the topics that, I think, have anything to say to what extent it is more relevant than the current ones with the forgiveness of the words of the political talks that we often have on these topics, not looking back on what we paid, or what Croatian taxpayers paid for. That I'm not going to the whole history of the Science Foundation now and when what's being introduced. What I find crucial and what I really need to work on is this instrument... evaluations by people in the same area, the same profession by international experts. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] In a small country like us, such as Croatia, which has an even smaller or appropriate smaller scientific community where everyone knows each other, went together to school or college, loved or not for any reason 30 or 40 years ago, it is necessary to have an external, therefore international evaluation where people will have no idea who the project author is, but simply look at quality and measure. As long as we have this evaluation within our own environment, it's impossible that antipathies and sympathys of individuals that last for decades don't play a role. And that is why this international evaluation is something that I think is crucial to develop and work on and perhaps design additional ways to involve people and motivate top experts in certain areas to participate internationally. Because, of course, it's hard to get people to do that, to participate in this evaluation. But without it, we don't have a chance to actually be useful. By useful thinking and objectively, that is to really recognize quality regardless of some personal relationships within our small scientific community. From that point of view, I agree with what is said to be a somewhat questionable mechanism. It's clear to me that not everything can be sent, because it simply doesn't have enough people internationally who want to accept to be reviewers. And there are probably some things that are simply not at the level at which they should be, but perhaps more clearly or in some let's say a more transparent way to execute that pre-location where it would refer to the technical characteristics of the project precisely in order to allow as much objectivity as possible in the evaluation of the proposed projects. In 2015, as reported in this report, this follow-up of ongoing projects began. So, not only wait for the project to be completed but to either assess the quality of the proposed project, but also to monitor and implement the project which I think can be if it is good and quality work can only be useful and I think it should be developed and continued. Another institute or another form of work that was introduced here was the research partnership, i.e. the partnership between institutions financed from the budget and other elections outside the budget sources of income, i.e. the economy, foreign foundations, etc. It's my opinion that it's certainly good and it should be done, otherwise it can't be done. But at the same time as you look at Croatia, you have five companies that, when anything ever comes to mind, always go to them, for science money, for money for local self-government, for money for culture, for money for art, whatever you can think of, it's these companies. It's just a situation. So it seems to me that it's not enough to say that it's necessary to do so. That you might need to come up with some kind of more proactive policy, which means doing it? Maybe with some stronger tax reliefs than those that have been planned so far, maybe with the Institute of Technology Parks at universities, where what they're doing there in cooperation with the economy would be spent in some kind of practical product, let's say. Every man who deals with science, even social sciences, which among natural scientists should always be a little bit told about having a need and a desire for what some knowledge has come to, to try to translate into something that really works or reflects on real life. So, I think this partnership is a good idea, practically another way we don't have, that all of these things are somehow increased by funding, but that there should be one more proactive attitude by the state, and as far as tax policies and reliefs are concerned, and as far as these technological parks are concerned, and maybe some other ideas that don't come to mind right now, but they're certainly coming up with it. Connecting scientific and academic institutions, institutes and researchers from the economy is an obvious and good thing and should certainly be supported. And now just in the end, a brief comparative review of the funding of science and research in us and in the EU 28 plus 10 countries, some of our neighborhoods, some of Europe's economic space and some of the world's like the United States, Japan and South Korea that are considered here. Namely, this whole debate about the Croatian Foundation for Science and what I should do and what shouldn't be a little bit like that story, when a little boy comes into the store and says, "Please mix me with candy for 1 kuna, and the seller gives him 2 candy and says, and mix them yourself." So here and here, what the Science Foundation would need, but there's no money, there's no money to do it. I agree that we should do all this and now, of the 38 countries that have been taken into account here, just for 2015 is the last year to be combined, so 28 EU members, and 10 of these non-EU non-EU members, Croatia is at the worst 18% to say so, i.e. 7 from the bottom. As a percentage, the GDP that is allocated for science, so 0.85% for 2015. We are worse than Cyprus, Latvia, Malta, Romania, Montenegro and Serbia, with Montenegro and Serbia being data for 2014 and Serbia having 0.77, and we have 0.79. So from that perspective, it's hard to say what we should. That's why it's a topic for us. It has to be a political decision. There's no other way. And like any political decision, it's a choice. Those money's got to be taken somewhere. At a time when the economy is in a very bad situation, it is particularly difficult, when it grows slightly, as it is now growing slightly, it might be a time to do so and I will end up with the highest percentage of GDP in science and research going to the absolute most successful countries of Europe, Scandinavian, with 3% of them being much more money than 3% of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44045	Thank you very much. We have one replica, distinguished representatives of Grodana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44046	Dear colleagues, really reading this report, I wondered what we actually invested, what we paid for and what we got for it, and did we get it? But in another way, I am pleased to see that here, specifically for competition applications, research projects and research projects, we have, from 414 project proposals, even 311 is a tender for research projects and 103 for establishment. And of that, when we look at the structure itself, it's 101, 24.4% biomedicine and health care of 97 23.43 percent and technical sciences are even 16.43% or 68%. So total, natural sciences that prevail in terms of social ones, which is very, very good and that should otherwise make us happy that this is happening and that research is most directed here, and I really expect that we will then have some benefits or application in society, and then also in the quality of life and GDP growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44047	Thank you. The answer of the distinguished representative Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44048	Thank you very much. Bravo, it is good to take projects from natural and technical and medical sciences etc. report largely, however, these projects cannot be financed unless you have money. Danes of the Danish budget do not have 3% of the same 3.33, Finns 3%, Sweden 3, and some percent, these are their budgets not of our budget, not of our budget, but of the small GDP, but of their GDP which is more than ours. And regardless of the areas, and as I said in these areas projects are additionally expensive if you give people insufficient money, they won't do anything and it's actually even more expensive than anything when they make something half. But like I said here, I don't think there's any difference between political options, it's just one negative social value that if we can change it together we should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44049	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Executive directors of the Croatian Foundation for Science, Honored colleagues and colleagues. Of course I share with you a bad feeling of this chamber atmosphere in which we are discussing, so here I want to believe that the reason for such a small number of MPs in the Assembly may be the term in which we hold this debate, it is Friday, so here I want to believe that people have jobs, so here today they are not with us because the vote is over they went on some other assignments. And I wish we were more here because these are important problems and too important problems so that it doesn't deal with more of us. I'll try not to repeat all of what you've said so far even though I've been preparing for it myself. I'll repeat that the foundation was founded, and I have here a report on the web site in 2002, so is it the first or the second? First, then I was wrong, correct on the web pages the data and, as we have already said, in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, it was established with the fundamental purpose of developing and promoting science and technological development in the Republic of Croatia with the ultimate goal of ensuring sustainable social and economic development with the promotion of employment, and leading to these principles of social inclusion. And, of course, to achieve this fundamental purpose, the Foundation provides support to fundamentals as I have said to applied and developmental scientific research which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia through funding scientific projects, as well as research scholarships through a total of seven framework groups of programmes. Support for the Foundation can be PhDs, after PhD scientists and scientific organisations in accordance with regulations governing scientific activities, and participants in support, projects and scholarships can also be students of scientists and experts in scientific organisations and economies both from Croatia and abroad. These are some basic notes. If we analyse the report on the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science in 2015, we can confirm and determine that the Foundation has funded and monitored during that year, as we have pointed out on several occasions a total of 449 projects of around 320 million kuna in different programmes. I'm not going to repeat the numbers now because we've repeated them several times already. What may be important to point out is that, in addition to all the projects financed under different programmes, the development of young researchers' careers and the education of new doctors of science were financed during 2015, gross salaries for 176 PhDs, while in the framework of the Unity Fund, with the help of knowledge, a total of 27 projects worth 32 million kuna have been financed and monitored. We have already spoken some of you have pointed out, that during 2015 further improved procedures for the admission and evaluation of applications for research projects and the education of PhDs have been further improved. This is what I consider to be a major progress, and as well as a simplification and way of reporting, which is why the foundation has responded precisely to a number of scientific community remarks on how to report and how to review and all that we have discussed so far. And of course, what is very important is the transparency of evaluation and decision-making in the financing of the best-valued projects, as well as the monitoring of the responsible use of the money entrusted to the Foundation for the achievement of its purpose. It has already been noted that the first periodic reports of those projects that were previously approved and funded started to be evaluated in 2015 and that it was one of the major challenges during 2015. I hope that here, given that we are now already in the second Malta not half, but certainly in the second half of 2017, that these challenges have been successfully solved. As regards financial resources, given that the financial resources and their allocations for individual programmes are the same as in most EU Member States which finance scientific research through similar national foundations, they depend on the funds allocated for this purpose from the national budget. We feel justified to warn the Foundation Management Board about the alarming decline in investment in scientific research below critical level which is not enough for the development of competitive scientific research and of course for the development of the career of our young researchers, which, of course, we have talked about in the long term, reduces Croatia's competitiveness in the European Research Area and, of course, the data of UNESCO's 2015 report on science which Croatia is accommodation among those European countries in which R & D allocations are unfortunately continuously reduced. And unfortunately, Croatia has not strayed from the average of Southeast European countries at the amount of budget funding. And, of course, since Croatia's entry into full membership of the countries, the European Union has opened up a new possibility of withdrawing funds from the European Funds during 2015, the Foundation sought, in addition to the state budget, to increase the share of extra- budget funding for scientific research and to provide funding from European and other international funds and of course to actively engage in the finding of additional opportunities for withdrawal. If I am not mistaken in 2015, the additional problem was to provide initial funding from the state budget for participation, so actually for the start-up participation in programmes obtained from European funds in particular in those programmes coming from the European Social Fund. We, of course, need to further emphasise here that the lack of budgetary funding cannot be fully compensated by extra-financial means, for example, by donations and funds from European funds because of the fact that these funds are not long-term and we must be aware of that. And so these funds cannot have the purpose of maintaining the institutional stability of the national, scientific system because of the fact that they are allocated for individual projects. In other words, therefore, funds from the European Funds for Science which form part of the extra budget funds of the Foundation both in 2015 and in today's times. They cannot and must not be compensated for reduced national isolation but rather the opposite. So that the basic assumption of the successful integration of Croatian science into the European Research Area but of course also of the overall social economic development of Croatia based on knowledge and scientific achievements must be based and we will all agree on greater state support and on ensuring that more national resources are provided both by those initials that are necessary for the reporting of European projects and also by those that are aimed at, therefore, maintaining the institutional stability of the national scientific system. What I think is still needed to say and important that despite the lack of financial resources from the 2015 report, it is evident that the foundation during that year sought to fulfill its role as the central body providing financial support and, of course, strengthen not only human resources but also procedurally and thus help position science as a driver of positive economic and social change in Croatian society. And I also need to stress that during 2015 the foundation has done quality work in the light of the circumstances of its legal task, which, of course, makes its work report for 2015 transparent in all its parts. So far, we have also talked about the financial report of the foundation, which at the annual level in 2015, had a total income of just over one hundred million kuna, so one hundred and one million and something, 609 thousand kuna of which 97 thousand 754, 97 million 754 thousand from the state budget. And of course here it is again necessary to highlight this bond and the need to connect with the economy and connect with all of the indications that previous speakers have said, one is a declarative level and the other is as counterpart Pusic said that it really does implement it in practice and implement it. And indeed, I would say that I would like to raise awareness of the thinking that until we start really intensely investing in science and intensively linking science and our economy will not achieve the deep-needed and desired competitiveness in the European area. And what we have already highlighted and I am also joining this criticism, given that I am getting circumstances today when we are in mid-2017 discussing the report on the work of the foundation in 2015. I consider it necessary to set out the part of the report which describes the priorities and guidelines of the 2016 Foundation in terms of planning which I consider to make a significant contribution to the quality of the report but also points to the developmental thinking of the work of the foundation and strategic approach to improving the quality of its work and according to the strategic plan of the Croatian Foundation for Science from 2014 to 2014. '18. the year available on the foundation's website. In this respect, the main priorities and guidelines of the 2016 Foundation are primarily aimed at creating and strengthening further humane assumptions on evaluation, with the emphasis being placed on continuous work on quality control and improving each single step of the evaluation process, and also on further developing the electronic system for reporting in processing and evaluation and monitoring which, if I am not mistaken in 2013, was established, and of course as an important priority of international cooperation and the promotion of Croatian scientific institutions and researchers on the use of the potential of the Croatian scientific diaspora and also, on encouraging scientific Croatian origin abroad to connect with domestic scientists, where I consider a particularly important contribution to the possible contribution of the Croatian diaspora, young Croatian scientists. Finally, on the basis of everything that has been stated so far, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the report on the work of the Croatian Science Foundation in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44051	Thank you very much. Is there anything that the Proposer's representative would like to say briefly? Yeah. Honored Executive Director of Croatian Foundation Hrvoje Mataković.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44052	I would like to thank the distinguished MPs for their comments and for their suggestions, I would also like to support what the distinguished representative Pusic said about possible tax reliefs, etc. I think that would actually be a good way to further develop cooperation between the economy and the academic community. We tried this in a way that we conceived a partnership between the academic community and the economy and gave 50% of the funds, etc. In research, unfortunately, this has not proved to be a very good path so far, I would say, mostly because of the structure and state of our economy, but because there is no interest in the academic community, so I think this would actually be a good way to go. Well, I'd like to thank you for your comments and for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44053	Thank you very much. That's what I'd like to conclude. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And we will see each other on Monday, so next week we are working on Monday, and the first item will be the annual report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and the proposal for an annual report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2016. Have a nice weekend. SESSION Interrupted at 14.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-07-07-0.u44054	Annual report by the Croatian Science Foundation for 2015. The holder is the Croatian Foundation for Science. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion "The Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2015. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 128 for, 3 abstentions and 1 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the National Assembly Committee. Here you go.
