ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u24750	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I request a 10-minute recess on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. The topic is the attempt to take Badell hostilely to the harm of the state and small shareholders.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u24751	Representative Vlaović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u24752	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, I request a break in the public debate on the decisions on the grounds for the conclusion of a health protection contract from compulsory health insurance. Namely, the tendency is to increase the number of patients needed to negotiate with HZZO which will lead to the abolition of certain hospitals. [[President's intrusion: All right.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u24753	Thank you. If that's what I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The Association of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists first called for a break, and MP Tomislav Panenic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u24755	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. When I come out with a dramatic announcement hostile takeover then of course it requires an explanation. If we have a company that lies to the minister, who deceives the public, who works against Croatian interests when they attack me, I felt that I was their enemy, when they attack the state, then we can also say that they are our enemies, which is exactly what we have on the Badell case. As you are familiar with the pre-departure settlement plan, the entire plan is based on an attempt by Meteor, with the help of Badel Management, to reach a majority stake in Badel, and thus controls the company. For how long? For a very little bit. Their investment plan includes 139 million kunas bought from banks at a discounted price for a few million kunas and will add another 51 million kuna and will total more than 50% of capital. And that's why it's in the plan and it says it's going to execute the existing stock value at 10 kuna. If you look historically that stock was once worth 960 kuna, the state as state bodies as the largest shareholders will be damaged by small shareholders. And at the end of this you followed and my request was according to the administration to call a new tender, because there were also newer quality bidders who offered more. And we see from the last offer 50 million euros is a round offer compared to 26 approximately what Meteor offers. And we'll accept that. And who's supposed to accept that? As you are aware to accept the pre-demand settlement plan or in a group of certain creditors, the groups are public authorities and state-owned companies, the second group of financial institutions, the third group remained. We in both groups can the first two mentioned, actually as a state say no, we don't let that happen. In a group of public administrations and state-owned societies, we have 173 million kuna claims. Therefore, we have over 50% and one no, not from the CERP, not from the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, not from HEP Supply, not from Croatian Waters, not from the Customs Administration, not from the Tax Administration, but from almost stopping. There is a second option, which is that the plan accepts 2/3 of all the believers. That would mean that I listed one of the post office banks and then we say no, we don't give a company that's worth it. I was there, the former prime minister was there, that company was worth it, it's worth it, and someone's been trying all these years to cut its value and put her in a position to take over. Well, I'd say why didn't we agree here then, so that's something we'll legalize. If the leading bodies, the resolutely competent Ministry of State Property, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Ministry of Finance gave instructions we go to protect the state, let's try to achieve another better price. I'm just asking you to give Badell another try to get much better conditions, if that's what Meteor is, but at least to go with the actual quality investment of six hundred million kunas to take a majority stake in Badel that's taking over. And given the way they've been acting towards state authorities, highly-ranked officials, lies, public delusions, it's hostile takeover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u24756	Thank you, Agent Panenic. The HSS representative club also reported to the apartment and representative Davor Vlaovic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u24757	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSS Club, I asked for a break to warn of the current moment, given that the public debate on the terms of the contract for the implementation of health care from compulsory health insurance is these days. In fact, a large number of family medicine teams do not have enough patients and therefore are not able to finance the activity until the end. The key question is whether we want a health care that goes to a patient, which is our constitutional and foundation of the Health Protection Act, obligations and care for our own health and the health of our population, and is fundamentally the first to come from those acts, health insurance for every patient no matter where he lives. The fact that discussions are going towards a plan to abolish a number of medical family medicine and we need to speak publicly against it, and that is why I am updating this topic because our residents who have remained living in Slavonia, Lica, Podravina and other less populated areas are not to blame. Because bad policies have led to a reduction in the number of people in these areas, to emigration, and now those other residents who have stayed there should be punished for not having a doctor of family medicine in their municipality in their village. Technology, especially in health care and living conditions, has increased life expectancy, today it is an average between 75 and 80 years old, the life span of the population in Croatia. Fifty-fifty years ago, that was 65 years ago. And now that old lady from the village of Prnjavora must go 40 km to Slavonski Brod, it costs her over 50 kn in one direction and the question is whether she has those 50 kunas for the bus, whether she will go to the doctor or society wants her not to go to the doctor and unfortunately die and thus reduce the costs of the health system. I think we should go to that old lady's got a family doctor in her community. We therefore propose that in Article 21 of this Decision, the number of patients required to negotiate with HZZO is left at 700 which is minimum for one team. And I think that society, we need to find the means to finance a family doctor whether he's an employee of home health or a concessionary. We also insist on entering the contractual obligation on weekends because we currently do not have it as a contractual obligation but is left to ensure that the director of home health is on duty which he is most often not able to do. And another big problem is that even mortuary isn't a contractual obligation. Well, you have a situation where a family doctor who monitors and treats for the rest of his life is not a coroner and you have to look for a coroner and often they don't have enough. And it was left to the regional self-government units to finance the mortuary, and then we have unequal criteria. I think it should also be a contractual obligation because if a doctor follows you from birth then in this situation when a man dies to be that doctor and coroner because he knows the situation best in that family. So here on behalf of the HSS Club, I appeal to all of us, to the Government, to the Minister to get involved in this public debate and to arrange models with HZZ to finance that in every municipality, we have a doctor of family medicine in every village because it is our constitutional and legal obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u24758	I thank Representative Vlaovic. We're going back to work. The first point is: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the gas market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 92; Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate referred to in Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Ante Cikotic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31973	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act, which the Republic of Croatia is further harmonising with EU legislation. Namely, the Gas Act, Croatia has harmonised all energy legislation with EU regulations and, given that the third energy package is continuously complemented, continued harmonisation of Croatian energy legislation is needed. Thus, the Law amending and supplementing the gas market law is extensively governing new rules on the gas market and therefore significant changes have been made to the amendments to the law. Furthermore, this law sets out a new model of the gas market in such a way that the competent ministry, in cooperation with the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and the gas market operator, will launch a tender for the determination of suppliers on the wholesale gas market. The law lays down that, following the tender, the Governments of the Republic of Croatia will determine suppliers on the wholesale market that are required under regulated conditions to sell gas to suppliers in the public service of supply, means households with which they have concluded a gas supply contract and for the needs of customers of the category of household. The wholesaler will ensure a reliable and secure supply of gas to customers of the household category. The law provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will determine the price of gas for public gas supply, which determines the maximum price of gas for household customers in order to protect them from excessive gas prices. The law fulfils the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission whose failure to comply leads to the opening of a judicial process or infraringment for failure to fulfil the obligations and deadlines set. Therefore, one of the most important provisions of the law concerns the abolition of the obligation on the gas producer to offer the total amount of gas produced primarily to gas suppliers supplying gas to customers on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which was considered by the European Commission as a limiting factor for the full opening of the gas market in the Republic of Croatia. The law also provides for a transitional period for the HEP to carry out its activities on the wholesale gas market until the supplier's determination on the wholesale gas market. The gas storage system operator is also obliged to distribute 60% of the total available standard storage capacity packages to the wholesaler, i.e. HEP in transitional provisions. Supply providers on the wholesale market will be obliged to grant storage facilities to that supplier, which will be determined on the basis of tenders made by a specified decision of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, this way I would like to stress that the adoption of the law in question by emergency procedure is necessary in order to ensure legal assumptions for the liberalisation of the gas market, i.e. the deregulation of the final price of gas for households that have not yet been met in Croatia. This establishes a system for the protection of vulnerable customers, an adequate level of development of the wholesale market, the achievement of technical preconditions for the effective change of gas suppliers at household level, the natural gas available in Croatia to participants in the gas market under equal conditions, economic growth and others. The law opens the possibility of introducing a transitional period during which the wholesale component of the final gas price for households would remain regulated. The law creates conditions for the normal functioning of the gas market in Croatia, so it is necessary to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. The Legislative Committee has made several nomotechnical amendments that the applicant accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31974	Thank you, Secretary of State Anti Chikotić. The replica was reported by a representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31975	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I wouldn't say I'm sorry, but I don't think it's a good idea that when we talk about such an important topic that hundreds of thousands of our citizens are looking at today and wondering how it's going to affect the price of gas in the future that there isn't a Minister Dobrović here who's been cheering us up for the past few days and information that he's going to jump the price of electricity. Now he's probably going to jump the price of gas, although he couldn't say it out loud yesterday, so he said he didn't know. But it would be good if the minister who's the most responsible here for this problem had been able to discuss it with him. But what I would say is certainly the basis for market liberalisation, but at the same time the basis is also for price liberalisation, i.e. in some way the prices that are at present gas in Croatia are somewhat lower than in some other countries, unfortunately, still not as low as they are in Hungary. But the assumption is that from the first April of next year, gas prices are going up and our citizens see in their accounts 15, 20, 25% higher gas accounts, which means 200 to 300 kuna in the heating season, bigger heating bills for all those heating up in Croatia to natural gas. You allow INAs on one side to earn extra profit and extra money by selling gas outside the Republic of Croatia, means selling our natural wealth, for example in Italy, and on the other, it will be reflected in the way that Croatian citizens pay the price of gas and that Croatian citizens have several thousand kunas a year higher than they have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31976	Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31977	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. As far as our citizens are concerned, what will be the price and what will happen to the liberalisation of gas. However, it is very important for citizens to know the impact of full energy both gas and electricity. We need to know that it is clear, that due to the wind and I can explain it to the public because of the wind the citizens will either jump to the price of the citizens of payments or in 2017 the state will have to secure 1.1 billion in the current, 1 and a half billion kuna in 2018, 1.6 billion kuna in 2019. So if they don't pay the citizens, the state will have to secure it. Because of the contract she made and because of the incentives made by the government of Zoran Milanovic's decisions. So can you explain how you will regulate what is important to our citizens, and what will be a huge burden to the Croatian budget, and these are the criminal decisions of that government at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31978	Now we're going to move on to the Live Wall and Power Club. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, as we've changed I wasn't aware that the committee's reporters hadn't been yet. On behalf of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, President-in-Office of the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the 8th session held on 16 February 2017, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 9 February 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed law is going towards partial liberalisation of the gas market by abolishing the obligation on the gas producer and natural gas producer to place the total production of natural gas to suppliers on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. A new model of the gas market is also defined by the competent ministry in cooperation with the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and the gas market operator to open and conduct a tender for the determination of suppliers on the wholesale gas market. A transitional period shall also be established in which HEP will carry out this activity until the supplier is determined on the wholesale gas market. The proposed law determines that 60% of the storage capacity remains reserved for public service. It is also established that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will determine the price of gas for public gas supply, which determines the maximum gas price for household customers. Following this opening argument, the debate expressed concern over the possible negative effects of partial liberalisation of the gas market on gas prices for end-users in the Republic of Croatia by abolishing the obligation to INA d.d. sell the total quantity of natural gas produced on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It has been warned that circumstances may potentially arise in which INA would be guided, and what is normal, by profit, to place gas in other countries while Croatia's final consumers would be forced to use imported gas at higher prices. As pointed out, the applicant's representative pointed out that the INA's biggest income can be achieved by selling gas in Croatia because of the existing high transport tariffs which are one of the mechanisms for protecting this domestic production. He also stressed that the maximum gas price for household customers will be defined by the government's decision of the Republic of Croatia and key to supplying customers of the category of households assessed the reservation of storage facilities for public service. The debate also stressed that the proposed law represents an important step towards the liberalisation of the gas market and the adaptation of Croatia's gas distribution system to our environment and the functioning of the gas market in the EU. It has been pointed out that it is a process of liberalisation which, in the context of EU membership, cannot be stopped. As significant definitions of the proposed law, it was pointed out that he had taken care of protected customers and introduced the obligation to book 60% of the storage capacity for public service, which contributes to the safety and flexibility of the system and the reliability of the supply of customers in the category of household. After the debate was held, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act, with a majority vote of 5 votes for, 3 against and 1 vote abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31980	Thank you very much. Do other committee rapporteurs perhaps want to take a word for it? No, I don't. So, I'm opening a debate. The first in the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club will be spoken by the distinguished representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. No, he's giving up. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, distinguished representative Davor Vlaović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSS Club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act in an emergency procedure because we are in line with European directives, but on the other hand we regulate the gas market in the Republic of Croatia. What is important is to point out that these legal changes will partially liberalise the gas market and that the manufacturer has no obligation to offer wholesale to distributors in the Republic of Croatia all quantities of produced gas. On behalf of the HSS, I ask the question, will we thus open the gap that gas and other energy prices in the Republic of Croatia are growing and is it only enough that this clause will introduce by law the government's obligation to ensure the stability of the gas supply of households and to determine the maximum price of gas or will this maximum price of gas in the Republic of Croatia for households be such as to meet the economic strength of our family economies, our households? Because the fact is that we still have a large number of unemployed in Croatia, yesterday we talked about the Social Care Act, a large number of citizens who use social benefits and are unable to pay gas prices for heating, such as in the environment in European countries. And the real question is whether the INA as the largest gas producer in Croatia, because of the liberalisation of the market, will make the most of the gas and thus generate extra profits, and on the other hand, the state will have to react and import gas at higher prices and who will make that difference in domestic or state prices. I will always because of our standards of Croatian citizens and tell them to pay then the state if it has already regulated it this way and has put households in an inability to use more expensive gas, and it is expected that prices will rise, then any price increase should not go to the burden of the citizens of the Republic. And also when it comes to privileged gas customers in the Republic of Croatia, HEP has been mentioned because of preferential prices. The data I've got says that somewhere there's an extra profit of about 600 million kuna, which is ok. Because that's how it went down the heating price for our citizens. However, the municipalities to which the gas is exploited for this reason were not then paid for the mine. And on behalf of the club, we have referred to the procedure of the Assembly's proposal to amend this regulation in order to protect the revenues of municipalities and cities in which gas and other hydrocarbons are exploited. We have also already had here a discussion of one of the privileged customers is also Petrochemy Kutina. We see that there is a debate on the business model of this company that is very important for the Republic of Croatia, for our agricultural production, but also for craftsmen and entrepreneurs who rely on this economy. So here's my question and appeal if you can hear if you're talking about the model and the price of gas for, and we know that one of the biggest energys is needed to produce artificial fertilisers of gas, what kind of price it will be. Whether the prices of artificial fertilisers will grow on this basis and whether our agricultural producers will then pay more expensive artificial fertilisers or not to use it in sowing so that we will have lower yields and problems in the yields of our OPGs and all those involved in agricultural production. It's closely related to this topic because, of course, distributors are looking at their profits, not the end-user, and I think we need to protect the end-user here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31982	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31983	Kolega Vlaovic, I would refer to this part of the rent for local self-government, but of course the citizens ate the local self-government itself is a service to the citizens and surely the citizens are less burdened with other burdens and communal fees. Renta is a sign of something that happens not only in terms of gas but in whole energy, so the very wind power plants that were built in the area are built in the way they were built in the area, so I come to the point where the biggest gains are, they have to kill and encourage these foreign investors that are eligible. Again, the government's decision was criminal because with 30 June, 25 June on the electricity price market with these incentives is 90 June. So it's more expensive for our citizens and there's no benefit for citizens except that the environment is destroyed. It's also the same principle with hydrocentrals because in my Cetina region like gas somewhere, we also have 5 hydrocenters on the river Cetina. And some municipalities are achieving some kind of minimum rights regardless of the huge damage to the only area of agriculture or floods that affect, the level of water inside the lake. And now we see similar objects in the area as well, such as the gas power plant on the Peru, which they also want to exploit individuals of their own interest, i.e. earning and incentives must be paid by citizens or states. On land owned by HEP and state. So constantly in someone's pockets, mostly foreign goes money and rent doesn't come where the burden of citizens should be. And that's local self-government where these local self-governments would survive. So far, these local self-governments have been just exploiting fields of these interesting lobbies, which are political elites as a decision in 2014 for wind power plants, which is a crime of unprecedented proportions. And really here's the secretary of state, so here's the thing, and it would be good if he were to be able to look at this, and you're flying in with these incentives is the biggest damage to Croatian citizens, and most of all, the areas that are literally empty, that go in the pocket of these criminal organizations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31984	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31985	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, here I agree with your debate that decisions on energy independence of the Republic of Croatia must not go and cannot go to the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that all those who have made decisions in the law on how the Republic of Croatia will be energy independent if they have gone to harm the state should be responsible. It was a dilemma in the adoption of an energy strategy and development of the Republic of Croatia whether to go to nuclear energy, whether to use ecological, renewable energy sources, whether from hydrocarbons, from water, and always where experts are divided depending on which technology their group is more inclined or advocates where they expect greater profits. We must always look at the HSS and say if Europe has found its vision of development through renewable energy sources that it has rightly followed and the Republic of Croatia has not and should not have taken advantage of certain groups. And it's a shame that the tenders that were scheduled for solar power plants, for the family households that reported on the same day and were closed, so some had earlier information, had previously collected documentation until most of our fellow citizens could participate in it. And here I publicly urge the minister to re-open similar projects for the energy restoration of facades at family homes as soon as possible. It is currently going for more residential buildings but there is a need on the ground and for family houses and other types of renewable energy sources and we also have an example of the production of pollen from plant residues on agricultural surfaces and through the production of pellets and the creation of markets of the same can help preserve both agriculture and life in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31986	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31987	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I have to say right away in the beginning I will not support the proposal to amend this law on the gas market under a very simple law. We cannot support a law that will go towards full or partial liberalisation of the market without seeing clear consumer protection measures, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, from the rise in the price of gas. So very clearly here we want to say that the amendments to this law will lead in this way, will lead to a rise in the price of gas from April this year and we consider it responsible for those who propose it, MOST and HDZ. And all those who support this law, citizens when they see bills, of course not so much in April of this year, since the heating season is behind us, but as citizens get bills at home and see how much they pay for gas monthly and pay for the heating of gas. If their account is 1000, 1200 kn per month they can be aware that on the terms of these amendments next year, that is, in the 10th month, the 11th month, the pardon, next season of heating, that is, this year in the 10th month, the 11th month will pay 250 to 300 kuna more monthly for what the HDZ and MOST government is, not because of the wind but because of its decision to change the law on the gas market, liberalise the market and allow Croatia's wealth, Croatian mining wealth, gas exploited in Croatia and owned by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia can be sold at higher prices outside, it is a change of this law, it allows MOL to have higher profits and profits, MOL, here very consciously speaking, since MOL is the owner of 50% of the INA, where INA would decide to sell everything that it is exploiting in Croatia and that it is possible to sell more than 5 billion meters of natural gas in Italy. That's the maximum profit INA could make from that. Of course that's not going to happen, but that profit will certainly be measured in billions of kunas. And now you tell me here why the government of the Republic of Croatia and the MOST Minister Dobrovic suggest that someone on our natural wealth earns new profits, new profits, and that tomorrow the citizens of the Republic of Croatia pay I said several thousand kuna per family per month or annually higher gas costs. Why would anyone do that? Perhaps the consultants who worked for Mr. Karamark now are working very successfully with some others, I don't know, maybe that's the answer. Because those who are engaged by the MOL to pass exactly these laws by the Croatian government obviously achieve results. So, the SDP is against it, the SDP is against the fact that without the protection mechanisms, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be left to the market for mercy and mercy and pay higher gas bills 20, 25% than they paid yesterday. While gas production is at the same time Croatian, Croatian national wealth is sold in other countries that have no gas production where the price is higher than in the Republic of Croatia, for example. Croatia must be aware that among the rare countries in Europe, which has both gas sites and gas exploitation unfortunately is not as much as we could have had the dynamics of investment in INA in the way it should have been. And it has 55 to 60% of its own, so gas consumption production in the Republic of Croatia and we need to know how to use it, ladies and gentlemen. You can't go from topic to topic like this and say it's because of the wind. Well, the wind is what you say, Mr. Bull. Tomorrow from April 1st this year INA will sell and sell power, I assure you in Italy Croatian gas and make twice as much income as it is in Croatia now. What are we doing this for? Because the EU is pushing us? Well, we're not the only country with that definition in its law. Why does Croatia have to give in and some other countries don't have to? Whether pressure from Hungary and MOL requires Croatia to make additional revenues available to MOL and, on the other hand, higher accounts to Croatian citizens. I don't think he has to. And I think that all the MPs in this House of ours who represent their citizens might not have that much in their electoral unit of people who are heating up on gas, so maybe that's why they don't have that sensitivity. But in Zagreb, I am very sensitive that our citizens in Zagreb have a higher price of gas than they have, for example, still in Budapest, and tomorrow they will have another 20% higher. And I'm very sensitive to the fact that our natural wealth is made available to someone who will be able to make extra profits from that gas tomorrow. And I am very sensitive to the fact that the concession fee in Croatia is still twice as low in some comparable countries. So if we already want to liberalise the market in such a way that, based on our concessions, our gas makes someone generate additional revenues, which is why we haven't raised any more royality or concession fee to 20%. It's 10% now. Which is why, for example, it wasn't the first proposal by MOST Minister Dobrovic, but rather the first proposal at the price, in the Gas Act, to raise citizens' prices to 25%. Which is why it comes first to MOL and INA and is not the first to go hand in hand to Croatian citizens to those who say those concessions where they live in Moldova, Podravina, etc. where the gas is draining, which is why we haven't raised a concession fee for people who have a certain cost, and I would say they don't have such living conditions as they would have if they weren't doing certain research and gas exploitation, which is why we didn't give them extra income and raise the concession fee and allow those units of local self-government to develop better and better quality, to fix their roads and everything that comes into existence, where the problem arises when gas is exploited. But the first thing we did was how much this, the third month of this government, is immediately the first law, one of the corporate laws of the Ministry of Energy run by the MOST Minister Dobrovic, a proposal to raise 25% of gas prices to citizens. I don't think that's right, gentlemen. We can't support that. We can't accept the argument that the secretary of state is also giving us here, that they have protective mechanisms. The only argument he could say here is that he guarantees by the resignation of the minister and his resignation that the price of gas will not be collected next year. It's the only thing I admit here, but we won't hear it because Minister Dobrovic yesterday said he didn't know if the price of gas would go up, but he knows, for example, that the price of electricity would go up, but the price of gas doesn't know if it would go up. And that's also one of the problems that we want to highlight here. As far as LNG is concerned, LNG is a project that will develop for a few more years when we will have effects and benefits from it it will probably already be far behind when this government will already be former. So on that side I wouldn't pro futuro because that's when we're waiting for four, five years of higher gas prices while at the same time our gas will be useful to someone else. And that is why I call here on the HDZ and MOST government not to do this, to prevent the sale of Croatian gas outside the Republic of Croatia. I will personally and write the amendment as an agent about this and allow what we all want here in the Croatian Parliament and the Republic of Croatia, which is energy independence of the Republic of Croatia. If we already have a natural wealth, if we exploit it, if nature and God gave us that possibility, why not allow our citizens to feel it, which is why Hungarians must benefit from it, which is why our citizens must benefit from the company that is on the market, which is why our citizens must pay 200, 300 kuna monthly higher gas consumption than they had to yesterday? As if at this point the gas bills are not high, as if at this point our citizens can afford an additional increase in the price of gas. And I guarantee you that it is no accident that this law is passed because from April 1st this year when the heating season stops, the gas will accumulate, the citizens won't feel it, but in the 10th month there will be painful and unpleasant sobering. I wish we had an innovative government, a government that offers solutions, not a government that's the only solution for turning everything upside down and that's the problem. So let's not talk pro futuro, talk about ideas, talk about LNG that's going to happen in 4.5 years, talk about fog, gas, wind, something else, switch from topic to topic. What is important, and they must be aware here, and especially of the club of the representatives of MOST, who is a lot of advocated citizens when it comes to national interests, at least that's what they say, that from the 1.10th of April, on the continuum of Minister Dobrovic, the gas accounts will be 20, 25% higher and citizens must know it already at the beginning of this moment, not from April 1st, because they won't feel it because there is no more consumption of gas in households, but since 1.10. yes. There is no need to liberalise the sale of our gas outside Croatia until the price of concession fees is corrected at the same time and they create safeguard mechanisms that would allow citizens to relatively calmly welcome the heating season. If the government really wants to help consumers, let it reduce the various fees and taxes that have a significant impact on the level of gas prices, there is the possibility of helping citizens, but unfortunately, of course, in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, they do not think and in this respect the Most and HDZ do not have compassion with citizens, but they are obviously not interested in it at all. Let them think about building another gas storage facility in the Republic of Croatia that we need, to speed up the procedures and possibility of building LNG terminals, to build something, and not to exceed the cost of gas prices to our citizens. Once again in the end, what we think is the most important and the easiest thing for citizens to do is actually compromise. In Croatia concession fee 10% higher in Hungary, in Croatia the price of gas higher than in Hungary, tomorrow another 30% higher than it is today. Why Hungary, why does MOL take care of its citizens and industry, while HDZ and MOST do not care about our citizens and our industry? Although Croatia in the exploitation of gas and the amount of gas it has for its own purposes and in its supplies exceeds the Republic of Hungary, and now we allow extra earnings for MOL and we allow one more thing, which is that tomorrow, in negotiations on INA, the INA will be more expensive because HEP will be cheaper because this law potentially put HEP in trouble to take over certain costs which, tomorrow, by its decision on the price of gas, will put the most about the price of gas in front of it. So we weaken HEP, strengthen the INA at the moment they want to sell HEP and buy INA at HDZ and MOST. What does that make sense? Somebody tell me what logic that makes? So we're buying INA and strengthening INA this way tomorrow, selling HEP we're weakening HEP with this law tomorrow. Absolutely no logic unless I said at the beginning of the MOL consultants such as Mr Jose Petrovic work well with both HDZ and MOST. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31988	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31989	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm responding to that part of the exposure, says Mr. Maras, there's no compassion with the citizens and don't let it get to the households and the citizens. So here I quote one cabinet session, you were Mr. Maras Minister 27.4.2012. The famous session, item 11, item 12, gas 20%, electricity 22%, you raise your hand and say everything's fine. You want statements from that time. According to Milanovic, this is unfortunately bad news, this is the reality of these things we cannot influence even though they have influenced because they have made a decision. Then pick up Mr. Mrsic says the gatherings are the basis for our better future. You come here today and you give a little compassion lecture, I guess you're out of your own cup, but you've already decided how much they're gonna collect and you say these people don't feel for citizens. It's terrible indeed. After you raise your hand as a minister to collect some 20 and 22% of electricity and gas based on some HERE decisions from 2010. We haven't had a chance to discuss it in Parliament. You've made such a decision in the government. We are here discussing the law and, of course, we are listening to lectures which should be a lot of compassion with the citizens and we have forgotten everything and we have done nothing. It says 200 kuna a month, what Cacic said at that time it will cost you an average household of 73 kunas a month and a half, times 12 months almost 900 kuna. We cut VAT to electricity bills, you were against it. And now you're saying how you can do it to Croatian citizens and why you don't feel the way we did. It was well described by your policy by a left intellectual when he said he was going from empty to nothing with a trend to fall over the edge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31990	Thank you. The answer to the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31991	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, you take one piece of information and then present it to him that it is. As if I am now taking the information that Sanader signed the gas business with MOL and that Croatia loses 2.3 billion a year on the bill. So you must be aware that after what you read, a whole series of decisions followed both 13ths and 14ths and 15s that reduced prices and electricity and gas. Yeah, ha, I mean you can laugh all you want, here even your colleagues don't approve of you, you're looking for a look at some nod but no air conditioning. So give some support to Boric. Give a little support to Boric because he feels left alone. So on this side, Mr. Boric, I just want to say one thing to you, so tell the Croatian citizens whether the price of gas will go up or not, you, State Secretary, Minister, etc. I say he will. If you say they won't, or if they say they won't, and if they put their mandates at their disposal by guaranteeing that they've protected the citizens, then I'll say okay, you're right, we made a decision a year ago five, six years ago that we reduced three times after that. But then I'll tell you you're right but no one here will say it. Here they will say that they liberalise the gas market and that they will pay 200, 300 kuna bills per month in the family. And that's the only truth, I don't know what, anymore it's a simple calculation, simple mathematics. Just like simple math that you'll sell gas where it's worth more. Why do we have to sell our gas in Italy? For what? If we have the pressure of the European Commission, that doesn't mean we have to do it tomorrow. Let's wait for the LNG terminal in 4, 5 years when it's made, and then we'll change it, and then we'll have a bigger supply of domestic gas, and then we'll have a smaller impact on the price. So none of this is done but simply goes to benefit, I told INA and MOL and foreign people and to the harm of our Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31992	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31993	Thank you very much. I'm glad my colleague Maras is loud, especially with regard to the INA and the white nights. If INA hadn't gone like a white night and there was one sequence today, we wouldn't have talked about this, about MOL. And of course he did, so you have your SDP Petrovic, Mr. Siniš Petrovic, that as chairman of the Supervisory Board he gave the agenda to go to the INA supervisory board to go to the trade court in Zagreb, 200 million kuna would be saved because of the arbitration that was in Switzerland. Your intuition, your party president. That you were, and there was a SDP, nothing less had your Petrovic as you call the name of another Petrovic Joza. There's no difference. If INA hadn't gone into someone else's hands and you weren't there today, you wouldn't have talked about it this way, but you wouldn't have talked about INA, the Croatian INA. When you talk about the European Union, you say this is a directive, some kind of harmonisation, liberalisation. You were for the European Union. I am a European, born in Croatia, like all of us, from Dalmatia, Europe is, we are part of Europe, but I did not vote for the European Union when you declared these ideas here in this way. No, here's what I have the right to say. Which is why I didn't speak, because it was fog, it's all evidence that this is fog. And now you're defending national attitudes. Well, you sold everything for Judas's paws. Well, a billion and 100 million kunas of Croatia have to pay for the wind because of the state budget for your decision, Mr. Maras. The next year a billion and a half in foreign pockets go, 2019 billion and 600 because citizens know in foreign pockets because of the wind power plants in my area.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31994	Thank you. Answer of the Honorable Representative Let me give you my word. [[/Intruder Maras: Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.]] Now will be answered by the distinguished representative Gordan Maras. Can I have your decency, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to say here that Miro Bulj is lying. So Maras wasn't selling, he wasn't sharing INA, he wasn't designing the concept of a wind power plant that was designed in 2009. These are your coalition partners, Mr. Bull. Let's stop talking nonsense here. Please stop talking nonsense. Maras launched an INA investigation committee that found out what Sanader was doing and how Sanader was doing. I'm Mr. Bully, every time INA was a response, the way I thought it was right, and it turned out to be right. Don't sell the fog, you have a responsibility. So why don't you give the amendment now that this law is defined so that our gas can't be sold. So what are you telling me about 10 years ago what happened? It'll be for all the reasons that happened 10 years ago, whatever you do wrong. I don't know who Milanovic is or what your intuition is, and I don't care. But you obviously know everything. You think getting into Google Zoran Milanovic is enough for you to know everything. I don't think so. I can judge what I see and think whether it's good or bad. I think this is bad. Tell me about whether you think it's good to have our gas sold outside of Croatia or not. I am for the European Union but I am not to kneel before the EU, I am not to take my pants off in front of the EU. I want to fight for strong Croatia within the EU. That's what I voted for. And you now obviously think that we have entered the EU that we have to give in to everything, even in this matter. I don't think so. Show Mr. Bull you don't think so either, but you vote on the click. That's what we saw at Mr. Barisic's. You clicked like everyone else at the Most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31996	A fellow respected Bull has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt please?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31997	The President-in-Office, Article 238, Article 5, dissuasion or insult of another representative. He said I was telling a lie, and not once did a fellow counsel say I was telling a lie, because not once did he confirm that I wasn't lying. Because my colleague Maras made a decision about wind power plants, about incentives. So he was in the SDP when his colleague Sinisa Petrovic, their colleague, i.e. The SDP man when he didn't do what he had to do and what caused the great damages of the RH 200 million. The white nights were also SDP when counterpart Linic sold it for a lot of money. So, he said one false thing, but I'm glad he's expressing himself in folk's language of lies, that he's loud, and when he should have kept his mouth shut. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31998	Well, since it all goes into the diapas of parliamentaryism as it is clearly understood in this House, then I estimate that it has not been injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u31999	Mr. Vice President, if you've already noticed this, Article 232 to 238, which speaks of holding a session, and if you've already seen it and you could have seen it already after a few sentences, you should have interrupted Mr. Bulj, because he keeps telling the truth, nonstop. So he's always talking about some of the White Nights, look at the talks about wind power plants strategy that was adopted in 2009 when HDZ was in power and all the time it tells me that I didn't have anything to do with it, except I started an investigative commission around the INA. So I'll tell Mr. Bull again he's lying. I'm sorry to have to say that because I like him. Who wouldn't love him? Look at him. He's cute, but when he's lying, then you have to tell him he's lying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32000	I estimate that, of course, it wasn't even a violation of the Rules of Procedure, as you know, and I plead to all of you that first we stay away from the ugly words, and it's not my place to judge who's telling the truth and who's not telling the truth. Because if it were mine to judge who's telling the truth and who's not telling the truth, a lot of things would be different. But what I'm asking you all is that we always keep an eye on the interpretation. Because when this "you" is rarely reported, it is not known exactly whether it is referring to a certain person or whether it is thought of a group, a party, etc. And unfortunately it is used in different ways, and in any case it is not good to use bad words for any reason. But the next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Dark Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32001	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's what I have to admit to my colleague Maras, it seemed to me like you woke up from some bad dream, but I've been in energy for 25 years and believe me in that segment, and there's no feeling in that business. There's only elementary mathematics, and now my colleague's texting me, and you're probably not good at that elemental math either. Because I'll remind you you have one debt. You will remember when we talked about tax reform, you made a performance here, so you also offered Croatian citizens your methodology for calculating sugar, oil, salt and so on. So I'm asking you to base these methodologies on people first to explain how expensive it is and whether it even happened. The same methodology is clearly applied today from this pay phone when you claim that the average account of Croatian citizens for gas, which today is 1200 kuna per year, will rise or increase 250 to 0,300 kuna. One of my colleagues just called you the Energy Messiah and the Prophet, because no one dares to predict how the market will function. Because the legality of the market works without even passing the feeling. And another interesting thing that you've said here today is very contradictory. So, while I'm asking you to present to the public the methodology that you've calculated these 250 kunas I'm asking you if you know how many sides there are in the main gas business contract? You don't know, you've never held him in your hand. You're salting your brains here to Croatian citizens, but in this contract, it says that all production must be sold in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and suppliers must buy that total production in the territory of Croatia. Now, you're radical against it. This law abolishes those obligations, you are against this law. I agree with you that you are against everything I agree with you that you will be another long time as an opposition against all these good legal proposals. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32002	Thank you very much. We're way out of time. The Honorable Representative Gordan Maras will respond. [[/Intruder Horvat: Excuse me.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32003	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvat, you're right about the gas business contract. I wish you hadn't held him in your hand, nor Sanader. Oh, no? Because then, as Secretary of State, you prepared Sanader to sign it and Polancec. So I wish you hadn't held him in your hand. Because if you hadn't held it in both Sanader and Polancec now Croatia wouldn't be on arbitration and would not have a potential loss of several billion kunas. You wouldn't have dragged Sanader through the courts for 10m euros. So it would have been good if you hadn't held him. I'm sorry you didn't hold him, or I'm sorry you held him. I wish you hadn't held him, I'm sorry, not Sanader, not Polancec, not these good guys from the energy sector in HDZ, Jozo Petrovic, etc. You probably went through all these analyses with Jozo Petrovic last year when the government crisis was not, because that's the part of Karamarko, Petrovic's friend relationship, and then he probably consulted you because you're an expert in energy, you know that contract well since 2009. On the other hand, if you don't have a feeling I have a feeling, I have feelings for it, and elementary mathematics says that out of 1200 25% if you want the exact data that's 310 kuna, here's how in a second in my head I calculate it which says that I'm very good at math this elemental that doesn't work for you. So you wouldn't, say hello to your friend who's texting you and tell him to take the calculator, that's exactly what I was saying. So 250 to 300 kuna per month, that's the cost our citizens get and where I have feelings, and you don't have feelings. And the fact is that this is an expensive, ugly dream in which I do not wake up but that Croatian citizens will wake up, and in particular they will wake up in the year 1.10.07 when the new heating season and new gas bills start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32004	Thank you. Honorable representative Darko Horvat has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32005	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure in Article 238 were injured, so not only today, but in one continuity, following the presentations of colleagues, Maras is a pile of untruths, and I would ask him if he was already going out with some sort of termology of the time intervals to then try and at least read on the website where Darko Horvat was and what Darko Horvat was doing in 2009. It wasn't Darko Horvat at the time, and the Secretary of State was never Darko Horvat's secretary of state. But fellow Maras in that whole story that we're talking about today, so this story prejudges what's going to happen on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32006	A colleague of Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32007	Electric energy, oil and gas to happen to you is really a media spin that you cheat on Croatian citizens, but what we are aware of you cheat and your voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32008	Comrade Horvath, we understand what you're trying to say. Of course, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure because here we see different accusations on the one hand and on the other, if each were a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then they would probably say that I'm disabling freedom of speech. Therefore, let it be freedom of speech, and the citizens will assess the quality of that freedom of speech here in the Parliament. He has brought up a breach of the Rules of Procedure and a respected representative of Gordan Maras. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32009	Thank you very much. In 238, you did not interrupt your colleague Horvat as soon as you noticed him speaking incorrectly. I apologize, if I said he was a secretary of state, he wasn't. He was the director of the Energy Administration, so I apologize for making you a little more advanced. But he only boasted that the state contract on gas business was in hand, so it wasn't me. But I'm asking you to stop, then, right now, a colleague who's talking about the injury of a Rules of Procedure who wasn't really. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32010	Let me run the session, and not you, I've told you many times, and then I should have interrupted you right away because you said you were wrong and you were wrong. I still let you finish what you wanted to say. So I have to be equal to everyone, right? The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32011	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This comes down to the shooting of left and right, all at the heart of those who use gas. We know that the gas went up, and it's strange that Minister Dobrovic doesn't even know if the gas will collect, and I agree with Mr. Maras that the price of gas will certainly collect. But Mr. Maras said that since I came from the sub-level area where there was a few years ago and the largest gas site in Moldova that provided almost 70.80% of the market throughout Croatia. The sale of INA to MOL practically resulted in a smaller and smaller investment in plants, resulting in no opening of new wells, while at the same time the government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation reduced the concession or mining of the local self-government. Mr. Bulj said he would push for an increase in the mining rent even though he did not want to sign our request when we went on an increase in the mining rent, but I hope that when it comes to the agenda that he will support the increase in the mineral rent of local self-government units because units of local self-government in the part of the Sisak-Moslavina County and Bjelovarko-Bilogor and Virovitical-Podravka will remain an empty wasteland in the agricultural area, and the mining rental went to the most part of the state. And I agree with Mr. Maras that it is necessary to increase the mining rent of local self-government units, and not 3% of how much it is now, but should belong to local self-government units in 100% of the amount, because we know what is the mining rent in Hungary, and we know that we support practically MOL, and we are impoverishing our units of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32012	Thank you very much. The answer to the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32013	Dear colleague Mader, what does shooting mean? Arguing and pointing to certain problems. Well, we can't keep our mouths shut if people's price of gas goes up. So I can't accept the silence and say it's okay when I don't think it's okay. I'm sorry that you're going to support this law that the gas that you're drawing in this way goes more in favour of MOL tomorrow than our citizens and our country, so think about it. Here I will submit an amendment until the end of the debate in this law in such a way that Croatian gas can still be sold only in Croatia, I ask for support. It's not bickering, it's a plea, it's what I think is good for our citizens, at least not until the moment that rent gets up, until the moment LNG is built, when we'll have bigger gas sources and in the Republic of Croatia when that price will certainly be less sensitive to whether someone in Italy is going to sell or not. Until that moment, we have nothing to change this provision that our gas can be sold at a more expensive price in Italy or anywhere. So if the price is 2.5 times higher in Italy than in Croatia, it is logical that all the gas that is exploited in the northern Adriatic will end up in Italy. Why would I let that happen? What makes MOST and HDZ and unfortunately I heard today and you as a club reps support this idea? I don't support it, it's not shooting, it's just what I think is right and I hope you support me in that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32014	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Mare Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32015	Dear colleague Maras, the consequences of the conduct of this country's energy policy by your government will be felt for a long time, it is not controversial and the citizens will certainly feel it in a certain way and they will, of course, know it publicly and know it. The best example of energy policymaking on your part is the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. In just 3 or 4 years of your reign, you have succeeded in putting this institution that has never had financial problems in debt for 700 million kunas that we had to secure in the 2017 budget. And this law that we are making must be understood in a way that we have accepted EU membership and the liberalisation that is gradually entering is only one way to read that this government is still thinking about not opening the sector completely to everyone. What else was I gonna say? You mentioned concession contracts, so concession contracts were concluded during your government. Well, the one who knows fundamentally the law knows that every contract to break up has certain consequences. Are you willing to accept the consequences of ending these concession contracts on such a low concession fee? So the concession contracts you've concluded, and now we're suffering because of it, and that's... that we should wait for their expiry, when they expire then there will be ways to deal with it in a better and more favourable way for the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32016	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32017	Thank you very much. You said again, probably not on purpose, one inaccuracy, so concession contracts have been concluded since the '90s, some before that. INA's been exploiting gas for decades, so it's not true what you're saying. The fact is that we've made concession fees to 10% after she was, I think 5% before that. And you need to keep working. What I said at that point, I think you should raise the concession fee or the royalty on the exploitation. That's no problem. Under certain conditions, this can be done in some of the contracts that stand out and should be done. So this is where the cost should be adjusted, I would say the income of the state units of local self-government and not do so and not allow that gas to be sold outside of Croatia until all this is brought together. Which would make the concession fee higher and cheaper in Hungary than in the Republic of Croatia. And now we will come up with a paradoxical situation that MOL will have benefit directly from what you are proposing here today and that indirectly more benefits will be given to Croatian, or Hungarian citizens than Croatian citizens. So that's what I'm talking about. Don't look behind you because finding excuses why you can't do something is the easiest thing to do. So don't do what I just said, don't let INA and MOL have extra incomes that are measured in billions of kunas per year on our mining wealth. That's all I ask of you. I would support the two-armed law if there wasn't this provision that INA could sell our gas in Italy, only that those provisions were gone. So you let go of what happened in the '90s, '95, 2000, that's nice to remind but it's not living, it's living off a gas bill that's gonna come in 1.10 this year and it's gonna be 300 kuna bigger than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32018	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the distinguished representative Darko Horvat will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32019	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The draft law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act is governed by a new model of the market which, truth not entirely but leads towards the liberalisation of the gas market in the Republic of Croatia as part of the single integrated EU energy market. At the same time, this law ensures the implementation of several European Commission regulations. So Regulation No 3/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2008 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1037/2006 (OJ L 335, 30.12.2008, p. 1). 312 setting up network rules on the balance of the gas transport system and the application of standardised capacity allocation mechanisms of the transport system, Regulation 1227 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market and Commission Regulation No. 703 on the establishment of network rules of intermobility, data exchange and the harmonisation of the methodology of the work of transmission system operators both in the Republic of Croatia and interconnected throughout the EU, and all with the aim of the legislator to establish a more liberalised and secure and stable gas market in the Republic of Croatia, which, primarily for the Republic of Croatia, should ensure better priced conditions for gas supply and supply, more accessible and secure supply of this energy, as well as a simpler choice and change of suppliers. This law allows the Ministry of Energy, in cooperation with the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and the gas market operator, to choose the supplier on the wholesale gas market through a public tender, i.e. through public competition of the choice and ultimately after receiving the report from the Croatian gas market in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This law lays down that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, after a public tender has been carried out, designate a supplier on a wholesale market that is required under regulated conditions to sell gas to suppliers in the public service of supply with which it has concluded a gas supply contract for the purposes of customers who have the right to supply in public service obligations, which are exclusively final customers in the category of household. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the agreement of the designated supplier agency, will set a priority for the implementation of the reservation and distribution process of the capacity of the gas storage system, and in the transitional period which we hope will last only during 2017 until the selection of suppliers on the wholesale market imposes that obligation on Croatia's electricity companies. New, this law, the market model presented, removes the obligation of suppliers in public service obligations, primarily or compulsory to buy gas from the gas producer, and the lack of gas from traders, and from other suppliers on the organised gas market or from imports. The removal of the obligation on the gas producer to offer the total production of natural gas primarily or necessarily to gas suppliers on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which has so far been considered a limiting factor for the opening of the gas market in the Republic of Croatia is one of the papers provided for by this legal solution, which we consider in the HDZ club one of the preconditions for one day the full liberalisation of the gas market. In addition to the steps that undoubtedly lead to liberalisation, what we welcome and what is good in this legislative proposal, the Government leaves itself and its hands with control mechanisms and control mechanisms. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry, will, for a certain period of time, not be able to designate a wholesaler on a wholesale market that is required under regulated conditions to sell gas to suppliers in public service for the needs of customers in the category of household, and to ensure a reliable and secure supply including gas imports. The second mechanism left by the government in its own hands is the possibility that, on a proposal from the Ministry, by a decision of no longer than three years, the natural gas producer in the Republic of Croatia shall be determined by no longer than the obligation to sell natural gas under regulated conditions to the supplier in the wholesale market supplying suppliers in the public service of the supply category of household. Also, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry, may, for a designated supplier on the wholesale market selling gas to public service suppliers for the needs of customers of the category of households, set a priority when carrying out the reservation and allocation of the capacity of the gas storage system. The fourth mechanism is the possibility for the Government to re-determine, on a proposal from the Ministry, the price of natural gas produced by the natural gas producer in the area of the Republic of Croatia for a period of no more than three years to sell both the supplier and the wholesale market that sells gas to suppliers in the public service of the supply category of household customers. The fifth mechanism incorporated into this law is the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry, may, for a period of no longer than three years, set the price of gas at which the supplier on the wholesale market is obliged to sell gas to public service suppliers in order to protect it from excessive market prices of gas or gas market disturbances. Of course, all this government can bring to the ministry's proposal only at times when it has a positive opinion from the energy regulator. This law also provides for a transitional period during which Croatia's electricity industry will carry out its activities in the wholesale gas market until the supplier's determination on the wholesale gas market. In the same transitional period, the law determines that instead of the 70 % current capacity of the underground gas storage system for the wholesaler, the provisions in question are reduced and only 60% are, and thus we offer additional storage capacity and supplies to the market, which either appears in the category of household supply system, give us a more flexible option and balance of the system and increase the supply security segment. The Act lays down in the transitional period that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry, and with the opinion of HERA by 1 April 2017, a decision on the maximum gas price under which the supplier on the wholesale gas market is obliged to sell gas to suppliers in a public service obligation for household customers, including those energy operators, legal and natural persons who supply domestic heat from the gas to households according to the law governing the consumer supply system to heat energy. In order to develop the gas market based on the provisions of this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, by a decision and, again, on a proposal from the Ministry and with the agreement of the Agency, determine a derogation from the allocation of 60% of storage facilities to suppliers on the wholesale gas market in favour of the public service provider which has decided to supply gas to customers who have the right to supply public service obligations. It is very important to note for the duration of the current contractual obligations of the decision to determine the obligation of the natural gas producer, the sale of the same supplier on the wholesale market to be valid on the market in the Republic of Croatia until 1 April 2017. This legislative proposal imposes an obligation on distributors to separate regulated from market activities. The same water activities as two independent and completely separate accounting categories, the law also regulates the concession rights system for gas distribution and construction of the distribution system, which cannot be issued for a period of less than 20 years, by limiting the maximum duration of the concession to 50 years, with the possibility of extending it, with the consent of the National Energy Operator, HERA. The legislative proposal before us obliges the national HERA regulator to develop a transparent methodology for the determination of the price of gas balance energy, as far as possible based on market bases, and also the methodology in question must establish an equation for the determination of the reference gas price for the Croatian market. Taking into account all the necessary preconditions for the existence and sustainability of the liberalised gas and overall energy market, such as the deregulation of energy prices for the final buyer of a system for the protection of threatened customers, the development of the wholesale market for energy, the provision of a simple methodology for changing suppliers, the availability of domicillary production of energy suppliers under equal conditions, and many others are only a step in the effort to integrate the Croatian energy market into the EU single market, and it functions on the basis of a harmonised legislative framework, which is a prerequisite for one day, perhaps not all but at least some energy operators who wish to expand their activity beyond the borders of the same rights and obligations to become regional players in the energy sector. On the basis of all of this, we consider a legitimate proposal from the Government that the legislation in the adoption goes according to an emergency procedure, and primarily in order to meet the requirements of suppliers for the reservation of storage capacity of gas, since all parameters regarding the purchase of standard storage facilities packages must be pre-known to the participants in the gas market. Please honoring colleagues and colleagues, representatives, to accept the fact that the underground storage of gas is being filled from April to October, and we will have an emergency procedure before the season of filling the warehouse for the next heating or so on. the gas season shall prevent gas filling disturbances of the underground storage plant, thereby ensuring the safe supply of gas primarily to the buyer of the category of household, and ensure the smooth balance of the gas transport system. This legislative proposal will be supported by all of the above-mentioned HDZ Representatives' Clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32020	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. She is the first to be respected representative of Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32021	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Horvat, listening to statements by both the minister and the secretary of state, especially yesterday on the Open, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have heard nothing new about how much they will collect, which and how. But there are a few dilemmas in this part of the bill's reasoning that I believe you may know as a coalition partner. It means establishing a system of protection for vulnerable customers, further creating technical preconditions for changing gas suppliers at household level, the possibility of introducing a transitional period. How long should this transitional period take? In fact, I think it would all be very interesting not only to the households, primarily to them. Furthermore, you have come into politics as a minister from the economy, I have heard nothing about whether in this part of the media in general what kind of reflections will have on the economy itself, especially on gas collection specifically, means in particular the processing sector that we are most represented in the north of Croatia. And according to the information I own that comes to me now, many are for the cost of energy is very risky business. It's mostly about exporters, you're very well aware of it, the state is preparing what's normal as a social state, whether it's also thinking about trying in some way to also deregulate prices or regulate gas prices, energys in some way also to bring down economics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32022	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32023	Well, thank you very much. I will dare and say constructive questions, unlike all of these here today, strange thesis that have neither head nor tail these are too many questions and this is agreeing to the concern of the Croatian economy. So, I would say almost in all EU countries, and I'm sorry that it's not like that in the Republic of Croatia, the price of gas for the economy is less than the price of gas for households. I, as someone who comes and who in this formal education has some kind of energy base, would also want to spend my entire life fighting to make it so in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, the transitional period on which you asked the question is neither dependent on the government nor depending on the month two, three or five because we are going to a public tender. You know very well and as head of local self-government the moment you start a public procurement system there are those who will complain, there is a commission on these complaints must give answers. I am sure that even at the moment of the public competition and the choice of suppliers by such a methodology, we will have those who will complain and we will have those who will not be satisfied with the final decisions. There may also be administrative disputes and court proceedings. But what's also a fact we have a stable and quality supplier for the wholesale market during that transitional time period and that's HEP. I ask you that, not only you, but all colleagues not to be here, and especially to Croatian citizens we do not try, I would say sell or place information or conclusions that we come to with a very casual and not methodological approach to price setting, so even in this law we just need to read it. In this law, there is a obligation to the regulator, to create methodologies, equations, formulas that will have their own inputs and input parameters, which will then define the lowest or maximum price to be able to talk about it. Until that moment, until the end of that methodology, I'm asking you not to talk about prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32024	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32025	Thank you very much Mr. Horvat, as you cry out for constructive questions here I will ask you one question because I know that you are well-advised, I have now looked online, the government has resolved you in 5.1.2012 at the second session of the Government of Zoran Milanović, you are relieved of the position of Director of the Ministry of Energy of the Economy, and as such you participated in the creation of the gas business contract, the gas business signed by Ivo Sanader for which we are in court and we are in arbitration with MOL, so please tell us what it was necessary for that country to sign with INA and MOL, because, for example, in 2009, MOL reported 100 million dollars of gas loss on imported gas and sued us for arbitration, so the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens for some 2.5 billion kuna in that period of 2009, 2010 and 2011. At the same time INA, i.e. MOL as majority owner, made a yearly profit from gas in Croatia in view of the royality that was at the time 3.5% which I was also interested in, here you can tell why you didn't share the royality at least 10% as raised by the Government of Zoran Milanovic was earning $3 hundred million a year profit both in 2009 and in 2010 and 2011. So during this period, INA, or MOL, earned a billion dollars and at the same time asked the Republic of Croatia for about $4,400 million more in compensation for the losses allegedly incurred in the gas business. Why did you propose to Evey Sanader and Mr. Polancec to sign that contract? And do you think that you would do it again, and do you think that this is really right, which is why Croatia is now being tried with MOL on international arbitration and which is probably, or not likely, but which it has lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32026	Thank you. The Honorable representative Darko Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32027	Comrade Maras, I'm staying at the thesis that you're lost in space and time. I remain with the thesis that the dates you are talking about with common sense and logic have nothing to do with it because it is very simple for you to check who participated and in what way in the construction and who was the director of the energy administration at the time of the signing. My colleague Maras, I'm not going to say that your math is going badly, but you're doing badly in Croatia too, so you just have to read it, nothing else. Like those thesis that you put out in fear there are no mechanisms, no insurance, no price modeling in law and five were implemented inside. So at that moment, colleague Maras, who you're talking about, Darko Horvat was the director of the craftsman's office, had no influence or preparation of the contract. But fellow Maras, it's my area of interest, and I'm reading it and I'm going to read it. And Zoran Milanovic did not make a decision to increase the royalti. In that same contract, one day you'll come and you'll be interested and you'll read it a little bit. It says exactly how this fee will be raised year after year. It says right inside, you just need to take a little time and not deal with some things casually, because these flat-rate things and such flat-rate conclusions create one questionable situation especially among those people who fear that this methodology that is in the making will certainly increase the price of gas. Well, fellow Maras, when you open the market, you remember that two years ago we had the price of a barrel of oil of $150, so at one point we had the price of a barrel of oil of $28, so today it's about 40 and a few. Do you have any mechanism affecting the price? Do you have any mechanism to influence the price of methodology that I think is good and price alignment with the same prices in the Mediterranean, so in Genoa and Rotterdam, follow what happens in the Republic of Croatia? And yet another great ignorance I must honor you here. This insinuation in Hungary is cheaper and more expensive in Croatia, so give Croatian citizens the opportunity to buy the price or gas at the price as well as those in Hungary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32028	Thank you. You're way out of time, thank you. We can calm down a little bit first, so yes, the tile. Don't throw your friend Maras! The panel for the breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32029	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. A Rules of Procedure which says that MPs should not be demeaned or offended. Representative Horvat claimed that MP Maras had no common sense and that he could not speak Croatian. I think that's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32030	Thank you. You showed up here a little later, obviously in the assembly, unfortunately the words were going down and the words were going down a little bit by colleagues of Maras about their fellow Horvat and each other. I've both drawn attention to that being inappropriate, but nowhere, if I were to interrupt anyone who's a little bit harder to say that kind of guy, I'm afraid that everyone would warn me to suppress freedom of speech. Therefore, I estimate no injured Rules of Procedure. Now the replica will be told by its esteemed representative, Mladen Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32031	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Horvat, you've listed a number of consumer protection mechanisms in line, but I would specifically ask you. At a net meeting of five counties in connection with an increase in the mining rent, we were informed that the government of the Republic of Croatia signed an agreement with the MOL that there was no increase in the mining rent by 2025. So I'm specifically asking if it's true or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32032	Thank you. The Honorable representative Darko Horvat will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32033	Well, I have to admit that if such a contract occurred in these last four or five years I don't know about it, but I do know that one of the additions to the gas business contract defines exactly how and by what dynamics the compensation increases, the concession fee for gas extraction in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, given that the contract was declassified in 2011. So until that moment and that the moment Darko Horvat took over, the management of the Energy Authority was no longer secret. So we put all these contracts transparently on the public eye and I beg you, here's the information I can give later. So, I don't know about this decision, but in this supplement, it seems to me that in Appendix C there is a beautiful table in which you can see exactly what is the dynamics of the increase in that concession fee, and everything related to gas extraction in the territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32034	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32035	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Horvat, here before today's debate I read your party's program on behalf of whose club you spoke which is called credible. On the page of your 41st program, you listed how you would invest in gas infrastructure, in the Adriatic-Ionian pipeline, in the LNG terminal, in the underground warehouse Grubisno polje, and among other things, you stated that you would ensure a more affordable supply of gas or lower gas prices. And we now see after less than 4 months of this government that you will increase the price of gas by 15 to 20%. Is this some of the reforms you've been talking about all the time, so you're increasing pensions for 15 kunas, workers by one 20 to 30 kuna, and monthly amounts of gas, their accounts for an average of 300 to 400 kuna for some families, and perhaps even more. So here I am interested, therefore, in how this programme is being implemented and how Croatian citizens will feel the well-being of these measures that you are now taking, so you are further breaking their standard and thus encouraging them to leave the country. Because here we have heard in recent days that as many as 77% of young people plan to move out of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32036	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32037	Thank you, pal Bunjac. In this replica of yours, unlike several previous ones, in these last two, three weeks there is a lot of truth, and the truth is that, the only truth is that you read in the Croatian Democratic Community programme on page 41, everything else is insinuation again. And I'm going to ask you the same question that I asked my colleague Marasa. Give this House perhaps even to the secretary of state, and primarily to Croatian citizens present this methodology by the foundations which your insinuations on increasing gas in the household category are somewhere between 25.30%. So I'm warning you again read the bill. The draft law, amending and supplementing the obligation for the Croatian regulator to methodologically identify these price items explicitly by means of a methodological equation. Until then, I ask you to stay away from such flat-rate statements because they are populist, the same as you presented two weeks ago in the segment as granting scholarships to students who received these scholarships not from the state budget, but from the European Commission's funds and it was the first and radical turn in financing deficits in the Republic of Croatia. I'm gonna do it again, and now I'm gonna leave myself alone, or I'm gonna leave those 30 seconds that I've hardened so far. So, I ask you as responsible parliamentary representatives, that we leave the price story until the moment the methodology is produced that will define these prices. This kind of flat-rate insinuation is just the confusion of not only the people, not just our voters, but all of us sitting here because it turns out that no one but two MPs has read the amendments and additions to the Gas Market Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32038	Thank you very much. The next replica of the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32039	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Horvat, I have listened carefully to your expert debate, and I can truly say that for every commendation, and I am glad that you have listed these mechanisms that are related to the protection, so the ultimate protection of gas customers. What we could certainly say as an EU member must be adopted by some of the rules we have already signed. And with that, we shouldn't even have doubts about liberalisation and market law. I also agree with you to take an example if we decide to plant the next few thousand acres of olive oil, that does not mean that in ten years the price of olive oil will fall, so that's a little wider area. And maybe in the short term, I don't know now it's about to get gas in the short term, maybe that's what's going to happen, after 2008 to 2015, the domestic gas has increased by 73%. something happened with liberalisation in the business area where the price of gas fell. But one thing that worries me more than all of this, and here is the secretary of state, and these are small distributors, actually local distributors that have about 30 units of local self-government somewhere. There's one problem about liberalisation, one danger that they'll simply disappear. It will come to a scene of great players who will be able to offer those conditions that these can't. And it's maybe I don't know in this legal proposal whether it's been taken care of, if you don't need to take care because the truth is that these companies, I know here at my county Gas VTC Virovitica has entered some kind of investment. They're even in charge of 8.5 million kuna credit to invest, they'll actually be a great success if they're in that clean market game. Here's what I wanted to do as a contribution to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32040	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32041	Yes, but this is the way we discuss it, so we're sure we've read the bill and we know what we want to discuss. This is one of the problems that has now been reversible since the moment when we really wanted to liberalize the story and when we wanted to let just about everyone deal with the distribution and supply of gas. We got in the gas business or in the gas sector 38 distributors, today we're forcing them to separate distribution and supply activities, which I think is good and excellent. We'll get 38 suppliers that will be a variety of properties. Some will be owned by local self-government units, some will be in mixed ownership, some will be owned by private suppliers. The fact is that the small ones have problems because the Croatian transport system operator for the reservation of certain quantities of gas is looking for bank guarantees, and these small suppliers of that bank guarantee are not able to obtain, especially those whose business is going slightly worse. As a result, this law also provides a large part of the story that concessions on the construction of a distribution system and network will no longer be subject to the wishes of local self-government units but to the needs of the development of a gas distribution system and of a secure supply system. What is now a desire to enable such weak suppliers to join together and to perform together on the market, which will make it easier for them to obtain a bank guarantee and provide all those financial mechanisms to be in one good correlation with Plinar as a Croatian transport system operator.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32042	Thank you very much. The last replica is that of distinguished representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32043	Thank you very much. Comrade Horvat, you have seen how quickly a colleague from the SDP has listened to him, says 25% of the 1200 kuna is 310 kuna, a quarter of 1200 is 310 and so they count their entire mandate. And when the public debt grew by 100 billion and we asked them what you spent it on, we don't remember anything and we don't know what we were doing with it. That's how they behave in their discussions here because we've heard that they've been sympathetic to the citizens all along in his debate, he's been sympathetic all along. And he forgot that he was the minister who raised his hand to the government in 27.4.2012, at points 11 and 12, the increase in energy prices meant 22%, the increase in gas prices 20%. There was no methodology, there were no protective mechanisms, there was no mechanism to pay, and there was a stake in the future as one of the other colleagues said, it was a better future for you, so it was. Today we listen to this, that this is no good, that we're cheating, that we're lying, that we don't know how to say the calculation. And why do they do that? They leave us a billion kuna in the Environmental Protection Fund, two years we can't call a single competition because they said they did a good and legal job. Here's to getting rid of the gentlemen in power. You're here now. We remember when they liberalized the oil market, we drove at 11 kuna prices for a liter of gasoline, we drove at 8.5 kuna. When we asked them why the gasoline was 11 kuna, they said what you wanted, so we can't influence it anymore. We're trying to influence through the law, we're trying, we're offering a methodology they say here you'll raise 25% of the fortune. I'm not surprised at them. Their prime minister doesn't remember anything for more than a year we saw it in one court. My colleague Maras doesn't remember anything from yesterday to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32044	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32045	Thanks to my colleague, Boric, for a reminder, I am sorry, though, for the now respected representative Maras is no longer here, so I will skip what I wanted to say about the mandate in which he acted as minister and was in the ministerial post. But what's the fact here is in one of the replicas was the fact that in Hungary the gas is sold or the final customers buy it at 25% lower, and they don't have their own domestic production. And all the time here in this debate we're fighting with a few contradictory statements that cannot possibly be part of the same conclusion. So, yes, in Hungary, the price of gas is currently on the market moving somewhere 20, 25% lower than the Republic of Croatia because the price of supply and supply to them is what it is. And looking at all the components of which are both the final price of both the market and the two regulated and regulated transmission and distribution systems, let us not forget that because of this, the Republic of Hungary had previously entered the EU for 9 or 10 years, it had built its transport system Hungary and the Hungarian transport system operator with EU funds of between 60% and 80%. All our transport infrastructure was built from tariffs and paid by final customers. To finally turn that dynamic around and turn it around is my wish, and I am sure that today's energy resorts will quickly reach the modality where we, too, will build our energy infrastructure with the European Commission's resources. And just because we're on the so-called. the total LNG terminal list 50% of the terminal will be financed by foreign money, and the other 50% in one financial model that I am sure will not additionally burden the gas price for the final buyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32046	Thank you very much. We will now go to the next club of representatives and this is the one "Let's Change Croatia" in the name of which the distinguished representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I also welcome Mr Chikotić, the distinguished MPs and MPs, by the way, I don't know what time the story of important things is repeated in the way this is an EU directive, we need to adapt and therefore we are automatically limited to thinking in this context. So, gentlemen, do we even know what the EU is today? So from day to day dramatic geostrategic and geopolitical changes take place in front of our eyes especially the arrival of President Trump's administration in America. However, at first I should say any liberalisation of anything if it is not well thought out and assessed its positive, and in particular the negative effects, unless the mechanisms for correction of negative influences have been developed, such liberalisation can simply be harmful. And since I have not seen, even during the presentation of this law, and even in the debate of such mechanisms, I am not prepared to support this law. Why? For a few reasons I'm going to say. So please ask yourselves, what is liberalisation today? What's liberalisation today? Mali Ivica imagines liberalisation as a free market where now a bunch of gas providers will compete, and then those who run through their pipes transport channels and they compete. Then as citizens and businesses, we get cheaper gas. So small Ivica imagines a modern market and this EU gas market. But it's not like that. And I am glad that my colleague, Žagar, had noticed a little earlier, presented an exact fact that after the liberalisation of the gas market in Europe, his price was collected in a few years about 70%, or let's see what the picture looks like outside of this House, outside this small country of Croatia. In Europe, gas supply of Europe depends on one-third of Russia. Russia is the leader of energy not only in Europe but also wider. Therefore, it plays a key role in determining the price of gas. Before I explain a few things, I can't say the following: the liberalisations are as they were carried out in Croatia only harming this people. You remember when we liberalized the banking market. 90% are foreign owners. The highest interest rates of all EU member states have Croatia and there we shot and spent you citizens looking at this about 70 billion kuna cost a recovery. It is the absolutely historically the largest price paid by the Croatian people. We liberalized Telekom as little children again, little Hansel. What did we have after that? The most expensive impulses gentlemen in Europe. So those of you who say today that the price of gas will be cheaper, imagine yourself better. They talked so that the milk would be cheaper. Our producers are gone, gentlemen. It's liberalisation. There's no liberalisation. She's actually a process that runs the cartel. And what do you want to do now in the field of energy? So he wants to put his paws on both the energy sector and some people sitting here understand what I mean and what I'm saying, because they felt it. The next step is HEP. Because when you liberalize this market, you can't say you don't want electricity? Yeah? They're stories for little kids. It may even be the first year, two, three, and it's cheaper, but then comes the higher price. Why? Because a cartel is being created and then we say now we're the main players. Now let me get back to this story. Who today is the most important gas supplier ever more important? One company that had several million kunas four, five years ago now has billions of kunas. Be careful she has a strategic agreement with Gazprom or she still has it, I don't know it exactly now and it is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia or with Eonon from Germany. So when we talk about the geopolitical situation, geopolitical relations in this case with Russia, let's take a few examples of what it looks like. Hungarians - what do the Hungarians do? They're building a nuke with the Russians. The Germans brought one whole gas pack from Russia to themselves. Slovenians also benefit from cooperation with the Russians, and if we are correct with these statements, we put... there near the border. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our foreign policy in the context of achieving energy interests here is something fat, gentlemen. We suffer damage in all areas while another wolf is using for his nations, for his countries, and everything under the umbrella of the common embargo policy towards Russia. The exits are in the supply of new gas channels, LNG, the southern current we saw what happened to him. However, in order to build LNG, we must have pre-booked contracts for customers, not for us to pay, and for us such an investment would be too much. So, here things are clearly set up when we look at the level of Europe, and in this context we have to think about it too. So we need to review these relations of individual countries, states in this case according to the main gas supply, and then discuss it. The arrival of the Donald Trump administration significantly changes the world's relations, and therefore the EU, and therefore needs to be very serious here. And now to get back to the law itself. Proposer doesn't have scripts after liberalisation, no. Well, they rely on our experience, which was what I said in banking, telecoms, etc. We can really expect a rise in the price of gas. Then what are the control mechanisms? How do we protect the citizens? There's no such answer. Croatia is currently producing 55% of domestic gas sources, and it can be about 80%. But why don't you rise again to 80% you see the talks about it gone, because energy policy has been scattered over the past ten years by people, the political elites that led this country. And today we have brought into a world that is changing, brought into a situation that we must clothe, or make something new. In that context, I am convinced that there will be a safe rise in gas prices and that will be a problem. We'll be in that context I said I'll be against this bill, because things have to be put in place. Liberalisation does not necessarily mean changing prices, i.e. it means changing prices, but does not mean that it will be more favourable to obtaining. So if we only took Petrokemia, be careful to get out of this context how it will affect her. We're losing control. Here it's said that the extraction of gas is an imam, we never know, in fact the INA data you can't get how much it costs to extract gas, and how much it means to earn. I've been reading some texts about it. We heard about the rent. So it was the lowest rent. That's where the state and the citizens got damaged. Well, that wasn't enough either, so we should leave everything to others, we don't know anything, and that's it. And here I look at some people, even yelling terrible. Well, you gentlemen have done it before. Yeah? You're scary, because the ease you're offering a solution is terrifying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32048	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32049	Thank you very much. Professor, you mentioned market liberalisation as one of the problems. I agree with you, market liberalisation is not a goal in itself. It is one framework for achieving the objective and therefore very important corrective elements are within the market liberalisation process. And what's the point? In my view, cheaper gas for households and industry is the goal of security of the supply of the Croatian gas market. You mentioned Russia as well. Yes, the Russian formula is crucial in formulating the price of gas. It's called Russia because Russia has the world's largest gas reserves and has a dominant effect on the price of gas, especially the one in Europe. And that is why bilaterals with the Russian Federation cannot be ignored and therefore every activity of the Croatian government must be seen in the foreign-political field from that perspective as well. Ensuring the gas market, i.e. ensuring gas supply to the Croatian market, is very important. It is the key to foreign policy today in Croatia. And that's why our government has been trying and lobbying in its own time, and we're asking this government so-called. The gas pipeline... So the Adriatic-Ionian gas pipeline that would bring the gas from Azerbaijan to Croatia to diversify it is, supply routes and suppliers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So not only the Russian Federation, but in this case Azerbaijan. Gas explorations in the Croatian Adriatic are as important as LNG. These are all projects that are essential for Croatia, not just one of them. And if we want to have a liberalized market, we have to have corrective factors to achieve the fundamental objective. So, the goal is cheap electricity for industry and households and the goal is to secure the supply of Croatian gas from different sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32050	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32051	We all agree that we have cheaper electricity, cheaper gas, and that we are not dependent on one supplier. Well, that's what Europe wants. Europe is energized entirely. I agree with you that we need to diversify the supply channels south flow, that's all Adriatic-Ionian, that's stalled. The LNG we need, but before we have purchase contracts, otherwise we can't finance it ourselves. But there's no doubt about it. But I think you'll agree with me that if we don't have those things settled, the preconditions, that we don't know how things are, that we don't have scenarios, so who's forcing us to settle this by 1.4, or by the end of the 4th month. But it was part of politics and so far let's do it so we'll see how it goes, you know. And that's what we'll see, we've seen that before, I've told the banks, we've seen it in Telekom, in agricultural products, and at the time, there's a strong process of protectionism in the world. And over the years, we will see how regions and countries close to customs barriers, protectionism visible, and especially invisible especially towards China, this will be led by America, it has already begun to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32052	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32053	Thank you, Vice President. Professor Lovrinović, I'll look back on our gas. You said that Croatia has about 55 to 60% of Croatian gas, we used to have 80% of Croatian gas. And I ask the question of what kind of gas crisis are we in? Not at all. And what you mentioned about the price of gas extraction is important to know. So we have some estimates that if we went into research we'd probably achieve 80% gas extraction, it wouldn't be 100% in the hands of I don't know Russian gas or anything else, so we have this one substance that we can use probably and very, very cheaply for our citizens. If we liberalised it then we would have prices as determined by the market, not the Croatian state. So then we look at the gas-related PPD society astronomically growing, and INA and MOL fall into that part, and how it's your thinking why these are falling, why these are growing or having high prices so we're well growing or robbing our citizens with our gas that we probably have more than we're talking about 55, 60%. And my thinking as a businessman is that we should master our assets with gas, rule as one real economy, and never have a problem with gas. Fortunately, we have enough in Croatia, so we do not have to be dependent on others. Why would they import it if they didn't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32054	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32055	So here's fellow Misic, the first finding in this country was not a creative economy but a commercial one. So you see this concept is a commercial economy. Here, the key question is not how to increase the production of domestic gas to 80% again, but how to benefit from certain commercial interests, how to practically implement it, and there is no question about production. I read some data probably from a few years ago, that the price of gas extraction in Croatia is about 70 drops to one kuna, and then sold for kuna more, delivery. Now I don't know that formula, so it's obviously a business secret and I don't know, some people might know, it's more expensive to pull out in the Adriatic because the terrain is different, etc. But the emphasis is that I don't get involved in this data, I really didn't have any insight, so I can't really talk about it, they're not right, but the key thing is that we're leaving the production part, we're letting go and what we can do, we're leaving it to others, and then we expect that tomorrow or next year we'll live better, we'll get cheaper products, services, etc. So if we haven't had enough examples to see in the past few years, then no one's learned anything. We have suffered a lot of damage, and that is why it is time to finally trade, to reconsider our position within the EU in relation to China, the United States. And I've already spoken to such conversations in this House, this is a trade conversation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32056	Thank you very much. And the last replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32057	Mr. Lovrinović, you are a wise man, you were also a Dean of the Faculty of Economics, I have one question for you. Please tell me what economic logic is that we are importing gas at four times the price of our own gas sold to the Italians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32058	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32059	Well, look, I'll answer you with the opposite answer. When I thought about ten years ago why in this country, there's an economic policy that hurts Croatia, whether we know it, whether there's enough knowledge, intelligence here, so I had a problem with myself thinking that I don't understand things. And then I said, put yourself in the position of Italians, Austrians or someone else to see what that would look like from there. You know what I figured out? There is no better model of economic policy than the one that works in Croatia, and therefore this one when you talk about the gas market. This is a question that you asked a matter of elemental logic. But let the citizens who see us answer that question whether they are willing to continue to tolerate the policies that have been conducted, and it has remained more or less the same or to support people as a new alternative to this political scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32060	Thank you. And indeed now the last, the replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32061	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Lovrinović, you are a professor of economics at the Faculty of Zagreb, please try to explain to me what the intensity is in fact government with that it allows cheap Croatian gas to be sold in Italy at a higher price. On the other hand, the gas will have to be replaced on the Croatian market somehow. So the only logic that led them to number one is to help INA make a bigger profit, a higher profit. But on the other hand, space will also be opened for importers who will have to replace the gas that will now be sold outside, which, unfortunately, if the price is higher and the selling price for customers, Croatia's citizens will have to subsidise somehow. There won't be a situation where there'll be gas shortages. So Croatia will in some ways be valued for taking this gas difference from suppliers and subsidising this difference which will be up to the price that suppliers sell to the Republic of Croatia. What is economic logic there, and why are HDZ and Most doing it? What do they do that for? I really can't understand that. There may be some hidden reasons, perhaps the European Commission is pressing, perhaps the price of repairing relations with Russia is paid, and that is possible. So there's a million reasons, but we don't know those reasons. The only thing we know is that Croatian citizens will pay a higher price and that Hungarians, MOL, INA will have more income than they had yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32062	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32063	Thank you, colleague Maras, for this matter. When you ask what logic that makes? I mean, that logic exists, but it's at the expense of Croatian citizens. Here I am glad that your party has finally received good logic, meaning that we are changing something, because unfortunately you, not yourself, but both sides have followed that logic before. God forbid it's now, these are good signs. But to be more specific, so we're not talking outside this context. This is our common interest. We have to protect the citizens. So let's gather around this elemental logic, about common sense, let's not let the citizens in the future be exposed to the uncertainty of the liberalised market that little Ivica thinks it's going to be all right, much cheaper. And then when the thunder breaks out of the clear sky, then it's a Croatian practice already seen, and what do we do now? He's looking for rescue channels, protection mechanisms, credits, etc. So let's focus on our production, go back, we don't actually have energy policies, we have to start from that. We're getting by. Let's specifically create energy policy, protect what we have in the context of what we can because we have some contracts. We must be aware of that, but I have told you other nations how they do their interests, even when it comes to the embargo. We have to start acting differently. It's that we're a small country, but we can't afford to glide and protect our resources, let's use them to our advantage, not damage. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32064	Thank you very much. We will now move to the next club of representatives, which is the one of the HNS and HSU in the name of which the distinguished representative Ivan Vrdoljak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32065	Thank you very much, Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. So the content and intensity of this law is very correct. And the law of the same content can be both bad and good in application because it depends significantly on what will follow in the steps following the adoption of a law, on how to apply, on the adoption of regulations. And that's why we don't need to talk about the content of this law about the thesis of the general economic, but just try to give the fact if we want to talk seriously in this House. The Croatian gas market was liberalised 8 years ago. And this has nothing to do with liberalisation. We today 70% of the Croatian market is completely separate from our policies, government, parliament. Petrochemy in competitions is now buying whether or not this law will pass. 75% of the market has been functioning for many long, long years completely free and nothing is being further liberalised now. And 25% of the market was also free in the past law only as defined was the price, the regulated price of non-freedom. So if someone brought in cheaper, they could sell. And tomorrow, when the government makes a decision Thursday, it will only say the agreed price, and if anyone comes with cheaper gas in Croatia, they can sell it. And that's a fact of fact for people. Let's start with a realistic analysis of the situation. The Croatian gas market has been liberalised two thousand I mean nine years and this is no liberalisation whatsoever. It's not even derivated, it's not even done because it's going to be redefined, and that's why it's good to say what the situation is today. We're fighting the gas market primarily because of our relationship with the INA. It's all because the problem is how you're going to use your domestic production in a smart way. And I'm going to give some answers here to some of the questions that came before in the debate. It should be clear that the Croatian gas market is now at two and a half billion cubic metres, that domestic production is at 1.2, 1.3 and that no one has ever made the cost of production in Croatia. Hungary determined it a year, two days ago. We can take them. 11 euros per megawatt hour, to inform some who do not know, 11 euros per megawatt hour. Today's market price is 19. And they go out with their domestic gas on their market with 11 euros, but that won't define people's laws. People won't define the law. The law only gives the framework, it will define the government in the next steps. But let's say we have one problem. Now all of a sudden, and it makes me very happy that most of the assembly says turn to domestic production. Why don't we have 90% of the production? Why didn't we invest in oil and gas exploration and exploitation? Why are we talking about INA you didn't invest enough to secure domestic production not with 11 euros and 19 is the market. 40% cheaper. And I remember a few years ago, not so long ago, that when I set out to give the whole of Croatia to concessions, the whole mainland part, that the whole opposition, that absolutely the whole public rose, that it was a knife in the heart of Croatia. I was talking about people at the time, people who were in opposition, so maybe it's the interest of some merchants. Well, don't do that, so we need to have domestic production, so we need to give concessions. But no, I was an anti-Croatian element at the time, and the opposition talking about domestic production today said that I wanted to pollute every decision or attack or by stopping that project in the last year and a half days de facto using traders. Somebody explain to me that it's different? Why don't we have bigger domestic production? We didn't share the concessions? There's no one to invest. If INA won't, we can't make her, so let's give it to the others. There's a line there. But we all talked in the assembly then, not everyone, then the opposition don't do it, don't work on domestic production, stop domestic production, give traders an argument. Let's keep to our word, to respect once we tell you that we don't change in two years. Or to confess and say I was wrong. Well, I didn't make the perfect decision every time either. And it's no problem to admit I was wrong. Let's look at the picture of the European market, who regulates and who doesn't regulate. Blue and green regulate. Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia, Poland, Estonia, Lithuania, France, Spain, Portugal, Denmark. They all have regulated prices. So Denmark, France, Spain if we don't look at Southeast Europe. They regulate both industries and households. We haven't regulated the industry in eight years, and we have nothing to do with Petrokemia. Well, they're scrutinizing some contests, there's a couple of bidders. We can only affect the costs of the transport system and other things. Another fear. So it's true what it looks like in Europe. Half of Europe regulates half of it. Let's not tell ourselves that we have to do something today or what we want to do. So I'm saying, this content of the law isn't so bad at all, it's just a question of what it's going to be like tomorrow. The warehouse, that's what I'm afraid of in law enforcement, and that's why I'm gonna end up. We are reducing to 60%, and this winter has shown that 70% of our small warehouse for Croatia is borderline enough, that if winter is the way this one was enough to ensure the supply of households. And the warehouse is now in exhale. And if we cut 60%, I think we're going into some kind of risk, but about that, by that. The risk is taken by those who make decisions. What can we expect? That's another question. The law provides for the possibility that colleague Maras is afraid that our production is going to Italy. It is done with three decisions by the Government of Regulators and Plinar that it cannot possibly go away, that it will not be in anyone's interest, regardless of what the law says when you simply set rules and tariffs in which way and how much the one who enters the system pays, how much the one who goes into the system will never be worth it to anyone that anything they produce in Croatia is exported to Italy. Because if he's on the exit tariff, you charge 15% for exporting. That means this law gives some frame. So let us not by law forbid but by our work and actions after and visions which will be expressed what is meant to be done with this law says that it will not happen. Well, no problem, Plinacro changes his tariff system and nobody gets paid. But someone has to tell me that's what's gonna happen. It's not a problem what the law says. The problem is, do we know what we'll hear from the minister later? I don't see him on shows, not today. I don't even know what to think, what to apply. And that's why it's not a problem that it says in the law, it's not a problem. But it's a bigger problem for me that I don't know what to do with that law, that I don't see those clear answers. We don't even have to look at the glass ball, he says we'd know what's going to happen on the market. You can't make predictions in three years and guarantee that's the way it's gonna be. But there are markets in Germany, the Netherlands and Austria that have so far had forecasts of 80, 90% accuracy. I've been following them for years. We're here today at the most expensive price. There's going to be a pick-up. It should be told citizens that some predictions are that if there are no wars, of course some extreme problems, that next year prices are expected to fall, not big, not like the 8% drop, 10%, 12%, and so for the next three years. This means that if there is an increase now, and the citizens are sure to come next year, and we need to prepare our industry, we expect it. If German, Dutch and Austrian estimates happen, they are not good in both Croatian and Croatian industries. But we don't have to look and pretend that I have to look at a glass ball. There are numbers. That's all the same minister needs to come and meet us and tell people today we're going to some extreme. We're waiting downstairs tomorrow, try to understand what the market is doing, we'll be careful not to export the cheapest domestic gas. Get answers in which ways. I don't know anything about that. Do either of you know? We have statements that confuse him I think he's the minister himself. One time he'll pick it up, another time he doesn't know, third time he won't, that's my problem, people. That means predictions in the next few years. That this is... and it says half of Europe. Maybe we know better, so we'll go nicely to the Chinese to connect before Angela Merkel because we're more important and bigger. Today, what is happening in some European countries? Bulgaria does not have domestic production, we have a request from the articles in Bulgaria to collect gas 30%, parallel to the neighbouring country. Romania has domestic production almost all 90, 100% does not matter having Romanian gas in a Romanian home, regulated increasingly cheap. It is the same EU member, the same rules. It is today Europe one is collecting 30% do not have domestic production, the only one going into debt and extremes. I think we should be in between, so not so that the whole market is influential but that we have tools to use domestic production in that volume that we have to do better. And running people's entire energy policy isn't easy, it's very hard to see the whole picture, predict, fight Union rules, markets, lead through this kind of social policy, I don't mean pricey, but generally protect the endangered customers and the social category. It is terribly difficult and I understand it and understand the secretary and the minister and the parliamentary majority, but you must understand that you must take responsibility and clearly tell people what is expected and what is your intention. I really don't see it anywhere. And at no time because I don't see a clear vision we have that restraint on this bill. In which way some of the measures will be for the market, the market has jumped ok, what are the compensatory measures at which, household food, social category or industry. We're gonna do some compensatory measures or we're just gonna do the market, but we've got some home production hell, so let's take advantage of it. But I don't have those answers people. And finally, the HNS will vote with abstention that I'm glad, I'm running away from that restraint normally as a man, but only because I'm good at the text of the law. There are some anomalies around certain guarantees that are inappropriate, but it is an emergency procedure because they did not start on time. They were supposed to leave three months ago, so we had a nice time to get it right, like this Thursday, and we need to inform the public, on Thursday the government has to make a decision, not wait 1.4, but next Thursday, a decision on the price of 1.4 and how the wholesale market operator will function. So in five days, we're in that decision, and then all the interconnections and everything. And because we don't have a clear vision, we don't have decisions, we don't have presentations, we don't have a vision that's a medium-term strategy that's not easy to make, and that's your job, people, so you took responsibility. Clearly, it is terribly difficult, but it is business for the ruling and to inform the public about it and the Croatian industry and everything else. Because I doubt that the energy system that is complicated leads in a smart system and has enough knowledge in this sector, therefore the HNS club will vote with abstention, I repeat not because of the context of the law and not because of the danger of some liberalisation that took place eight years ago but because I doubt that what comes next will be good enough for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32066	Thank you very much. And your exposure caused a whole series of replicas. She is the first to be the respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32067	Dear colleague Vrdoljak. I listened carefully to your discussion, you're a man with great experience and as a minister of the economy, you've been in the energy sector, and you've gained even better insight into the whole problem. But I didn't think of anything else to discuss with you today, but from that I'm going to give up today, I'm interested in one other thing because you've given a lot of useful information, a state of the market, etc. Only when you're talking about stock exchanges, let's let the stock market go. Markets in rare good as gas are games for children but good. I'd like to ask you something else. Does it mean that you are abstention or your club, and the SDP is against it, does that mean that this disagreement exists that you are no longer in the coalition? Does this abstention mean a possible turn towards HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32068	Reply to the replica representative Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32069	The very fact that the question caused a great laugh in my environment is your best answer. So should I say something more? We've been talking about this for two years, I'm talking about gas now, people are going to pick up not a little bit, and then we expect some cheap stuff, and now there's a question going on that's what's causing my club's general happiness. I have no other answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32070	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32071	Thank you very much. Mr. Vrdolja, here you have said in your debate that there is no need by law to limit trade in Croatian gas outside Croatia, what you have supported by the fact that various obstacles can be made when exporting goods from Croatia or the exit of gas from Croatia, so they will not be paid off, the problem is what is not mentioned at all. So it was supposed to be communicated that way, and the government had to give its commitment and intent to the public for insight, and then maybe we wouldn't have this kind of debate. But since that guarantee is gone, I still insist that this is the only possible solution because I don't trust Vlad. So I don't believe it when nothing says it won't please the Hungarians or the INA-MOL and it won't please the merchants like you said. Because if one part of the gas is exported from Croatia, someone will have to make up for it, and those who trade will make up for it. It means the fact that this law is the most beneficial to INA MOL and traders. Since we have no guarantee that no one has announced it, that I do not trust the government of Most and HDZ, then I continue to insist on this amendment and ask you to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32072	Replication response, MP Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32073	Thank you very much. So we're going in circles. Yes, one more truth should be told, and that is that we were the ones who put that restriction into law and the Energy Act says that domestic production should first be offered on one domestic market, which is contrary to Union rules. Because we've been looking for a transitional period of three years until the market is ready, that's what we put inside. And immediately got a pilot, immediately Europe said, so is it possible that you did, in law, write a domestic market? And that's the word domestic market doesn't exist in Europe, we're all one single market, and we put it there. Because we've been looking for graces to prepare the market, to know what our strategies are, to know where we're going, what we're going to do with domestic production, how much it costs, what our social policy is, what our industrial policy is, to bring in the Industrial Strategy, etc. But the moment has come that we need to make other decisions, one step further. Okay. It's been a year and a half, but you have to take a step further. And only for that reason, but I agree. I am a representative of liberal democracy, and I represent these people in this House, and if I am a representative of a liberal democracy that is not at all the one that will say that the market needs to be done, not only will it define strategies that will focus on what is important and with these social policies, with these industrial policies, with these economic policies, allow key branches to develop, but not to ban the law. That's why we're restrained, not against, not because we trust them. Because if we believed them, we'd vote yes, only for that reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32074	Thank you. Ivica Misic, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32075	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Vrdoljak, you were Minister of Economy, here you mention that most countries regulated their gas prices. Okay. Half. But now I ask you why you didn't try to regulate prices for Croatian citizens while you were in power for four years. He says you're on the side of price liberalisation. Well, surely, we're all on the side of that, but what kind? That it wouldn't be the same as Telekom and similar companies that we sold, liberalized, and had more and more expensive. We've already mentioned that. The second thing, we are in Europe, we all know that, but we must look again at our interests regardless of European interests. If we had 65, 60%, then 80% of the gas used to be, then any honest businessman would see that it was 90 or 100%. It would be a strategy if it did not harm the normal Croatian state. And what harm will it do if you have a great interest in something? These questions are simple for citizens and for the state let's just watch what is the interest of Croatian citizens. And it's very simple. We let Europe go, let the world go. We have to work with them for our own interests, that's all. It's a store.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32076	Replica reply, Vice-President of Parliament Ivan Vrdoljak.petrov
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32077	Thank you very much. So that's why we started by knowing the political risk of the research and exploitation project, in our production that the traders didn't approve of either. But then the opposition said that we'd dirty, destroy, that I was dirty or anything else. And here it hasn't been a year, two days we're all in the Chamber of Production. Watch what you say, listen to yourself, remember. Same thing. You asked me why I didn't regulate the household price. Blue line, three years regulated. And each time it was for a shade smaller, not much of the market price at that moment. A shade less than the market price, and then the market jumped over the year, so we're next year again, so we're next year again. Well, fellow Panenic, last year, we did it again because we paid the market for a shade less, but that's a transitional period in one serious energy strategy. So that's what I was doing. Why didn't I? I did it. But the next step is to decide we want to have domestic production, people want to drill. The ruling must say yes or no. What does that mean in the next five years and if we do that, why are we doing it? Because of the social class? Industry? Security? For what? And if not, then we are aware that the market will make its own and we will pay for all the risks that the market brings. I am in favour of using our natural potentials, but for smart purposes, not to pay for deficits, but to run a serious economic and innovation policy. That means one and the other. Why didn't I? I did. It's falling into the water. It's immediately declassified. And the second answer is domestic production. Well, I'm the first man to go into it after years. Why do you care the last two years? I don't know, and I don't have an answer to whether they're going to go on or not, and I loved I'd hear it if we knew we were counting on our production. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32078	Thank you. Representative Josko Klisovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32079	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Mr. Vrdoljak, you said that there is no fear that Croatia will export gas to Italy and then buy more expensive gas for the Croatian market where the Croatian state should make a difference in price. I can agree with you there on condition that the government makes decisions like you said. But do we have any signals from the government that the government will make such decisions? Did a government official here today in this assembly convince you of anything that the government is considering in this direction. Because as you said yesterday, as the Minister of Economy who advocated gas production in Croatia, what better than that could be than the owner of your own gas criticising you from HDZ while today these same people say we are for Croatian production. How credible. Can you trust such people only on the word that they will virtually continue to implement this law in the interest of Croatian citizens, Croatian production, and not only in the interest of trade lobbys and margins that someone else takes on the burden of taxpayers in Croatia. You said one more thing: vision, lack of vision. And my question to you is even though the answer is self-evident. Can energy policy be conducted without vision, and where will energy policy without vision lead us? And where the energy policy will lead us without vision. Why didn't the government continue that vision of energy policy that had our previous government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32080	Replica reply, Vice President of the Parliament Mr. Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32081	Thank you very much, President. I didn't say I wasn't afraid, I said I was afraid but I didn't see any reason to ban it by law. But in this assembly, I wanted to draw attention to the government and the rulings, that the greater focus must be on the decisions that follow, rather than the content of the law. The content of the law opens that option. And if we have smart decisions in the next steps, it won't come to that. It's all in our hands again, so I didn't say I wasn't afraid, but it shouldn't be banned by law. Now, of course the public is concerned now they want to pick up, when they're going to pick up, how much they're going to collect. Seven days before the decision, we have absolutely no answer. The minister is gone, you don't know, coalition agreements aren't and I'm not saying that right now to call someone, but... Tried. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So no problem telling the market has jumped, I'll do it in the first step, step two, I know what I'm doing, then we'll give them some compensatory measures in one way or another just present them, say the numbers. It doesn't matter if it's 30% or 15%. It's not. And what can be expected for a year given the futures that show up. Right? And what compensation measures will be and decision-making will take responsibility. Well, people, it's not that hard. Right? And the problem is that we're having an energy debate every quarter, every quarter of some change. MOST inside changed the minister for some reason. I don't know why. ... part of the continuity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, even if it's necessary, there's a new policy coming, and people in the election have won, and you can correct it. Just say what you're correcting and why? I don't know anything. Are we that bad? I don't know. Has something been taken advantage of? I don't know. Where's he going? We don't know. Let's get people to present where we're going in energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32082	Representative Tomislav Panenic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32083	Thank you very much. Thank you, President of the Parliament. A colleague of Vrdoljak, following the exhibition and colleagues of Lovrinović when it was yours. What bothers me most is that ordinary people who weren't connected to the energy sector aren't from your exposure to say they caught the essence you want to say, and you've given them a lot of laughs and you and your club. It's actually the way it communicates to the public, where it simply reads the terms. But the public didn't understand what you're saying, and from what you've spent during your term, we see numerous, if I can finish, we see a number of anomalies that you've caused. We are now talking about the gas market, the liberalisation we want to take. You're talking about you trying to stimulate research and exploitation. But if you followed up on a public debate, no one was against exploitation on land. They were all against exploitation at sea for the sake of tourism development. You didn't want to accept it, and then you went against the people's wishes and stopped the whole process for a certain time. Therefore, it is necessary to communicate with the people, and the people primarily want to have the price of energy that is acceptable, that they do not have to follow prices, to raise energy prices as we have for electricity for the mistakes made during your term. Because I personally understand if someone says it's the wind power plant's work, the energy prices must be raised. Yeah, who's to blame? The one who let it all in together. Who let it into the interest groups? Therefore, I'm for liberalisation, liberalisation and electricity and gas. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32084	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Vice-President of the Parliament is representative of Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32085	So nothing caused by a respected parliamentary representative of the former MOST minister who apparently would have left him behind because MOST got the same quota. He says one sentence: "You have stopped the project of research and exploitation for a while." So how could I stop it from the opposition? So let the people watch what you say. Well, I was telling you I'd back you up if you kept doing that. And you've been in power for a year and a half and I'll back you up if you keep doing that. But you didn't do anything. Well, you're not ashamed to say here that I stopped it. I'm not human! So let's be honest. We cannot lie to people, so they see us as citizens, so what is it with you? So we have to guard this assembly. So how? Which tools could I have stopped from the opposition? And then can you trust a man who, without any shame, I here constructively speak up and says he's lying. He says a very good proverb: “Successful people deal with ideas and their results, failed and ignorant to other people.” Leave me alone more! You've been ruling for a year and a half, bring your answer, take responsibility. We'll be smart to back you up. You deal with yourself and your results, and maybe you'll do something about it. But with the lies? That's the most people talk about you. I'll repeat, successful people deal with their ideas, their results, failures and ignorances deal with other people.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32086	Representative Darko Horvat is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32087	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here comes colleague Vrdoljak. You're on your way. The debate was okay. constructive, backed by numbers then there were two issues from your coalition club that obviously kicked you out a little bit. One was set up by a colleague, Maras, another colleague, Klisovic, but at one point I got the impression that at this point SDP is that junior partner of the HNS but you'll be handling it myself I guess. But the two things you said at the pay phone, which kind of fell into my eye, and I don't think I'm going to say maybe, you're wrong, so you said if INA doesn't, we can't make them. Now we could go back a little bit in history, which prejudged this sentence, which is ultimately correct. Yeah, we can't force INA today, but we had these levers, and we had this regulatory opportunity at the time that we had an impact on management and we had a commitment through state policy to INA to do something. Today, INA is part of a private and privatised company. Force and lure private entrepreneurs to come and invest in the Republic of Croatia, and then take all their tools to earn and fertilize that capital. Well, I wouldn't want to do that to any entrepreneur I'd like to step into the region and go out of the Croatian market or business space into the countries of our environment. So your second questionnaire was who regulated it, so you made it clear who regulated it. /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32088	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32089	So I'm starting to correct right now. My colleague Klisovic never got me out of touch, some SDPs were special when we were in position, I must admit, but my colleague Klisovic never did. We're good friends and associates, so don't do that at all. It's even grown into some political partnership into a decent friendship, so to speak. Second INA, let go of the past that we won't all be bad and I don't think we should talk about it again, we'll talk about others, we won't talk about our ideas, then I'll feel incompetent and ignorant, and I'm talking about others and not my ideas, and that's why... But experience tells us one thing, one contest we did, it was prepared for another. Six fields of INA reporting for one, on one, maybe on the other I don't know right now, the other fields INA didn't want. She made her business decision in the management frameworks that she made from that year with some people sitting there, however, let it go. But there were companies waiting for those fields that didn't INA and the experience has said and they work there, they're paying concessions now. Maybe we need a little bit of correction to be bigger, not until the exploitation phase shouldn't be increased, but after the phase, if there was an explosion, and the experience said that it existed under the fields that were offered to entrepreneurs, that the INA reported to one, two I don't know now I forgot exactly, but for the other fields the Canadians came forward and the people got that job, a new investor came. I don't see what the problem is, I don't think we should even insist... and we've obviously made some model that someone from Canada saw Croatia and decided to come. If we made a model that someone from Canada came into this business in Slavonia and we prepared that tender and we finished it and the HDZ government signed those contracts. Why hasn't she continued in the last year? [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32090	Thank you. Representative Tulio Demetlika is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is colleague Vrdoljak you as former minister and I agree that we are and belong to this liberal option and we are thinking liberally and we fully support this liberalisation because I believe that just one liberal market can and free market can offer even lower prices, but in this case I think it will be much more because this policy that has led so far has been keeping these low prices. And I think it's precisely the responsibility of the rulings to openly tell citizens that the price will rise and that's their responsibility. But I also understand and accept the wish of the competent ministry to pass this law by emergency procedure because it is simply in compliance with EU directives and that is fine. However, in such an urgent way, without conducting certain analyses and considering the consequences and leaving it to the government to make certain decisions, I agree with you that this law will simply not solve these problems that we are talking about here today. You mentioned that we don't have a single energy strategy of our country first. We don't know how much they're going to collect today, but we're putting into a situation of our own, our economy, but what Mr. Sagar said, in an unfavourable situation and our distributors as well as suppliers. Because we know when the gas sources on the northern Adriatic were involved in 2005 and 2006, and we have to say that the INA until then was selling that gas to the Italians and that the gas sectors are... the gas has said that we should use the maximum of that gas, and today we hear from here government representatives that those investments that Plinacro led through the main pipelines are not needed because Dalmatia has no gas needs /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32092	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32093	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Demetlik, and you're an energist, an electrician, however a graduate engineer might be, so we talked a lot about it. And yes, and that's why several times I've repeated the government really needs to tell you honestly what's going to happen. The market has jumped. Okay. You haven't worked now, you may not have predicted or I don't know anything but you'll predict the next step and just say that people know what they can expect. A great crowd is expected. Well, good will not ruin the world. So I'll remind you at the beginning of our mandate we've collected the electricity 24%. I, in my three-year term, spent 10% because it was possible at the time. Gas jumped at the beginning, we took it down three times. After a few years he was lower than at the beginning of his term. So it's nothing the end of the world, you just have to show it because it's the worst thing for the state if you don't see what's the direction. If the leadership, the ministers don't say clearly and show that they know what they're doing. That's the worst. And even if sometimes it goes a little wrong, make it right. It's not a problem. So tell me how much it's going to be, give people a chance to expect it and watch what their colleague said. Distributors must not be crushed. This is HERA's responsibility, the ministry is responsible. They must have serious tariffs, they must not be crushed. It's not the place to save and it can't be. And one quick answer about the Energy Strategy. Since I was an energy expert in my past life before politics, it was a great desire for me to go into the Energy Strategy at the time of my term of office. All my recommendations, and even from fellow ministers from the Council of Ministers of Europe, were to wait for the new guidelines that came in the 15th year and that we were doing a new Energy Strategy on the basis of them, because the 2009 strategy was outdated. My colleagues are on their way. We had some kind of conference. Some of the guidelines are already in writing. I sincerely hope that every one of us who participate in the political life of Croatia will contribute to the development of the Energy Strategy that should be adopted soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32094	Thank you. Representative Zeljko Lenart responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32095	Thank you, Your Honor. Since we are a country of absurdity, even in this law which is obviously not well prepared and simulated, some illogical and some problems will happen again. What you've noticed and I'm concerned about is the capacity of the warehouse with 60% which I think is one of the biggest problems for Petrochemy since I'm from Kutina and we're following the story of Petrochemy. What happens if a strong winter happens again in Europe, and the gas pipes are as thick as they are, and the warehouses are filled 60%, and then we'll get into trouble to stop our industry again, especially Petrochemy, who has to go to forced repairs because there's no gas because they're the priority of the household. Then what will happen, and who will answer? And then we have a problem, here's the restructuring of Petrochemy that becomes a loser, becoming a loser because of some contract that was wrongly concluded for Petrochemy, because Petrochemy uses gas as a raw material, not as energy. Petrochemy is also an engine that consumes gas and summers when households do not spend gas, which is very important for continuous supply and for price guessing, especially when large quantities of gas are negotiated. Is that filling that goes down to 60% will cause that and I ask you who will then answer what Petrochemy and other industrial complexes will become losers precisely because of such problems. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32096	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32097	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as Petrochemy is concerned, Petrochemy costs a gas circus the same as all the households in Croatia in a year, somewhere there are al pairs, 600 million cubics I think Petrochemy, 600 I say budgetary. 600 million kunas of all households all year round in Croatia. So that's to drop Petrochemy, the entire gas system has lost its meaning. Gasacro, tariffs. So we have to keep an eye on that company, how we're gonna capitalize on it, how the cash... There's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's cheap. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Something's done. 700 people are out there. Part of the restructuring was made. We should go to another part of the restructuring. I don't think there's a single government that's going to jeopardize that. And don't be afraid that in the event of a crisis or a great winter like this year's, this 70% will be reduced to 60%, that it will endanger Petrochemy's business, it won't. In 2014, we adopted in accordance with Directive 994 I think that the security and government are always and the minister has the right in the event of any extremes that threaten the security of supply to have intervention measures and take all warehouses, all production in the hands of the minister. It's got to be explained. No, it doesn't exist. That's what we just introduced in 2014. It's never been before. But it doesn't matter, it exists today. So we have tools like the state to take some extremes from the INA plant and we decide where it goes, which it supplies. Not their contracts to some industry. We don't say in Petrokemia, we tell the citizens, but it has to be an extreme situation. So that's not the question. That's the kind of situation that costs, and that's when INA's compensation is paid. So we secure the supply, but it costs money. And that's why I'm afraid it's not wise to cut to 70, to 60. And people decided with it and took responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32098	Thank you. Representative Ivan Pernar reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32099	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Vrdoljak asked who would, let's say in some way compensate for the damage. I like that Mr. Vrdoljak is actually talking about the concept of responsibility. But it should also be asked who will make up for the damage caused by the installation of these divisors, who have been told falsely that the European Union is asking us to do so, and the European Union has never asked us to do so. Unfortunately, unlike the energy certificates for tourism facilities, for which Anka Mrak Taritash also claimed the European Union was looking for, people were throwing money at the fact that the first one after her shift would be abolished by those energy certificates, i.e. freeing people from paying that unnecessary burden. Divisions still have to be built in today. So I invite Mr. Vrdoljak to apologize to the Croatian public for these divisors of which...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32100	I would ask Commissioner Pernar, since today we are talking about amendments to the law on the gas market, here if the representative Vrdoljak will respond, but today we are not talking about the divisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32101	Not today, but this is a unique opportunity for me to invite him to tell the public on the one hand, and on the other hand to invite colleagues from the parliamentary majority of HDZ and MOST to lift the provision of the necessity of installing divisors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32102	Thank you. Representative Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32103	So colleague Pernar, you should take every opportunity to agree to that. I liked some study from the Croatian Fire Institute. I don't know whether it's true or not anymore, that all those who have installed the divisor on some pilot project of 120 buildings in Croatia, that savings are already over 30% in electricity. Yeah, but I don't know any further than that. You need to see the score. There is no decision that is perfect in the future. There are decisions made in accordance with the environment and the moment you do it. The only market in Croatia that is not liberalised is thermal energy. You know why? Because through thermal energy, we run social policy. In order to be liberal, to be liberal, to pay as much as the cost must be 30 percent. And we've been looking for so much cost of production because old blocks are productive, we're losing in infrastructure, we're leaking to all sides, we're old buildings, etc. In order not to do so to Croatian citizens, so today we are ruling, or yesterday we were looking for some grace period because the entire system of the thermal system will have to be arranged. That takes six, eight years. But some steps in that process need to be taken. And then you start with the cheapest. It was my decision back then, with the cheapest. So cheapest that we could have some process. Now I beg you both to rule and make you men better. Well, I've been asking everyone for a year and a half. Look, if the decision four years ago wasn't good enough, so no problem, show the studies that showed it and suggest a new proposal. And I talk and I don't have a problem saying look real. Well, under the circumstances, there's got to be a decision to make and that's the assessment. Let's adjust after half a year, a year. So what's the problem? So did you make it one time in your life? You're not. Well, that's how the state works. Just be better, give me the numbers, explain it to us I've never seen that before, so I don't know who's more right. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32104	Thank you, counsel Vrdoljak. An MP, Ante Cikotic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection, also spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32105	Dear President, thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very I wanted to wait for you all to read, but I couldn't take it anymore. I want to demystify this populist topic that has started now in this esteemed institution. And I want to make it clear to both the parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public what's going on here. So no, if we don't do anything today and we don't pass a new law, they're going to do 1.4 full liberalisation on the Croatian market because we're already in the European Commission pilot. We, by this law, deregulatory and we want to prevent it from happening. So what's going to happen is black scripts. We are preventing this law and we are not going into liberalisation completely, but we are avoiding full liberalisation because the new gas market model provides for regulation of gas prices for household customers, and the industry has been liberalised for a long time. And thank God it's liberalized because it's proven that one industry delivers cheaper and better gas prices. As for the vision, we live in a dynamic time. The truth is that international markets predict rising gas prices in the future, so there will be another oscillation. We can't predict that for a long-term period. But what we can do, we can have and use the tools that are in our hands. We, as Government in the next period, have set ourselves up for the 10 tools that we have at our disposal. Unfortunately, our hands are tied to some tools since it's 2009. Gas master agreement I think is... says that by 2024 we can't affect the INA's ore rent, and the mine is at Europe level 9%. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] It's 10% in Croatia. It would have been so much better if in 2003 when INA was being sold, that's when it rose. It's during the SDP's term of office. But I'd like to go back to these 10 tools that we as Government will take to improve the gas market and make it a safer supply and a more affordable price. The first is the return of INA to the property of the Republic of Croatia. It's a process ahead of us. We've made a political decision and we're going that way. Once we return INA to our property, we will no longer be burdened with where the gas ends, but we will be able to manage these processes on our own. What I still want to highlight is the return of INA to Croatian property, we will be able to go with partners and other companies to joint venture projects where we will share the risk on these projects and we will be able to go to new research, exploitation of oil and gas both in Croatia and abroad and that will ensure and generate stability and price and supply. So the first step is the INA and the return to Croatian property. The second step we have already launched these processes to reduce transport rent together with Plinar and HERA, we also want to look at the tools for detimulating output tariffs. That is also the answer to those who have been referring to that part today. So it's all on the table, we're talking about everything. And that means the nets that are one of the biggest in Europe, and the biggest ones are in Europe because we had bad energy policies. We had the energy loops that we funded. That's why our gas transport tariff is high, and we have to change that in the future. The third tool in the hands of this government that will certainly make which is one of the most important for the future, some are long-term, would say of this if it were a medium-term it was a LNG terminal. LNG terminal on the island of Krk is a new supply route. Those gas molecules now located in the Republic of Croatia are from our fields and most of the Russian Federation. Other gas molecules from around the world will be available on the island of Krk. To me as a citizen of Croatia, the most important price and availability of gas, it is less important whether it will be from Croatia, the Russian molecule, whether it will be from Qatar Australia. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32106	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32107	So we have ten tools, so for now we've listed four of them, so we'll continue...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32108	Thank you. The replica was first reported by representative Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32109	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to ask the proposing representative, why did Croatia even sell it to the INA if it was a strategic company to buy it again at a more expensive price? If I'm not mistaken at the time of the SDP, shares for 900 kuna or 1200 I don't remember exactly, HDZ was selling for something more. My guess is, now we're gonna pay if we're ever going to go to any more ransom than we got for it. And I think, in fact, the only loser in the whole story is the Croatian people, and the winner of the politicians who put the money in their pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32110	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32111	Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Cikotic, you have now said one thing that has been a lot of words in Croatia, which is buying INA. Since you are a member of this commission, you may be able to share some dynamics even if we know when it will happen. You said the first is the Croatian desire to buy INA and take it back with probably you and the Government by selling shares of HEP that we are explicitly opposed here, and most Croatian citizens are opposed to it. So we're interested in since you're talking first is, when's that first? Whether it's in three months, in half a year, in a year, two because it's so undefined to talk about something that I don't think is going to happen, it won't happen because you don't even know if the Hungarians want to sell it to the INA, and on the other hand, we don't have any money to buy it, either because HEP if we have to, and we're going to prevent a referendum from selling one of the most valuable companies in the future. That's why I'd like you to speak a little more specifically, not to follow the example of some agents who talk about the winds, and besides what they feel when the flakes of the storm don't know too much about it. So here I would ask you to tell us a little more specifically about when it's first. First we buy INA, when, this year, in a year, in two. You're also a member of the committee, if you've had any meetings you might be able to share. You don't have to go into business details how much it's gonna cost, we'll ask you that later, but when it's gonna happen, you can say that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32112	Replica reply State Secretary Ante Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32113	We entered this process and it will happen as soon as possible because we are interested in happening as soon as possible and that after that process we have a quality relationship with our neighbours and that we take over the INA back to Croatian hands as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32114	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32115	Your colleague Chikotić, as secretary of energy, is really not easy at this time because of the legacy of the gas management INA itself because if INA had not been privatized through white nights that produce more oil than expensive MOL and INA together, then many ministers who now make numerous demands were silent, so I would ask you one question. What is the impact of the decision that has not been taken, and was the chairman of the SDP Supervisory Board of Supervisors of the INA Supervisory Board, Sinisa Petrovic, who did not press charges against the Trade Court over the INA, was there any damage to Croatia, and could there have been something the Government of the Republic of Croatia did in that time and what the conventions now fell out of it? And indeed INA is in trouble because it is hostilely taken and we have to return it in the best way and indeed your role is difficult and you really have the support to get INA back into Croatian hands. And as for the wind power plant... can you wind energy, I see that the public is alarmed that the former government, their decisions on wind incentives, the wind power plant Croatian state must or citizens pay this year a billion and 100 million kuna, 2018 billion and a half kuna, and in 2019 billion and 600 kuna, means somewhere around 4 billion kuna. And can you explain what these decisions are and what are your solutions so citizens don't pay for more expensive electricity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32116	Replica reply State Secretary Ante Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32117	Thank you very much. I'm not such a skilled politician as Mr. Maras and you, Mr. Bull, but I can tell you on the technical side that we inherited a whole series of problems in the energy sector, that we have a vision of what we want, we know how to do it, and for every problem we have a solution, we are not afraid of opening any topic. As far as specific questions of wind are concerned, we must demystify that. So it's past the time of subsidized electricity prices, and once and for all, we're going to stop because market conditions have been created and the price of renewable technology is no longer so much that they need to be encouraged, unfortunately, we have assumed contractual obligations that are huge by 2020, 6.2 billion kuna, and we need to find a way to resuscitate it. We want and regret that the benefits of the renewable energy benefites did not respect the broad masses but only individuals benefited from it and further, so the legal procedure will be referred to the laws that go towards detimulating the price of electricity from renewable energy because we want to save the system of renewable sources, and we are for renewable sources but we are not in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32118	On behalf of the club MOST Independent Lists will take the word Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32119	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, esteemed secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we have come to another law in which we need to decide where we belong, whether we belong to countries that represent development, competitiveness, the most favourable price, or whether we are going towards a monopoly and protecting something that we have already learned in the past time, that I am actually going to say the least harm to us. I would mention this in the liberalisation of electricity that started in 2013. And what happened, we function, we work, we make decisions as a state, we correct within our capabilities everything possible to ensure people and competitiveness, that we also have competition when we need competition, and we also have state mechanisms when we, they are necessary to correct perhaps today's current or some short-term anomalies that are emerging. If we just look at how Croatian electricity used to work, we first touched it from the budget so what did we have there? We had a chaotic state of mind, it was wasted, it didn't take care of the rationality of the business of the entire system, it didn't invest in economics, it didn't invest in the improvement of the facility, then we took off those subsidies, and it got too much on our citizens, we saw it don't work like that. You just have to bring in the competition to get someone in line. I think we just got to the gas to get him in line. I'd just like to remind you that if we hadn't gone to an open market, we'd probably be driving in the south today, waiting for our young for a year if I could take a driving test of what wasn't competition, I'd have experienced it, I was the last generation I'd been waiting for. And I wouldn't have come back at that time. I wouldn't go back to my parents' time when a thousand marks were due for a phone connection. We don't want that time, we want competition on this market. And we see this competition, it's fighting each other. We even have a chance to see that the prices they offer are below the production prices. So they balance sometimes in the market but they have to fight, no one wants to lose their share. Is that good, of course not if it happens in a long time because then something in the system happens somewhere. The previous government of Milanovic and my colleague, Vrdoljak, postponed liberalisation for an additional 3 years. And we wonder, and then there was an interpretation as if we weren't ready, that our suppliers, distributors couldn't function in that. And why can't I? Because we have too many, we simply have so many local, small suppliers that are overcrowded and by the number of people who are locally employed by them, they don't even have the financial ability to maintain a network that expires on her, you lay her down today, 10 years from now, there's investment maintenance everywhere, in 20 years you have to change something, they don't have the power to deal with that competition, they're themselves burdened with their problems. And then how will they work? And this is the law that gives them space, still opens up space for local powers, leaders to think about that by connecting domestics, local companies can once again create one subject that will be ours, which will not be foreign to us, who will be able to compete through our market, to acquire larger quantities of gas, but must understand through this way where everyone will just fight for themselves will not simply succeed. And then there's this paradox that we have, our oil company INA, that's not just oil, it's also gas. I wonder, if this company was managed profitablely, why also this oil company wasn't involved except for the production of gas and imports of gas from other markets, the sale of that gas, the trading of the so-called so-called so-called, then we see today, powerful gas companies because then we would be leading it in our interest. However, so it wasn't in that interest, then it occurs to us, here, I have the information, it's relatively old from 2014, but I haven't been able to make it any more recently that MET MOL's company. So MOL, our strategic partner in INA, is again active on the Croatian market and through its daughter company, which is, however, based in Switzerland but still functioning and has 4.4%. So INA doesn't have to do it, but MOL can do it. INA had oil, and so did its little sale, but then MOL went into Tifon. You can't explain it to me, I just can't understand that someone who's a strategic partner of you is actually making you look better at it. But let's go back for the gas. If you may have promoted the statements here of the RV, it was actually one of the guidelines for why it should go towards liberalisation, says they have the power to offer today another low price of gas and to be the leader of liberalisation. I'd say it's a warning to all of us that we need to consolidate and say we don't want to fight that same battle and be leading. Because it needs to be understood that RW is currently obtaining 100 times the amount of gas that Croatia spends. Therefore, only by consolidated all our forces and I would like Croatia to be here, as you said the secretary of state and to do business, to achieve income from that base, where we can then say that we have both a liberal and a Croatian market. We saw when my colleague Vrdoljak said that the ministries should take care of the perspectives, the announcements of the market development, the moment I took over the ministry first thing we saw was that the price of gas had just not been taken care of. The first measure I have ever taken, which the citizens have now felt has been aimed at reducing the price of gas 20%. So if either Minister Dobrovic or Secretary of State Chikotić is going now to complain you had no vision, then I wonder how you used to follow the gas prices, why you didn't intervene, why you let people go even if we say one winter that was, where, based on long-term forecasts and better quality interventions, you lower the price of gas because now we have lower energy prices. This winter when it was the most, here's the month that was extreme compared to the regular years we've provided favourable prices for heating for our citizens. But we need to understand our reality that because of such bad decisions, our gas market has fallen. To the former prime minister when he asked me what it was for, I say because people don't see the hope that it could come to a cheaper price for gas. They didn't see hope then. They bought motorcycles and went into cutting wood, moving to wood mass, to laying it instead of using gas as the energy that we have available and can be at a good price. There's been a lot of debate here before, and I've encouraged around the Energy Strategy. And I agree, and it has to be a document that we have to talk about, that needs to be pursued. But it can't be a document that becomes an ad hoc. It was not a decision for me either when I was a minister, nor is it now the decision of Minister Dobrović. It's the decision of all primarily professional people who deal with it. Because that's what professions need most. It needs to be monitored and it's not a dead document that you once bring in but alive and it needs to be adapted. And what I was most afraid of, and that's not to make a mistake, because we need to make a lot of decisions, talk to a lot of people, and the direction of our energy policy can't be if that people aren't willing. So there can be no hydrocarbon exploration in the Adriatic, oil exploration in the Adriatic. It can't be Plomin C as a thermal power plant they don't want in Istria. It can't be a gas power plant in Osijek. If the three studies show she's inert, she'll create the losses that we'll have to pay for and push again and re-replace the board president for it. This cannot be a policy of renewable energy sources such as wind power plants to pour money into certain pockets only. It can't be divisions where you don't understand what's bothering people. So we have to have a consensus, both peoples and experts, and then make a decision in this House. And I welcome all the efforts of liberalisation, I welcome all the initiatives that will strengthen our position, strengthen the position of Croatian companies on this market. If these companies are going to sell then the gas from Croatia, which is the intensity, and I would like it to be an INA that will be competitive and sell it here, compete. And that those who are on the market can also get from Russia whether through LNG or anything to offer a competitive price. Because don't forget, there's always someone who can offer cheaper. Well we've seen around LNG we're wondering how it's going to work the price of LNG gas is more expensive than Russian. It is today if we're watching. If someone looks at which is outlook, which is the future development of LNG it will become one of the most competitive markets where the battle will be great. It will be the battle of Australia, America, Qatar, Russia. Everyone will offer gas and we created new competition, new value, we create a new industry, we create our means of transport, all our ships that will go to the current side of the gas. It won't be necessary for us to infuse that liquid gas into our system, but rather, if the right prices are right and what we see is already going in that direction, we will be able to use and increase competitiveness. Because as long as we don't have new supply routes, until LNG is gone, until we talk about the link through the Adriatic-Ionian pipeline, we won't have any real competitiveness. And that is why we are now encouraging this law on the market to develop this and of course we need to develop the circumstances that our companies that are going to participate in this market are going to develop this. And of course we also need to develop circumstances, that our companies that will participate in that market have the opportunity to obtain gas and provide the most favourable conditions for citizens. And everything else is just personal interests and failures that we've seen enough and better if we have to wait a year. But when we make a decision, she'll be the one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32120	Thank you, Agent Panenic. Representative Gordan Maras responded first to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32121	Thank you very much, Mr. Panenic. You've just mentioned the MOL's role in the whole INA story and everything that's been going on for the past 10 years, and I absolutely agree with you. Not 10, but 14 years now. And I absolutely agree with you, but I don't know if you're aware that this way by amending this law in terms of liberalisation, we're de facto helping MOL, and the moment we buy INA, we're raising the value of the INA price because we're going to give them additional revenues through the possibility of selling gas in Italy. So you should have thought about how to help not the INA and MOL, but the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why it's a little paradoxical to say that MOL played a negative role in selling a certain part of the gas in Croatia, and in this way you allow it to sell our gas in Italy. So on this side it is a bit inconsistencies and hopefully there is a possibility until the end of this debate that even if you accept that part of the amendment that only Croatian gas can be sold on Croatian territory and on Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32122	Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32123	Of course, around the role of MOL, I think we've elaborated a lot here, and it's just a turning point to stop it, take over the company, and then we'll be able to develop gas business. But consider what they wanted to get us? They wanted us to get that gas we're producing by the so-called. The Russian formula that would bring us a billion damage. And when we look at that gas right now on the one hand can be profitable to create companies that have millions of values today and on the other hand, they would create losses for us. I wonder who's who can put that in front of you and make a decision MOL's right. I mean, as a state, I'd like that decision to be made by any other company in any other state, so we'd see how they'd react. And that is why our right if we can't go through the instances that we thought could make a decision by what's logical and understandable then take over that MOL's stake in INA and then prevent further degradation of our distribution system, strengthen research and exploitation, help our company CROSCO develop and then create one sovereignty and create conditions that we can be a player on this market. If we will then decide how competitive our company will be, that is a question that needs to be opened and that is a question that when we transfer that kindergarten to someone's management it can no longer be as it used to be, it must now be based on market principles within the liberalised market, you must take all measures to save the company, be strategically connected and be a real player and provide the most favourable service to our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32124	Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32125	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenic. When the government formed then I was actually skeptical and I felt it was wrong to put energy in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. After seeing in fact that energy is independent of the ministry, there is no real estate that energy does not affect. It was about the economy, and you encouraged me to remember agriculture. We are talking about Virovitica-Podravska County is 90% tobacco production in the Republic of Croatia, there is a show called "Seconds to disaster" there we see a disaster not only due to one adverse situation, but because of a series of adverse circumstances. So also in tobacco production, except for the low price of tobacco incentives, and the government tried to encourage sensitive sectors to help them, the EU did not allow it, and then people came into the situation because of the increase in gas prices to switch to biomass. Then what happened? Since this is left to the verse, some wise men have appeared, so they have sold these boilers to people on solid fuels and what happens, since it is not technology at all suitable for such a species in the dryer of this type of drying technology, the spark ends up in tobacco and burns down droughts. For the O.P.G., it's a damage of 30 thousand kuna. So when we talk about energy, it has an impact on everything, in fact, on very much economic activity, here is agriculture, so in this direction we should think about in the future and respect the strategies that we have adopted. There are a number of strategies, and they have to outrun the ministries for strategies not to end up in the ministry drawers, but to really apply them. And in that sense, I think this law can also help transparency, but again, if we go back to the beginning of the story, if we consider small gas suppliers that will also be brought into their survival.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32126	Thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32127	Comrade Sagar, you mentioned industry, industry is most interested in stability, security, so they know they can rely on choices, primarily energy. Is under low energy prices, the industry is developing and we see and this industrial growth has just come to us with a low energy price and those with regard to gas act liberalised on the market, but I agree there is still room. There is still room to increase the competitiveness of the market even more favourable prices created for our industrial needs and then there will be no need to, as you set an example of people, move from one source of energy to another source than to know that it will be done as much as possible on both sides and government, and also by strengthening the competitiveness of the market to make the price acceptable to them. Is it in everyone's interest and whoever produces gas and whoever delivers it and whoever spends it to go, doesn't stop, do we have the collapse of our market? And now the right answer to the questions that have been asked here today is what you're doing. We're actually just trying to stabilize a situation that was unbearable. Is it unbearable that energy prices rise, it is unbearable to listen and to become a topic, our industry and investors who want to invest in Croatia they want to have a stable one here. And I hope that the adoption of laws like this will create security and long-term long-term that will stop being the topic of an affair that unfortunately we have to listen to all this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32128	Thank you. Representative Tulio Demetlika is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32129	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Panenic, with your presentation at the very beginning, I fully agree and I support and feel that the policy you are conducting and you personally, but MOST too, is to correct certain things in society, in the second part I think that you have returned to that, I will say the populist policy that you are also leading. In the first part, you said you needed to liberalize, to defend the interests of the state, that INA was strategic for the Republic of Croatia, but you also said your experience on the outside, how to liberalize, not to drive in the south, but to ride in some Opel or Mercedes. But in the end, and that's your colleague from MOST, Mr. Bulj says, we don't want hydropower plants, we don't want thermal power plants, we don't want renewable energy sources because we have to pay more expensive electricity, we don't want nuclear power plants, but we're going to need Hungarians across the street or in Vojvodina. We just don't want it because the people said they didn't want it. But where is now the responsibility of everyone here in Parliament, both left and right and you in MOST, is our citizens going to include that plug in some noise, so they're going to have electric energy or how we're going to create it means that what we want our entire country to have here primarily is stability for the citizens and for the industry, but we're also as an energy independent state. With the policy we're leading, it seems, by switching and returning to history, we can't possibly come up with a solution. We've lost our chances when we've also heard that we don't want a highway through Slavonia so the Hungarians have it across the street, we've been talking about LNG for 15 years and we're also talking about the Master's Ionian gas pipeline. Thank you very much. [[Adversity President: Demetlika is running out of time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32130	Thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32131	Thank you, colleague Demetlika. I am a populist, I am, I listen to people, I talk to people and I transfer here what people want to see that change happen. Unfortunately, I'm not successful enough, I'm not a real populist because I'd probably be a real populist and push through a lot of things, but there's no understanding that we can get through everything that people feel is injustice and want to make it right. And you yourself have listed, in fact, that sometimes we observe some events and we think maybe it looks good to us, you've listed energy projects in the environment, a nuke is happening in Hungary. So then we have in... So there's a... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to ask ourselves if we want to, did you in Istria want Plomin C. No, I don't want... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If I had in Croatia because such a thermal power plant would create pollution for us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the Bosnian ship, that's the whole battle it's made over. But what is it? Let's not think that someone's coming to our house to invest without having a receipt. And the Russian side, if they're going to invest in a nuclear plant in Hungary, they must have a receipt. I'm only afraid of those calculations as in Plomino's analysis showed a negative financial result more expensive than it would be possible to get from another source and then we have to pay for it. We have an example with highways, Zagreb-Macelj, we subsidize that. We have the chance of an Istrian iplislon, Bina-Istra, we're subsidizing it. We'll have Franjo Tudjman at the airport, and we'll subsidize if he doesn't. I wouldn't do projects where we as a state continue to subsidize because then we take something, so we make something possible, but we take it from the other side. Therefore, we must be consistent and determine what projects we want, which ensure development in future times and not our costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32132	Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32133	Thank you very much. counterpart Panenic, one of the better moves is to bring the ministry, energy, into the ministry of energy and the environment. The reason is, you mentioned building a thermal power plant. Yes, of course they need renewable energy exports, but for example, a thermal power plant on Lake Peru, at the very source of the Cetina River, where 500 thousand people use water. And proven to be harmful, a 109-metre chimney, 700 kilos of exhaust gas per minute, water warms up 8 degrees. And 500 thousand people use that water as drinking water and in the season millions of people. So people come to the junk, investors who want... , who want the same as the wind power plants, is not a problem with renewable energy sources but is a problem, this is for a colleague from Istria, but the problem is, if the energy is on the market 25 limes and we subsidize 90 limes to a foreign investor, in our area, which our environment destroyed, to foreigners in our pocket. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this year we have to pay 1.1 billion of that, so no one hears, 1.1 billion. There's a problem. The key problem is that we, such as the water in the river Cetina, want to pollute with a thermal power plant where water is a resource strategic, is why wars are being fought. Water is more expensive than oil. There's a key problem for these foreign investors, but they won't do it on Perica. It's not because the first thing that's going to endanger the environment, it's going to destroy drinking water, springs and river Cetina and... And we hope that as soon as the Ministry... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32134	Thank you. Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32135	What will be the success of the new ministry, it will show primarily the people who work in it. I only know one thing, whoever wants to do a lot of work, about energy, there's too much work to do, and I'm sure after that they'll have less nerve, that they'll have less hair, that they'll have more grays. And I've experienced it myself, and I wouldn't discuss it at all. But it was called the ministry one way or another, either in this form or in that form, if it works, there will be results. But what's for sure about projects like this as on Perachi, to tell my colleague Pernar, he's not here right now, then you can see that, Yeah, you can tell from the plane that it's not going to work there. [[I'm here, I'm here...]] Is what? They go to the incentive price system, meaning the premium prices as cogeneration. So let's do a little camouflage, put it in a new shape, and then again from that poor Protheus that we're now struggling to touch again. I say, simply both the Ministry and the Secretary of State and you must once say no more. You can't sell us not to tell what, because they're trying, so one conventional power source, they're trying to turn the thermo power plant into a cogeneration, and then they're still getting a premium electricity price. So we can all be successful entrepreneurs, but it's a scam again. And we have to stop, be determined. Any attempt to deceive the Croatian people and the Croatian state is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32136	Representative Marko Vesligaj has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32137	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is counterpart Panenic, who was invited to report to this replica, mentioned in one, in your actual debate that decisions are not made ad hoc. Now I'm asking you why today in this law we've come back to the emergency situation. HERA had already given its opinions on the proposal for amendments that were actually sent back in December. You also have a letter of 26 January by a group of distributors and natural gas suppliers sent by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce also asking for information about this law because January 15th was the deadline for the purchase of natural gas storage facilities. And we've come back here today to pass this law by emergency procedure. Which is why if this law is so important why we're not transparent here, which is why we don't make timely decisions again. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32138	Reply to the replica, MP Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32139	Actually, here, I can say what we in the Parliament see as the end of that whole process. I would just say here and during my term that package of laws was working. Of course it's always made, sometimes it's very easy to make a decision because it's uniform. Here was also an attempt to seek the best solution, a number of talks that were made with all those involved in creating conditions for the decision to remain long-term, the fact that it had a head and tail behind it, and that was a challenge. So it's not the law in 90% I've known him since I worked, we've talked about it a lot. I transferred everything to the secretary of state about what it was, but the 5% or 10% that remained inconclusive was the ministry's decision and they think it's the best proposal. Of course, it's a bit of an emergency procedure right now to create a problem if it doesn't. I agree that we should get it before we should discuss it here. There is no doubt about it, but sometimes it is better to pass a quality law that has been preparing for longer time not to do harm, but to have decisions such as opening up, making public calls to 1.1. I mean, it's something that we have to prevent from being that kind of a decision, that we don't have a long, long line of time discussed, so to speak, but everything was transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32140	Thank you, Agent Panenic. The speech was requested by a proposing representative, State Secretary Ante Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32141	Thank you very much. I'll try to be as short and concise as possible. So I'd like to expose what we're actually doing and what our action plan is to curb the gas market. As I recently cited INA's return to Croatian property with a more quality financial framework that will not affect the devastion of Croatia and the energy and other sectors, the reduction of transport rents along with PLINACRO, HERA, the destimulation of the exit tariffs, LNG, means development, the strong development of the project, but I will look back on it later. The fourth measure is the IAP TAP new diversification supply direction. The minister is going to Azerbaijan next week to speed up the project and lobby at the highest level that it will happen as soon as possible and be the biggest financial envelope from the European Commission from the EU funds. The fifth tool is to increase energy efficiency for family houses, more residential buildings. So now they've gone out, they've come out to sign up for multiple residential buildings, and we're making extra efforts to start a family home energy reconstruction. The sixth is the adoption of a new energy strategy and new energy policies that energy will be in the service of the economy and citizens, and not the purpose itself, as it has been before, when various energy projects were built that had no physicality and market price of electricity and other energy sources were not cost-effective, but again there was some incentive. The seventh measure we were talking about was the storage capacity of the gas. The governments so far have not proved successful in creating a high-load warehouse in the Grubish Polje because it is obvious that the frames were unable to do so. We'll do it. We're active. Eight of what I can say, we are active modernists in HEP negotiations and gas manufacturers. The ninth, regarding hydrocarbons and new exploitation fields in Croatia. What we have done is we are going towards a new Law on Hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia which will significantly change the frameworks, protect the interests of the state, increase the rent for new research. We will implement the hydrocarbon research contracts that the previous government failed. 29 blocks, zero contracts. So 29 blocks of a new contract and we've already signed five research and exploitation contracts. In Slavonia now after the new law go Dinarida. And the tenth measure, the Republic of Croatia is the only real partner of BiH in gasification and we will help our neighbours in BiH in the gasification of BiH and their plants. In this way, we will ensure that the Republic of Croatia is not only the final point of the transport system but we will ensure that new amounts of gas that will pass through the Croatian transmission system will allow the gas system to benefit our operator as well. And finally what I want to highlight as one exclusive to all of you, just a few minutes ago I got a message from our colleagues in Brussels, two months ago we caught the reins of LNG and turned it upside down in a way that we gave up all the documentation that was for the land terminal because he's a crazy project if he's going first with him, so we're going to float. We have prepared project documentation to apply to the Euro Fund competition and I, through this way, congratulate the people who worked on it. A dozen of them worked day and night for two weeks, we applied to the CEF fund. It is a fund that is not part of those funds that we are paying as a membership fee but is an additional source of income and we have just received news that 1/3 of all the allocations today are at the CEF Fund meeting for the Republic of Croatia, which is 150m euros in grants. So we have the results and in two months we've turned and we know what we're doing. This law that we are making we want to master the gas market in an even better way, to make our citizens' security of supply and price the best possible, and these ten measures will guarantee it. We cannot know what will happen in the future with gas prices on the European and world markets. Production prices in Croatia fall on the Adriatic, and we would like to add that the backs of citizens do not break bad policies. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32142	Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32143	I congratulate my colleague Chikoc on this LNG terminal, which is 150m euros from the European grant funds, it is indeed big news. As far as the project is concerned, you said you would no longer support projects that are your own purpose, not in the interests of citizens, but individuals. So here's because I've talked to you on countless occasions about a thermal power plant that intends to build various interesting lobbys want to build on Peru to stop it as soon as possible, because this study is visible to harm not only the health of citizens but also drinking water, to sources, to the breaking of the whole, we should even think about the Break Protection Act because of the impact of this kind... to follow more and more, so we need to protect it. And as for Sinj, the Cetins end of the Croatians' municipalities sent a message to the team that intended it, you won't gang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32144	Replica reply State Secretary Ante Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32145	Mr. Bulju, we cannot access projects populistly, but we would also like to analyze in detail. We've done a detailed analysis and there's a public debate, there's a whole series of problems with that project. We can no longer co-finance and encourage, it's a diversifying project that's developing. It includes some sites that are not owned so HEP has the right to use Peruca and water that goes downriver to the hydropower plant and this project cannot be realised without HEP, so in a public debate that will end we will see other arguments. There have been comments from all sides and we will finally make a final decision, but for now we see difficulties in the realization of this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32146	Representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32147	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I followed your presentation on your work, and if we compare the energy management policy and the information you have just told us about the approval of 150m euros from the EU, all I can tell you is congratulations and I am grateful that energy is finally in safe and professional hands after many years because this project is one of the most significant projects not only at national but also at regional and European level. This is a project that will also be launched by the Croatian economy and industry, and this is what Croatia has been waiting for for for many years. Congratulations again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32148	Replica reply State Secretary Ante Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32149	This is the success of the entire government and the Most and HDZ not just individuals. It means that the project would be realised and we need quality inter-resorship cooperation between all ministries and transport and connections and construction and we are expected to face challenges in the future, and we need to be maximumly focused on making full use of these funds and moving towards new applications.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32150	Representative Marko Sladolev asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32151	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to express my satisfaction with this decision, and I also think that the decision is going in the right direction. But on the one hand, I would also like to express my grief and grief, given how much resistance you face in your work. It turns out that the EU and the European Commission recognises your work more than some stakeholders in Croatia. He would also compare this with the waste management plan, Minister Dobrović, as he is preparing a large amount of money from the EU for grants, and such resistance is experiencing here. So here's one side of grief and joy interferes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32152	We're moving on with the debate. Representative Branimir Bunjac has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32153	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We are here today hearing about different desires, wishes of lobbys, industry, parties, ministries, and perhaps the key question is what citizens want on this issue because, realistically, looking at citizens is the most interested in how much it costs to heat. For reasons of interest, this cost is their main overhead, and many of them have to spend as much as half their salary or more to cover the monthly cost of their heating, or gas. We are listening here today and we see from this legislative proposal that Croatia has not yet implemented the full liberalisation of the gas market. And there's really no reason for that. Because at this point we produce 67% of our own needs and some studies very seriously show that we could produce with a little effort and 80 and 90% while some experts say that even in Croatia there is gas for our needs for the next 250 years. For this reason, the real question is why would we, if we had enough gas and enough production in the first place, liberalise the market, on behalf of which. So we've got 57% already, 80% might have a little bit of effort, which is why we now have to please Azerbaijan, who hasn't mentioned everything here, Russia and other countries so that they can impose rules on us here and sell gas at some of their prices. Because these announcements we see these days clearly show that the state intends to raise gas prices. And that means such a blow to the standard of citizens that they probably won't be able to heat up on gas at all, but they'll either have to move on to some other kind of heating or simply won't be able to warm up at all. Why would it be important to keep control of the gas market or not allow liberalisation? Here, for example. Last year, gas prices fell by 18%. On the side now that these prices fell too low, because the prices of gas on the world market fell by 50% last year, i.e. 50% lower than in 2013. Did lower gas prices affect the growth of the BPD we had in 2016? Did lower gas prices affect the growth of activity in the economy? Did lower gas prices affect public consumption? They did. And so what we're doing now, we're going to be raising the price of gas this year, which is what this law is going to do, and then we can expect a reverse process. So the reverse process will be that there will be a reduction in economic activity, a reduction in public consumption and a decline in GDP growth. I would like to point out here that there are no reasons for the addition, and that is because it is possible to correct the injustice of the so-called so-called so-called. the price of gas that is calculated by kilowatt in our case. So all gas and gas extraction sites are measured in cubic meters and sold by a completely different measured unit, which is kilowatts. Such a gas price calculation allows for price manipulation of up to 20%. And it's all about the public fraud, the robbery. That's not what I'm saying personally, but that's what people who work in gas distributors who work in these companies say, they warn about it, and they're basically laughing at the promoter for letting something like that happen in the first place. At the same time as gas prices are rising unjustly and as we can see by unwarranted calculation, all gas companies are making high profits and profits. The management of gas companies has enormous salaries that rarely exceed the salaries and presidents of the state and prime ministers. And most importantly, they make constant investments in some kind of infrastructure, I don't know how to build a building in a rolling stock, and therefore the prices to the citizens are rising. And as far as we can see, they are not only working against the interests of citizens with not too much gas price, but all those gas distributors against citizens are carrying out the tasks and blockades that are measured in tens of thousands of cases, and moreover they are carrying out the measure of gas mining to citizens. Which is not illegal, I repeat illegal. No one has the right to rule out gas without a court ruling either under UN conventions or under EU directives. I repeat once again, without a court decision, a gas distributor cannot send a man a warning and a foundation and a warning to shut off the gas and yet I can't get him off the counter and the gas installations and take it with him. Well, that's what the citizens paid for with their own money, that's their property. And there's no right to exercise terror against the citizens, and all the time we see that it's being done all the time. According to the United Nations Convention on the Placement of Man or Family who are in a difficult financial situation, they cannot pay bills without water and electricity is cruel, inhumane and humiliating. According to the EU Directive, gas and electricity must not be excluded in times of crisis. According to the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, Article 216, which destroys, damages, changes, makes it unusable, removes or interferes with the work of public use for water, heat, gas, electricity or other energy, thus causing disturbances in the regular life of the population will be punished by a prison of six months to five years. And what are we doing? So we have too high gas prices, we have an unwarranted, irregular way of calculating gas, and then, by that, we're blocking our citizens' accounts, we're sending out accounts, we're leaving them without heating, and we're still taking away their counter-constitutional property that they paid for themselves. All of these citizens have to pay interest, the cost of the process. And he said that when they want to re-engage, they have to pay 1,000 and sometimes thousands of kuna to re-engage their gas. This whole problem is worth mentioning the prices of car gas that are more than in Germany. And since I'm running out of time, I'm just gonna say it a little bit more like this. The living wall believes that there are conditions in Croatia that the price of gas and car gas is reduced in the short term, so immediately by 30%, that illegal exclusions should be stopped immediately and that it should be turned from the gas market to the renewable energy market in the medium and long term. I remind you that these days, the Irish Parliament has made a decision not to invest in the gas market anymore, but to invest, therefore exclusively in renewable energy, sun, wind and other sources. Here's so much from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32154	Representative Ivan Pernar has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32155	Thank you, Your Honor. Today, the issue of the Law on this gas market is, however, our country has been leading one in each direction for a long time, a failed energy resource management policy. I'll look back only on the three-by-one capital errors that our governments have made. One was that we were white nights worth not to say, but we can say a hundred times as much as we sold them for, we sold them for nothing. Then, after we sold them for nothing, we were, or for little money, then we gave up gas fields in Syria for nothing. We said, we leave the infrastructure, we give you everything and we leave. So, is this how you manage state property? And be careful in the end, we're going in with the Italians in the business, so we're pulling the gas out... By what model? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the model, Italians get Croatian gas for small money. And then even though Croatia produces 80% of its gas needs, we sell half of our production to Italians at four times the price, but we import gas from the Russians. And actually because of that crazy policy, we found ourselves in a dependent position on Russian gas. And that's not the end of it. Then we impose sanctions against the country we are in a dependent position. And now the man who's looking at this logical sequence, let's say the illogical sequence of events wonders whether a child in a primary school, one of those students that I know would, for example, meet in high schools better manage a state-owned company than these experts and doctors of science. I'm afraid the biggest problem of our society is not the lack of experts. Dear God, we also had a prime minister who was a doctor of science, but their dishonesty, their corruption. And basically the reason why we pay expensive gas in Croatia is because we export cheap gas and import expensive gas. I wonder when this illogicality, when this strange system intends to change? And what hurts my heart the most is that no matter how governments change, however parties in power change politics goes on the same way. And then the question is whether it's two parties or actually one policy at the top, and the two parties are just implementing it. And unfortunately, I'm afraid that two parties actually run the same policy as in America and that it's actually a conspiracy of someone. And someone will say, these are conspiracy theories, but I assure you ladies and gentlemen that these are not conspiracy theories, that it is living truth. And I am sorry that Croatian society is the same policy that I have now condemned regularly supports the elections and I wonder where it ends. And Mr. Bulj has often talked about how we give billions to these wind power plants that are essentially privately owned. If the state already encourages the production of electricity from the wind, then why doesn't it build wind power plants and pay for it itself. Then what's going on? The cost is public, and the profit is private, and that is one continuous policy, and the sale of what brings profit, and the retention of what brings loss. And we're finally in a situation where people get a gas bill by, say, 1,200 kuna, and it could be 600 kuna or 700 kuna. We're in a situation where these new households don't have the money for these accounts to dig up their gas, they have to move on to solid fuels, we bring them back to the age of the industrial revolution. And finally, the question arises, will this law that we are bringing today solve their problems? Ask yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, and the answer will probably be no. And for this reason, since we're not dealing with important issues in a positive direction, it means that we stop selling four times cheaper gas to the Italians, if such an initiative came, I would support it. But watch out for what it is absurd, ladies and gentlemen, Russia is very far away from me to get that gas to Croatia, it has to go through Ukraine and a lot more, a lot of countries and the price of that gas is growing because every country through which the gas goes through is charging it. And we have this end of Istria in our own country gas fields and we have this gas that we can tell under our noses, we sell it, and whoever's thousands of miles away we import it. Where's the healthy logic, where's the healthy mind? And as I said just before, I won't support this bill because I don't see any benefits to neither the state nor our citizens. When some legal proposal comes that would be in the interest of citizens and the state, I'll raise my hand first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32156	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now I'm setting a half-hour break, and we're back to work at 2.30. The vote is after that on the agenda. The following is the final proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the gas market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 92, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee, which was adopted by the proposer during the debate and became an integral part of the law. The amendment was also submitted by Attorney Gordan Maras. I'd like to ask the Proposer's representative to make the same statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32158	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The government rejects the amendment proposal. This amendment puts us at risk of lawsuits against the Republic of Croatia for violations of competition and signed energy statutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32159	I'm just asking this before the amendment can be explained if I can say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32161	All right, be patient. Dad, you're gonna make it to lunch.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32162	Excuse me a moment, please. Representative Maras, I'd like to ask that you do not belittle the MPs. [[Intruder Maras: The lamb is still warm.]] The amendment, i.e. the applicant, explained his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32163	I wanted to say first that there were no conditions for us to vote at all on this law, the amendment, because the debate came to an end before the vote today on Friday. And in order to vote at all on this amendment, the government should be manifested. I need you to read the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I intend to send a written request that the Government be manifest to me and accept this amendment. And I don't think it can be discussed like this before the government at all. Look at the Rules of Procedure. That was my intervention, but you didn't let me tell before Mr. Chikotic came out.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32164	Thank you. I would like to ask the representative of the amendment's proposal to show his opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32165	.../Intruder Maras: And what are we going to do now that I've said this?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32166	It can be obvious, and if you have some difficulty with it then you can also react in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32167	Well, look, Rules of Procedure of the 51st, I'm sorry. Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure of the Government states that this amendment can only be accepted with the prior consent of the Government. A request for prior consent of the Government shall be submitted to the Government in writing together with the text of the amendment. Let me do it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32168	Here's the representative I'd like to ask, please. Please! [[Let's do it, please.]] Agent Maras, I'll give you an explanation. Article 51(4), in the debate in the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies, a representative of the Government may, without prior consent of the Government, accept the amendment of other applicants submitted to the Final Proposal for a Law proposed by the Government. Only if the proposed amendment does not change the essential provisions of the law. If the proposed amendment amends the essential provisions of the law, the proposed amendment may only be accepted with the prior consent of the Government. A request for prior consent of the Government shall be submitted in writing to the Government, together with the text of the amendments whose acceptance is proposed on the basis of reasons I'd like that. [[So that's what I'm asking you to let me do.]] The proposer's representative did not accept the amendment, so that the government's opinion is not required either.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32169	Well, that's how you interpret it. I mean, I'll stand here as long as it takes. I just wanted to tell the president it would be correct if you'd let me ask the government's permission to accept that. But since you won't allow it, I'll try another procedure. I'll see if I can appeal to the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, etc. or law enforcement, it doesn't matter. And since they're going to vote and it's very fun for Jasen Mesic, I'm going to try to explain what I actually wanted with this amendment and which is why I think it's possible to accept this amendment. So this amendment would make it impossible for Croatian gas to start selling from 1.4 in Italy, and this amendment directly benefits MOL and INA, and it goes to the harm of Croatian citizens. It means they're going to jump the price of natural gas. Whoever votes for, or against this amendment is benefiting MOL and damage to Croatian citizens. Since we've had a risk of lawsuits over the past few years, so we haven't gotten them, I don't see what would happen if that risk continued. So, if we're ready as a state to stand behind your citizens, all of you who are here will vote to accept this amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President, but I'm sorry you don't respect the procedure we should respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32170	Representative Maras, I have no intention of polluting. I read you an article in which you should see what the procedure is. If you have any difficulty with this, you have a way of reacting. I would ask esteemed MPs and MPs to vote on the proposed amendment are they in favour of being included in the final draft of the law? The vote is over. I find that the above-mentioned amendment has not obtained enough votes to be included in the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the gas market law. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 17 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act, together with the amendment adopted. The next item is the Proposal for a decision to appoint the head director of HRT. The proposal shall be submitted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media pursuant to Article 19. The law on Croatian broadcasting. The material's registered in the boxes. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? No, I don't. If not, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, who has applied for participation in the debate, the representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32172	Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is good that the proposal on candidates for director of HRT has been agreed so that this important national media can get management or first person management and that it can access what HRT expects, which is primarily cost reduction or better control of the funds on HRT, which is a more permanent problem as far as we know when it comes to HRT. For various reasons, it is not possible to establish adequate control of the availability of HRT funds, either because of the fact that there is a bad internal organisation, whether because of the fact that the way individual software solutions are negotiated and that certain HRT products are negotiated are not adequately controlled. The other thing that is also particularly important is to interrupt on HRT a kind of state that prevents professional and good communication between the people who create the programme and who depend on the implementation of the programme. Different forms of unhealthy competitiveness, different forms of political, ideological conflict of HRT actually block it from being what it should be, according to a contract that exists between the government and the HRT on the one hand and what the Croatian Parliament is giving it as its founder. If there is no possible professional and quality cooperation between people working on HRT, if the conflict between key actors in the production of the programme has been long, then there is no doubt that it is not possible to expect the HRT to carry out its legal obligations. And for this reason, it is extremely important and extremely important that an agreement has been reached on the candidate for director because we hope that this will alleviate these tensions that are more or less all of them sent to business and to the work of HRT, program implementation, the programme goal... HRT knows that. And it is so good that the key foreign coalitions in the ruling majority have agreed on the candidate's proposal and that what was not in line until this plenary session has been agreed today. We understand that this is not a step enough, but it was a necessary step, so then it also seems to us that it is extremely important for this reconciliation to continue, preferably wider. It would be good to include colleagues who are not part of the ruling majority, but we hope that there will also be conditions. As regards third things that are particularly important to national minorities, it is a matter of tolerance, a question of promotion of fundamental constitutional values including human rights, including social justice, including equality among citizens of different groups, and in this sense it is extremely important to maintain pluralism, to maintain tolerance, to maintain objectivity and to keep anything that is steep beyond that framework when the public media of HRT does not fit or find places within it. As for the candidate and what we have managed to learn not so much about him but above all about the programme he has offered, so Mr. Kazimir Bačić, the candidate for director, focused on several important issues in his programme. First, to simplify the organisation, to increase the efficiency of the organisation and to cheaper organisation, whether it is production, whether it is technology, whether it is business or the overall internal structure of the HRT, and it is certainly good to read, hear well. What would be good is if we heard any more arguments about how it would be done. If you want to reduce the number of directors, which actually means. There is no doubt that it is also extremely good to return to the regional study of HRT which at one point weakened or partially shut down itself or the former administration has decided that regional broadcasting centres should not actually have. And the decision to get those centers back is good, but we should see on what basis and what assessment it's doing. That there should be centres in Osijek, Split, Rijeka, Pula, Dubrovnik, there is no doubt about it. But how and how do you link them to the exposures that become in Zadar or Sibenik or Karlovac or Sisak, that is, of course, a question that requires some more data than we could see in this programme. Focusing on Croatia's multimedia progress and connecting HRT with other new media, which he rightly notes are not present. The HRT portal when compared to the portals of some other regional televisions I don't mention, big TV or big media is really modest. And there is no doubt that this is an indicator of a kind of slow progress of HRT given the technologies and communication technologies that have developed and which HRT actually fails to adequately integrate and integrate into its technological potential and in its technological capabilities. And it's good that Mr. Bacic puts an emphasis on it. And we hope to create assumptions that this becomes one of the important if not one of the most important media technology, media communication, media service components of HRT. It also makes significant comments regarding the current situation, which is good when it says that there is too much foreign programme and too little domestic programme. That's what we all notice, because for years, the production of HRT has actually been shut down, it's been going out since the '90s. Only recently in recent years has the external production increased somewhat, which then in different forms of collaboration with HRT actually compensates for the shortcomings or shortcomings or scarcity in the production of HRT itself. And when he says that the educational program should be strengthened, I totally agree. The formerly educated programme of HRT and Croatian Radio was one of the best components of the program. We need that, too. And the same goes for the science program, of course. When he says he doesn't have enough sports programs, we don't know all the reasons why that is. But no doubt that's why we need to create space. And at the end when he says that the information program loses the race on HRT, I mean first of all on television, not so much on the radio, I was working on my own, not losing the race, it is held in this game to the extent that it can be held with other media that are not as classical as it worked or as television. But that the information program loses the race is the truth. Now as Mr. Bacic thinks to increase this race, that is, make HRT's competence greater, it would be good to have more concrete answers, let there be more, but it would be good to have more concrete answers than we have in this proposal or its programme of work and management of HRT. We're not too much, I'm talking about the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, we're not too optimistic, not because we don't trust a candidate who's agreed, we're not talking about that kind of optimism, but we're talking about the fact that neither the energy nor the point from which that energy would be launched to fix the apartment on HRT. Not yet. We'll give him confidence to search that point. And we'll give him confidence to enrich the new and additional contents of this program that we're presented with. But what is more and especially important is the question of people who create a program on HRT. These are the 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and the rank of importance within the structure of the HRT, which depends on the management of the media service. And the issue is no less important than the Croatian issue, but the Croatian director's issue. And we hope that, these questions will become the same quality answer or not a less quality answer than they get with this proposal. Because that depends on what Mr. Bacic plans with his mandate and his candidacy. So the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this candidacy, that is, this candidate with these expectations that I made in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32173	Thank you. We have one replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32174	Comrade Pupovac, I would agree with most of your debate and as far as tolerance is concerned, as far as pluralism on HTV is concerned, that it should be in a larger form. Also when we talk about tolerance and when we talk about national minorities, and they have addressed it as the wealth of every society and relation to national minorities showing the relationship of the majority and at which the degree of Croatian society is at, then you, too, should at certain times when the main conflict against the majority is caused to be more explicit and accurate. For example, HTV transmitted what was good, before the Orthodox Christmas he transmitted directly, conveyed a Christmas home, where Prime Minister Vukic's envoy, otherwise declared Seseljevec, gave a speech that was brutal, challenging, which was a Milosevic speech. So my neighbours of Serbian nationality that I highly respect and with whom we have a good co-existence and who are already representing are always disappointed that you have not responded to this pro-militarian, pro-Serb performance that has been frightening above all for people of Serbian nationality because with these people I live. There was a call that he would defend the Serbs with all his means. That's not what Milosevic said in the 1990s. Your role in this, in pluralism, i.e. Toleration should be that you have no contact with such people at all. These are men who clink with weapons, who call the Croatian people Ustasha people what is not true. The Serbs gave great pain in the Homeland War, but many went the other way. So thank the Serbian national defenders, my neighbours, who together with us in the trenches, have defended free Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32175	Thank you. The reply to the replica, dear fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32176	Dear colleague Bulj encourages us to agree with the need for pluralism, tolerance and especially professionalism and objectivity when the Croatian radiotelevision is a national medium. And in this respect, we understand ourselves as partners in finding measures and in looking for the scope of what we understand as tolerance, pluralism, because they are not in themselves absolute units, but are always and daily established in our communications that we have daily or that we have daily and are confirmed as such. As for the issue of achieving the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, including the Serb national minority, we are confident that over the years we have created assumptions that representatives of the Serb national minority and other national minorities in the Republic have created a constitutional and legal framework within which they can fight to achieve their rights along with all other political actors. And this constitutional and legal framework, and this very space that we have been creating for years, is the best way to ensure that all the rights we still have to fight for are realised by other means and other ways, not only are they not necessary, but especially those who are opposed to it would not be welcome. So we just want to create as big and stronger alliance as possible with all actors on the Croatian political scene especially those representing The leading national political parties voted for by the majority of the majority of the majority people [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you very much.]] to be with them in as large a alliance as possible to fight for those rights. [[/Intrudica Jandroković: Thank you very much, dear colleague Pupovac. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32177	Thank you. We're moving on to final debates around the club of MPs. The first is the club of representatives of HNS and HSU Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32178	As far as we're concerned, I must say, we were not impressed by any candidate or candidate in this election cycle. Moreover, we notice that quality falls, level of enthusiasm, so if you want some possibility to create confidence that major changes will happen for the better. In principle, we have taken one position that says that we will support the proposal that they agree on by ruling and that in this way we will give an opportunity to the person around whom the consensus has been created to bring about positive changes in Croatia's broadcasting. There was no consensus this morning, and that's why we caught our support on the board and we were against it. However, this consensus was created during the day. It is obvious that HDZ and MOST colleagues have reached a certain agreement. What is their content we do not know, but we hope it was aimed at providing guarantees on the quality of work and positive changes on HTV, not anything else or different from that. Problems in Croatian broadcasting are burdened. On the one hand, a man who has worked on it for 32 years can be said to be a real person because he knows from the very system what all problems are. And on the other hand, those who say he's too attached to that house can be right, and they're doing it in responsible, managing positions so that he can change anything in it at all. I'm just going to remind you of the enormous discord in incomes. That's where five and a half thousand kuna receive more than 1,500 people. Three hundred people receive about three thousand kunas. But that's why one selected number of key Croatian television people has received between 15 and 30 000 kuna. I will remind you that despite the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, it is not revealed which 16 people have protected contracts with very or very high incomes. Croatian radio television and key Croatian people did not respect the Croatian Parliament's conclusion and thus ignore the founder's representative and should repeat that. As for Mr. Bačić, if he is thinking of doing anything, then he must show determination to conduct public procurement in a transparent manner, that complete external production is controlled, that it is impossible to pay 8 400 kuna of the installation of an average documentary film on HTV costs 1,900 and so on, and so on. It's a fair solution for people who work there, but also for those who don't do anything and who after being removed from the places where they get high coefficients still receive the same pay but do nothing. It is a practice to do so, to strengthen the spirit of creativity on Croatian radio television, to give the possibility to those who know how to work, but not the work of those who are officially employed there, not to cover the fabulous external productions. All these are the tasks of a man who will run Croatian radio television such as his task of establishing such a human structure that will produce a program for which we will not be ashamed and will not be beginner, amateur or dilettane or political, cheerleader but objective, transparent, except if it is possible to get as far away from politics as possible. Unfortunately, we haven't had a case before, and the HRT in the past few years has been proposing itself as a political messenger and as a television, especially television, with a small piece of radio which is not particularly viewed in the information programme. As far as we're concerned, we'll give you a vote for this candidate you've agreed with each other, but only for one single reason that since Monday we can drag him to learn figuratively, criticize you and remind you that you are responsible for everything he does or will not do, and we've counted enough times in this House of Commons what are all very open issues and public demands to save the reputation of public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32179	Thank you, too. Next debate of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32180	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The same dilemmas as the HNS we had but we didn't solve them the same way, we will be restrained over the election of the head director of HRT. We do not dispute the right of the ruling majority to agree on who will be chief director, but let us dispute the right to do so in the way she did today, and that is that de facto by morning we did not know who is the favorite of the ruling majority, that today on the board one representative of the other side of the club would be against and then within a few hours to achieve this agreement, I would say... so after the committee's session. It was clear in the media who represented what attitudes, who is whose candidate, who is whose favorite and finally came up with a third solution, which is apparently going to be supported by the majority in the Croatian Parliament. And the election of the head director of HRT is one of the ways in which the election is proposed and the choice is one of the illustrations of the difficult and burdensome functioning of the coalition because today de facto is the last or last working day of the Parliament when we could vote this according to schedule, of course a session could be called before that. So I'll repeat, we'll be in the debate contained and we want Mr. Bacic in our work a lot of happiness and success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32181	Thank you. The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club and distinguished counterpart Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, who rarely have so many discussions in this House, so many replicas, so many bile debates, so much to say passions such as debates about HRT. Some colleagues will say this is a political couple of excellence decisions to elect HRT directors. That's because we have such a legal framework that was passed at one time where the practically abolished administration and the law assigned the possibility that one man's principal director was actually carrying all the light stage. What is our thinking here for the future supposed to be? A year ago, the British Culture Minister criticised the BBC openly, criticised, openly, no one thought to say that it was political pressure that criticised him for seeking rationalisation and better business of the BBC. That's our main thought in this choice. We can't take it, and we won't put up with the secret pay annexes. That's inadmissible. We will not tolerate disrespect for the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament mentioned by the distinguished colleague Beus. We will insist on rationalising the entire HRT system, we will insist that financial and material grounds be created for reducing the subscription especially for pensioners and socially endangered. Why? Because we want to preserve the public media service in the long term because we want to prepare and adapt it, what can come to our debate next year in this House. No one here discusses the digital single market, the EU-led negotiations on the programme and the rationalisation of public media services, that there is a tendency in Europe to liberalise this market, is it said if they can go freely to Mandarins and shoes across the EU border, why can't audiovisual products, why can't radio dysfunction? It conflicts with EU freedoms. Get ready for that co-workers and colleagues, you'll come up with this debate soon. Public media service has to wait for it ready. We don't think that solutions were made by some people who were here before highlighted, whose role model was 70 and 80. We're modeling what's coming, we're modeling what's coming. In that sense, it will not only be the responsibility of the head director of HRT, it will be our responsibility, and a colleague from the ruling coalition, but also you from the opposition that you will give support in one way or another. We have a change of media legislation waiting for us to allow HRT to be restructured, to be transparent, to have transparent external production, to have the best possible public procurement and to prepare for a new situation that comes into the audiovisual segment in Europe. It won't just be HRT's responsibility. I know there's going to be a debate about the diary, the program, the news, too, but that's not really what we want to say. In that sense, he was raised in the ruling coalition by this proposal. Both negotiations and consultations lasted long because we wanted to come up with the most serious solution. The HDZ Club will support the selection of directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32183	Representative Miro Šimic answered the word on behalf of the Independent Lists club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32184	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, here on behalf of the MOST Club, I am pleased to choose the director of the HRT today that agreement has been reached. The truth is, we've been working out a little longer, Mr. Mesic said why. I think by choosing Mr. Bačić, we will get the person who knows this system, who has been working in that system for 32 years and who will meet the demands and political parties as well as the public. The requirements we all certainly have, it's that we have an objective public service, that we have a better quality program, that we have a more transparent way of managing without secret annexes, of transparent public procurement, of having a logical management of external production that will actually follow and produce lower costs. Why do I say lower costs and why is MOST having certain doubts? It is generally known that MOST and our political partners have reached a political agreement to reduce the subscription for HRT to 65 kuna. It was a dispute that was put before the Most and was not resolved by this afternoon. Given that we have agreed on this and that by the end of this year, Mr. Bačić's guarantees will soon be reduced to 65 kuna by the director. MOST has no more reason not to support him, and today's debate on this proposal shows one more thing that in some way the decision-making force is returning to the Croatian Parliament and I think today's debates have shown that the Croatian Parliament has this power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-02-17-0.u32185	This concludes the debate. We're going to vote on the debate point. I stress that the Croatian Parliament appoints the head director of HRT most of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 19. Law on Croatian TV, 76 votes. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision appointing the head director of HRT. Please engage in the vote. The vote is over. I find that most of the 90 votes for, 12 abstentions and no votes against, we have decided to appoint Kazimir Bačić as head director of HRT in the text as proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. We're starting the plenary session. Representative Bunjac.
