ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24843	A warm welcome from distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24844	Dear Mr. Vice-President on behalf of the HNS Club and the Croatian Party of Retirement I request a 10-minute recess to say something about some objections to supplementary health insurance or related to some announcements of additional health insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24845	Thank you, Mr. Hrelja. Dear colleague Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24846	I am looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the club Let's change Croatia about the problems of young football players in Croatian sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24847	Thank you. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24848	Thank you very much. I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on the state of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24849	I thank my colleague Bull. Dear colleague Blaženko Boban, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24850	... The public related to what was pollution, allegedly pollution of the source of the Jadro River in the Split-Castelan-Solin swimming pool. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24851	I thank my colleague Boban. That's all. So I'm setting a break. We'll continue at 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Stanko was requested by the HDZ Club by a respected colleague, Blaženko Boban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24853	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is also thanking my colleagues for letting me say first about this subject in view of the obligations we have. Namely, I would like to address the Croatian public and you respected MPs and MPs, these few days we have heard through the media the problem of polluting the river Jadro and clouded water. Mostly last night on the news kind of irritated me when they say a series of false things, so I'd like to explain some things. So, Jadro is the second source of betrayal throughout Europe for the betrayal of water. I have to say, it's incorrect information that it's not protected. The source of the Jadro River is maximum protected by double physical fences, video surveillance and all other means of protection needed, perhaps one of the most protected sources in the Republic of Croatia. I heard from the director of the Hygiene Institute in Split and those on a daily basis are doing an analysis, microbiologically Jadro is completely clean. The resulting streams and heavy rains, and very short is the underground streams are fast and do not have time to filter, show only opacity. I must say that bottled water has more stalats or chemical ingredients secreted by plastics in which the water is bottled than it is now alone from the source of the Jadro River. The analysis is carried out on a daily basis and this is paid by the Split-Dalmatia County daily analysis is carried out. Also, Jadro feeds almost 400,000 people with water. Many of these days have mentioned Jadro as a blur, and I am also responsible for coordinating with professional services and Split-Dalmatia County and the Split Institute that it is still one of the cleanest, clearest waters in the region of Croatia, thus and throughout Europe. Many of the ministry's reports about this have come from other utility companies, where other cities are powered by water, mainly in the karst area from Sibenik, Dubrovnik, and further, however, Jadro has somehow seized media attention precisely because of ha I would say so many people who are being fed. So Jadro is still really very clean, very drunk and I repeat once again this time when opacity is what Jadro is in some way cleaner than bottled water in any of the other packages given the chemical ingredients of stalactite. Yes, the pipeline and sewerage in Split plans in 2009 to build an additional hostage as well as this negligible segment of mud that happens due to the great streams in the very short karst area of the flood in the underground part of that area will and hopefully from that moment on more and that clear which is the only factor of this moment that the ministry has reported on the state of the Adriatic is going to be removed. So there is no concern, people today in the areas of Solin, Kaštel, Split and Trogir drink rather than bottled water. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24854	I thank my esteemed colleague Blazen Boban for this explanation. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Representatives Club, Stanko requested a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24855	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The reason for this break is one gentle announcement of a possible purchase of additional health insurance, although Minister Kujundzic has fenced there, but I always treat it as a test balloon, and I do not allow this institute personally on behalf of both the party and our coalition partners to play anyone in the country. Namely, we HSU with its partners collected over 100,000 signatures in 2015 against the purchase of supplementary health insurance. If someone once again announces the addition of an additional health insurance policy, we will collect 500 thousand signatures for the minister's shift. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So, let me tell everyone in advance that they can't play with this. We have an institute in which a million and 700 thousand citizens regularly pay 70 kuna of supplementary health insurance every month. We have an institute that pays its obligations within three weeks in health care, which is the only quality in health care or complete rarity where hospitals pay their suppliers a year late. So we have a public insurance company that makes it possible to use health care at the same price and those who have both those who do not have and those who are healthy and those who are sick. Take a look at this, inform the additional health insurance policy with private insurance companies from 85 to 200 kuna per month. It's the sick ones, man, the poor can't let it. This is an institute that rests on solidarity among generations, and if that healthy young man pays 5 kuna more for his grandmother too. And I think it's fair and correct and one social shocker that needs to be guarded by all possible forces. This public insurance company, unlike those who possibly channelled profits into private hands, had an excess income above the expenditures of 171 million kuna in 2016. This means that it can cover larger participations or can cover and increase the censorship because the state releases those who have less than 1516 kuna per person, according to the household article, or if the singles are 1936 kuna, all those below that income censorship on behalf of them are paid by the state to the supplementary health insurance policy. So we have a total public insurance company that injects into the health system very well and in time 2 billion and 200 million kuna a year and we play with it. People, that's inadmissible. Although the state does not fully fulfil its obligations towards 800, nearly 850 000 people for whom it is obliged to pay supplementary health insurance regardless of whether they are persons with disabilities, voluntary blood donors, students, etc. So let's keep what's quality and let's not forget, supplemental health insurance is framed by a special law, has its own special account within the HZZ, and the purpose of these funds is well known. Let no minister, no civil servant think he can use that money for anything else, it's money that came from a contract with citizens and with the state and can only be used for purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24856	I thank my esteemed colleague, Silavna Hrelja, for his explanation. The next stop came on behalf of Change Croatia's esteemed colleague, Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24857	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to talk here about the problems of young football players in Croatian sport. This refers to our first league and our football in Croatia. I'm not going to talk about the Viking penalty, I'm not going to talk about Dinam and Hajduk, I'm going to talk about young people, I'm going to talk about young kids that we've all been taking to practice together, some of them have passed and poor people have come to the Croatian club where they play in our first league. And what's happening to them? They don't know that these young football players are separate craftsmen. So any player playing in the Croatian league must open his craft and become a craftsman in the 20th year or 18th, depending on when he signed the contract. What's going on here? That same young player plays and clubs don't settle their expenses signed by contract. These contracts can be from 5 to 30, 50 thousand kuna and these young players come into blockades. The state regularly charges 14% interest, parents come into one big problem, they can't help their children, unfortunately most of the children are from some poor family, they're not children from some rich because the rich don't like to sweat and usually our young poor are sweating. And here are some and become good players, such as Modric, Mandžukić and others, who have and earn money and we all watch that part of the sport, we watch that part of the sport and that profit that they make and nobody sees, these, they call me parents, they pray, they appeal to me to say it in the Assembly, and here I use it, over a hundred young players are blocked in Croatia. A hundred young craftsmen, children who don't know, who have to find themselves and people who will run the papers and pay it, and then the state blocks them, charges them, charges 14% of the interest, and those children and parents come into one big problem. Well, gentlemen, we have a rule on the Croatian Football Federation that no club can get a license unless it settles all costs to the players. What's going on? Our clubs normally continue to play along with the promises of some club leaders that they will settle it and our children remain blocked. I appeal to the Croatian Football Federation and ask that what is urgent, as soon as possible change that rule in the HNS and the status of players. And you know who has this status? Croatia, Slovenia, Slovakia and the Czech Republic and nobody else in Europe. And we always catch something that's not good. Well, it's a shame that we in this Croatian country, wherever we put our hand, have a problem. We know that sport is healthy for our children, we've all led our children by the hand to be athletes, to live healthy, and we, in our 20s, 18s, 25s, make disabled people. It seems to the children on the psyche,... A player who can't play, who doesn't get paid and can't make money for what a club signed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, gentlemen, the Football Federation has money, let them measure their debts to these clubs, so let them sue the clubs, let them collect from those clubs today, tomorrow. The second thing, every club should be an institution that takes on a young player and pays for the player's obligations, even if it's in the minimal and the contract let them agree further on something to help the sport. Because this kind of sport in Croatia what does it bring? Brings us kids to go, leave the sport, parents sad. They've invested so many days. You know from 7 years to 18 years each morning that kid goes to training, separates days, school can't go, I can't finish colleges playing football and eventually they're disappointed at their age and of course they're leaving the sport. And there are those guys who are married, they have kids of their own, then they get divorced because they can't finance their own family. If that's the intensity of sports to make disabled people, then gentlemen here, we who are in the Assembly must say it very clearly once, gentlemen, let's just go work on that law. If one city can't finance 20 professional players, then it doesn't have to be that sport in the professional league, let it deal with amateur sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24858	I thank my esteemed colleague Ivica Misic for his explanation. The next break was requested on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Honored counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24859	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am going to talk again about telecommunications in front of the MOST club. In this case, Croatia's Network Activities Regulatory Agency is witnessing that the president of the HACOM Council of Doctors of Science, Drazen Lucic, has been indicted for violating the privacy of former workers. So, in carrying out his duty as head of HACOM, he was appointed to this High House. To remind ourselves 4 years ago when the Government of Zoran Milanovic appointed, proposed and appointed Mr. Lucic then raised the opposition and some of the ruling ones, and even some of the ruling ones who are sitting here now that it is the twilight of democracy that put such a person at the head of this important agency. Since Lucic, then, has filed a report with the DORH on the grounds of public procurement abuse, an attempt to obtain an unlawful advantage and not to list any further. In his term, there were more applications to the DORH than telecommunications associations and business partners through labour and trade union inspections. Well, here's what's most important about the workers that brought this charge. We have seen both the last days and for a long time in the media, as well as reports on the Transport Committee where me and my colleague Grumoja were against, the only one unanimously against that report. We see that millions of kunas of public money have been spent on lawyers just to deal with his employees. He used means huge money to save himself, and that's public money, which is why we have these problems in society that my predecessors have been saying because money is being spent to keep these Pharaohs inside agencies, not to mention ties, scarfs, holes that have been bought for quarter of a million kunas, as well as numerous teams that are in millions of amounts. And how much does his trips and trips to a number of exotic lands on spiritual restoration to see how his driving affects the growth of plants? We can only assume. We all already know that Lucic pays the most expensive business space for 24 euros per square, so more than 100 million kunas of public money in his term. A simple account suggests that any HACOM worker could rent a house and pay it in Zagreb and that every employee could work at home freely, so it was rented 5,000 square meters per 24 euros is 120000 euros per year. Drazen Lucic also banned trade unions in his company, because this is obviously his firm, not our citizens' company, i.e. which is followed by a first-degree verdict. But a member of the Council we've chosen and who's been keeping us informed for a year that something's been rotting in HACOM. Regardless of the recommendations of the Government of Croatia, HACOM must keep an eye on Lucic's consumption, new charges against its workers and former and present. He travels without justification abroad. In the last 15 days, Paris and Barcelona. Can we as a Parliament allow the public institution we founded to prohibit the work of unions and thus violate the direct constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Could we, as founders of the agency, ignore the memos of members of the Council asking us to resolve irregularities and illegalities? On the other hand, the mandate of Lucic has been remonopolised to the telecommunications post office market. The professional public is also familiar, and on several occasions he told his colleague Grmoje that a dual sex was re-created on the telecommunications market and we know how to manage networks in the area of the Republic of Croatia and telefon operators. Why are we paying the regulator if he's carrying out monopolization, not market liberalisation? It means only his private interest and interest of the agency. I therefore propose from this place that the Government of the Republic of Croatia urgently initiate the procedure for the replacement of the head of the HACOM so that we can discuss and vote here on the leaders of the heavy resistors of no less than 13 billion kuna. And finally, to repeat again in telecommunications and HACOM is a huge crime and it is possible to insist on being led by people who will protect the public interest and our citizens, not by foreign telecommunications operators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u24860	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the reason of the break. We're moving to agenda points. It is next - Proposal for a law amending the Law on Associations, first reading, P.Z. No. 98. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 95 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The materials were delivered to you in boxes. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was carried out by the parent committees and the Legislative Committee, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Is it possible that the proposing representative would like to give an additional explanation? Okay, thanks. The committee's reporters? No, thank you. I am opening a debate and we are moving on to debates on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's gone, thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary shall appear at the Ministry of Administration, Mr Mihovil Škarica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32830	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs. The intervention in the existing Associations Act is very small in fact by the applicable Association Act, it is prescribed that the statutes of the association must contain provisions on the appearance of the seal. This draft draft law proposes to delete that obligation for associations with the property of a legal person, thereby implementing a reform measure to abolish the use of the seal or implement the May 2016 conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which establishes the obligation to make appropriate amendments to the rules which will abolish the obligation to use the seal. Such a legal novel will contribute to the simplification of procedures that in practice require the use of the seal, but also save on the cost of making the stamps. That'll be all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32831	I thank the honourable Secretary of State, Mr. Michovil Škarica. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32832	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, we see that there will be changes to the seal, so there will be no obligation to form and so there will be no burden to the associations. I am personally interested in whether you have information as accurate as possible from the budget of the Republic of Croatia as the state budget, local and regional goes away money for associations? I am interested in this solely because of what associations are supposed to be the wealth of civil society and which should be needed for the development of civil society, but the fact is that the public knows that many associations do not have functionality i.e. That they serve not what they should serve but are their own purpose, so I wonder if you have that information. If not, it would be good for you to see this number of associations and funds as many associations receive at all levels and where they spend on seeing that they are numerous today, we also have humanitarian associations that do their jobs and associations that are really involved in the development of civil society, but many serve and purpose are themselves, so I would be very interested if you have that number and how much it goes to these associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32833	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the replica. State Secretary Mr. Scissor's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32834	Your Honor, I don't have that information right now. The Department of Administration actually only manages the register of associations and conducts supervision of associations. The financing of associations registered in the Republic of Croatia is in charge of the government's Association Office. I appreciate the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32835	I thank you for your response to Mr. Skarica's esteemed secretary of state. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32836	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. So we should certainly welcome this legislative amendment because it goes in that direction that the government announced, even the previous government of Mr. Oreshkovic, is now the government of Mr. Plenkovic to reduce unnecessary costs to all those who operate on the market and in the case of associations that are obliged to register and then make a stamp. So the seal goes unartificially into history, but what needs to be paid particular attention to here is your ministry, you need to see all the systems leading to modernisation in general of all the jobs that citizens are exposed to today, and that is especially through the system of e-Citizens who, unfortunately, have not yet come to life to the extent that we would like. There's a number of educations needed. The e-Citizen system is looking for two-way communication and that's the problem with people. I should say so and make an effort to go to FINA to take or to the Tax Administration now I don't remember, I need somewhere to go and pick up the data for the very registration on that system because I don't think you have any idea at this time how many citizens are using this system, how many of them are involved in this system because new technologies will certainly enable us through electronic signature and time stamp much simpler and better business. So this change should certainly be welcomed. Of course, there are still a series of laws that need to be changed to make the seal go down in history.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32837	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. I'd like to ask my distinguished colleagues not to disturb the speakers, if you have anything to discuss. My colleagues, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you not to disturb the speaker. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Secretary of State, Mihovil Škarica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32838	Your Honor, I can only agree with you and the Ministry of Administration to expand the system of e-Citizens and its full functionality. What's good in the system of e-citizens is that it's been launched and that it's opened the door to this two-way communication that hasn't fully revived yet, but in the reform measures of this ministry and the entire government, it's that this two-way communication that interoperability or communication of citizens with the administration is happening in a two-way way, certainly, it's in our plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32839	I thank you for your response to Mr. Skarica's esteemed secretary of state. We're moving on to the committee's reporters, do they want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists for the debate, a respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32840	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Today we have the subject of associations but actually in the background is a reform measure. I would just go back to what was in the explanation and stated when the conclusion was made, when the government reached the conclusion that it was going with the removal of the seal. That was, I'm sorry, last April, April 28th. I'll just mention what it said back then. So 1st conclusion has been reached, all the authorities of the state administration write down all the regulations mentioning the necessity of using the seal to move towards that change, to erase it. What was the deadline? 15 days. So April 28, it was 15 days to do that. We are today, here we are in March next year. It's actually reform the way we run it. I also commend the Ministry of Administration because I have not met here before because I was the one who pushed while I was the minister of this law to change it, abolish it. At the end of the day, even if someone said to a certain institution, it's no longer necessary until we replace it. But unfortunately, there wasn't that either. And this is the first law after practically 10 months that comes before this esteemed home to be made. And that's when we said, we don't want it to be a change where everyone's going to wait for the law to change, because I don't know how to align with the EU, to bring some other needs they have, but we want it to change right now just that part. And it's in this bill of law, so it's just an obligation to define the seal in the statute, which is, in fact, finally and, in other words, the abolition, just remove it, nothing else. I don't see why it hasn't joined so far that everyone else pleads and especially why it hasn't joined in... in the company sector, in the private sector to free them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we even have a decision where the high court has said about companies that is not necessary and we are still listed in the Court Register Act. And now, they'd say why these 15 days aren't respected. Somehow everyone saw the government crisis and we don't have to do anything. Let's all stop, it's been seven, eight months, no need. Who knows, when a new set comes, maybe they change their attitude so no one will expose themselves. And we keep thinking, politically we don't think the way we're supposed to be economically, entrepreneurially, that it's a measure that everyone agrees on. In the end, it was also a measure that was supported by the chambers of all the competent, of the other measures. And then what happens? We are actually alimony of this and brings the current government on 5 January of this year an action plan in which it says we are going to lift the seal. I say, well, there's no specified time but then we had 15 days. Now it's over and since 5.1 we have two months gone by again and this is the first regulation to come. I only speak on the Doing business scale if we want to be competitive, in this way we will surely achieve what minimum standards do not endanger any budget or harm any structure that should provide income at some level. So we haven't been able to practically change that for 10 months. But here, I'd just like to mention that on one side we're going with a reform measure, we're going to break the obligation, we're going to make it easier for people. On the other hand, I'm reading a decision about direct payments in agriculture that may have been studied, so it stands for obligations around soybeans, so soybean soybeans, they sow, and we know there's also so many farmers who sow soybean soybeans. The ceiling at its own risk. Is that good, it's not good, how to solve it. And what did we put in there? Let's jump that, have certified seeds and deliver to the Agency for Payments a copy of the accounts and certificates from the bag. You know what that is? It's, you have a hundred sacks, you have to rip off every bag, you have to stack it up, you have to carry the papers. I think it's easier then to leave a stamp if it is, so maybe it'll hit the seal and say, I guarantee as owner of that agricultural holding, I stand behind it, I didn't use a seed that wasn't certified, or I used a seed that was certified. So I'm only talking about the illogicalities that we do, instead of systematically moving towards facilitating the business of commercial entities, in this case the associations, we find new administrative measures again because of the assumption that they're all thieves. And it's bad that we're starting with this assumption that everyone wants to play the system and then we're making it difficult to function and we're creating a new basis for developing parallel systems to bypass the law. And to go back to the associations, this is one of the measures. And of course, there was a lot of talk about associations about withdrawing funds from the state budget. But we forget that at the level of local self-government, small football clubs, small hunting societies work, small cultural artists who barely survive. No, we put them in, you have to run a lot of bookkeeping, you have to report. Someone who has 2, 3, 4 thousand kunas or 5 gets maximum, he needs to look for new funds to pay for accounting. This is, so we forget that when we go to solve if the problem is to focus on those who are large associations, to see their sources of income, to see if they have some sustainability or are literally based primarily on the state budget, on the national foundation, to see how we can optimise them, perhaps push them right in that direction of economic activity that what they are using now through the form of an association should also be taxed. No, we skip all that procedure and punish the little ones again. And we keep coming back, we need to encourage entrepreneurship, we need to encourage new ones coming in, we put new restrictions on them. Lately, here's the only measure I've seen that's been encouraged in this part of it is the release for beginners, for new businesses in the economic chamber. But then, on the other hand, we happen to be in the craft chamber because we've changed the model to increase the fees. In fact, it is something that cancels both this measure and this good intensity and should be taken into account that any regulation that we introduce is not only about whether it refers directly to what is visible, but rather about how it has adverse effects and how much it is in conflict with what is the intensity of both past government and this government, which is encouraging entrepreneurship, encouraging local initiatives and facilitating life for everyone not only the economy of associations, but also about citizens. And by MOST this proposal will get support, but we also expect in future time that all laws, and the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness I have and I have seen it listed, there is a series. We may have about thirty, forty regulations that everyone should come here because everyone needs to make such a quick decision and that should be settled in the next month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32841	I thank my distinguished colleague Tomislav Panenic for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Panenić, you've talked a lot about the reasons for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Associations Act and their efficiency that I don't actually see. No efficiency will occur, no rationalisation, no operationalisation, and no economic savings because associations are non-profit organisations of 95% and do not do business, neither market nor work. What worries me about erasing the obligation of the stamp and not signing an electronic signature that opens up a wide range of possibilities for manipulation, abuse and who knows what other options that will contribute to the fact that the leaders of the association and their narrow leadership will have terrible problems. Until it is prescribed that the document in legal traffic is whether it is from an association or a legal person of any kind or a company, crafts or any other way of verifying, I think it is not the signature itself that can be credible and which can contribute to the absence of abuses, manipulations, frauds and the rest. It was therefore necessary to accept that what is prescribed by the associations should also be put into this law, and why exactly the associations are the first ones to know that they will not have to prescribe that they have the appearance and description of the stamp in the statute. It doesn't make any savings. It's just an extra cost, because now we're going to have to call in congregations that are going to change the statute so that there's no more going to be that in the statute, because the law no longer requires it. I mean, we don't have to. We don't have to. The law has been passed, we don't have to, but we're actually going to have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32843	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josip Dakiæ, for the replica. Answer, dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32844	Dear colleague Djakic, I will tell you about this personal experience. You go to Germany, buy a car, someone write you a piece of paper and sign it. Check it out, check the customs plates, get to the Croatian border, get to customs. You know what they ask the question then? And where's the seal on that? If it was acceptable for the German state to sign a vehicle worth tens of thousands of euros and send it abroad and trust that signature, we are not as sure as Croatia to say those who will be relevant and say, no, it is the signature that must be. We're talking about the general release of everyone. So they came, and I said it myself, and I resent that the associations came first. Why didn't the first companies come? Let's ask why the first laws need to be made easier. It's a question we put before the government and where we want an answer. I'm saying, of course the associations, I'm not just talking about that financial. I'm talking about commitment. You were wearing a seal. Every time you move somewhere you go I don't know in retirement you need to take it out, says the request but it has to be stamped. You know how much travel expenses are, in a waste of time, in a commitment that will be to everyone, not just to associations. And as for associations and their functioning now is actually the right time when we go at the moment of the election all candidates will run from association to association, they will promise everyone, give some small money just to get the approval of the members. So, these same associations that we're going to call now, maybe now and here some of them, then they're going to show up there and say, vote for this and that because that's acceptable. Then we won't talk about facilitating their functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32845	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32846	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Panenić, in your debate, you said something that was fraternizing me, and I believe Croatian citizens as well. You cried out here to the Croatian public that the HDZ and MOST government failed, be careful this failed in 9 months to pass two laws that abolished the obligation for companies and craftsmen and now associations no longer use stamps. Be careful how ineffective it is that you are now here as part of the ruling coalition in front of the Croatian public wondering how this is possible, why this did not happen, whether it was some obstruction in the state services, which is why we failed HDZ and MOST to take this small step to facilitate business and abolish trade marks. And we remember everyone here Mr. Oreshkovic and those famous press statements you can put the stamps in the drawers, you can forget about it. It's a major reform the Most launched. You, Mr. Panenic, personally, were on that day of media riding, saying that you were brilliantly proposing, and now here you are following this pay phone and saying that now that the government of Andrej Plenkovic on January 5th has again made the same announcement as Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic's Government in May. So get serious people, so this is ridiculous. What kind of authority is this? In seven months, you failed to pass an ordinary law to lift the stamps, and now you're spreading the surprise and I don't know what you're blaming the officers for your incompetence and incompetence of HDZ and MOST. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32847	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. The answer to the esteemed colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32848	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras. Here's a good thing to lower your voice in all of that. I'd just say that if you weren't so upset the moment you broke up that reform, when you and your club of representatives raised your hand to drop the government. So that's when that reform stopped and you wanted a change like that. Now what you can't call me is that in the end I'd go back the same way to yours. May I be the Vice President of the Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32849	Dear colleague Maras, I would kindly ask you not to enter the speaker's word, let him finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32850	Thank you. I'd just return perhaps which isn't correct, but in the same way your initiative to abolish the HGK membership fee, so you're starting on time. Why didn't you handle it? That's something we should always ask ourselves. At least I'm honest, so then I say here it's supposed to be done, it needs to be speeded up and everyone has to be involved. These nicknames everyone needs to look at in the mirror actually what I didn't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32851	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32852	Croats and Croats. Your Honor, Vice President. This is when it comes to associations and I felt the need to say something about my former Association of Special Police from the Homeland War Krpelj Vinkovci, which has been working since 2000, so all these years she has marked the death of her 12 members in the Borovo Sela 2.5, and for all those years she has managed to get two thousand kuna in support of the then Croatian Defence Minister Mrs Jadranka Kosor. So it would only be for the comparison of receiving so two thousand kunas in 16 years that we got to read what some other associations got. So I read about the understanding of financial support to civil society organisations in the area of international development cooperation from the funding of the Croatian State budget. Center for Peace Studies entitled "Two Conflicts, Two Spaces, a Shared Wish for Peace" 250 thousand kuna. The desire for peace can be seen as it is. Zdenac “Prevention of Infectious Diseases in Tanzania” 150 thousand kuna, prevented me from knowing what they bought for prevention. European Education Forum 240 thousand, GONG 250 thousand, Documents Centre for the Facing of the Past 248 thousand kuna, Reflective of the Sustainable Development of the Community 249, Centre for Women Victims of War 250 and Babe "Be active, be emancipated" 243,000 kuna, and are not even the biggest topic to be used in the defence of Ms Anastasia used by these 240 thousand kunas. Luckily, this Anastasia is ours, and it's not Russian Anastasia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32853	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Stevie Culeu, for the replica. The answer to the esteemed colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32854	Dear colleague Culey. Each of us will find ourselves, whether personally or through a family member in some association he believes will fight with his contribution, especially when we find ourselves in the role of trying to act through an association to be successful, then we are unkind. We resent it when we do not have support, it is not only financial support, we are uncomfortable and we do not have the support to believe that this goal is for the improvement of Croatia. And it is really necessary sometimes to find a measure where these resources are allocated for something that is not Croatian interest in what is Croatian interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32855	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32856	Comrade Panenić, you have well noted that we have numerous associations in local self-government that are very difficult to exist, and they are very important. So are sports associations, cultural associations and civil society, and especially sports associations. And the fact is that today we have a huge problem that these associations have to respect laws that are small, with a small budget that they have to ensure that our children have the opportunity to play sports. While we have a problem with the roof organization of the Croatian Football Federation where the Sport Office must send a letter to the CNS to respect the Sport Act. It's a message essentially one catastrophic, that the roof organization essentially the key to sport is to deal with our children primarily in these border areas, i.e. Undeveloped areas while children have the option of choice and in the smaller areas they do not. Indeed, the HNS with a disregard for the Sport Act with all its shortcomings and pluses showed those employees on the ground essentially one bad message. And with this move, here's the MOST has insisted on it for a year and another political option to respect the Sport Act. Your message, essentially your position, is what kind of law we are, where those who use money in large amounts of public in..., and it is about sport of what is most important in undeveloped areas, but again, in developed areas in the city of Zagreb and other children have the opportunity to deal with sports, what is this message to those people who volunteer and their time separate themselves from the fact that they are able to deal with sports, things with their activists in their midst to make it possible. So the HNS has been one shame so far because this behavior towards these people and our children, and at the expense of the Croatian citizen is the bottom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32857	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the replica. The answer to the esteemed colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32858	It may also be the real question of how the roof organization deals with its actual lowest levels of competition and sure that amateur, volunteer clubs have a number of problems. One of the problems, if, I don't know a football field owned by local self-government, you know how I can use it? Only if the football club gets the right to use it on a public call. So if he wants to have a locker room, there's got to be a public call. There's always someone else who can answer it. So it's important that we also put administrative burdens on us because when a state audit comes into local self-government and sees that no competition is conducted says but it's not right, you have to do it. So even if you have two, three associations that share one space, you should actually get one of them and get the right through the competition. And we're actually making it difficult, making life difficult, especially in rural areas. And for one such football club as you mentioned, what's the biggest expense? Not the equipment they're dealing with, they're trying through donors, not travel expenses, where they're driving themselves, where they're risking their lives to bring children and younger categories, and everyone's expensive to the football game, but they come to judges who have to pay, who have to pay through bills, where there's no communication about what's the biggest cost, which makes it difficult for the first steps in the competition, where someone prescribed it has to be the main judge, there's got to be two assistant judges, maybe one is enough. But that communication on how to save sport at those lowest levels I think we need to open up and that's where I'm going to fight for the quality that we're going to have later on through athletes who recognize the world. One Shuker will only be stopped if we motivate the first generations and not that, as with you or me, football clubs and other sports clubs disappear as people disappear from our fields, as well as sports and the overall social life disappears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32859	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32860	Thank you, dear Vice President. When I saw this number of applications immediately, it was actually clear to me that at least this legislative proposal would be talked about, because if only a legislative proposal were to be discussed, perhaps only by acclaiming would support the proposal. And I think most of the colleagues who have debated so far haven't really understood the intensity of this proposal. So this proposal to amend and supplement this law just repeal the provisions on the appearance of the seal. So not the seal is lifted but one administrative barrier is lifted and it is left to the associations to determine on their own what that seal will look like and whether it will have it at all. And once, only once in fact, the congregation they will hold and comply with their statutes will avoid having to change this matter ever again in their statutes and until now the provision has been such that virtually any changes they have to call new congregations. And when we open up the subject of associations and all of these topics that we've opened so far, I think this is one extremely important law, that it really needs one comprehensive amendment and compliance with a lot of other laws. Even when we talk about young athletes, football players, ways of funding, taxation that is truly discriminatory when we talk about associations with small budgets and large budgets but it is certainly a topic that we must leave behind for another time, open up a broad public debate, harmonize a lot of laws to have a transparent work of associations. And certainly what needs to be done most, and it is certain that it needs to strengthen the capacity for education of people who work in associations but also strengthen the system of supervision. Because today, in my Dubrovnik-Neretva County, we have over 600 registered associations and I am sure that of those 600 registered associations at least 500 do not share in accordance with the statutes, that most of them may even have, in accordance with the provisions of the Association Act, expired the deadline in which they should convene congregations because by force of the law, they should be deleted from the register of associations, but this is one mess that needs to be cleared, this is only one small step that the Ministry of Administration has taken but certainly this matter requires a much wider, much more serious and more comprehensive, in the debate on a much wider scale, including other ministries and interested public to have associations that are representative and transparent and that act in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32861	I thank my esteemed colleague for the replica. The answer to the esteemed colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32862	Thank you. Fellow Kristic, I will only give an example of this in fact how it will facilitate business, the creation of associations. So far you've had to define in the statutes, maintain the founding assembly, submit the request to the state administration's office with that seal that had to be hit and then come there and they refuse you for example. For a name that may not be suitable, it needs some kind of change. Then throw that seal away and then go back to the congregation with a new proposal and make another seal. I mean, it's us. And that, let's complicate where it might be. And then we're talking about going to start businesses by electronic means, opening accounts by electronic means. So I say, I stand behind it, it's not politics, it's just a need in life. I personally don't want to use the seal anymore, I hope all citizens do, and it needs to be lifted at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32863	I thank you for your response to the distinguished colleague Panenic. The next call came from a distinguished colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32864	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with your presentation and with your claim, i.e. the bill to abolish the appearance of the seal by the statute, i.e. to remove all administrative barriers that hinder any initiative to establish a legal form of association. However, I would also touch this section you mentioned about bookkeeping that associations must run full accounting. So the association for the first three years has to run double accounting and only when it proves that it can simply, after 3 years, start simple accounting. I don't know what else to call it. So at the beginning we kill every civil initiative that wants to work through non-profit organisations or legal forms of association, or develop business tomorrow and open jobs and on the other hand we have a legal form of association that literally millions are going through, if we don't control it and these little ones in the beginning we're going to lock them up so they don't even start at all. I think that control should be directed right at those who, through whose business millions go uncontrollably. And those who are still on the move and who are establishing themselves and who are trying to get their own initiative to live up to orderly business, we should encourage them to take off all the administrative barriers that bother them on their way to establishing and doing business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32865	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ninčević-Lesandric, on the replica. And the answer, dear fellow Panenic, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32866	Thank you very much. Well, you've actually noticed this well. So when someone has to go, then first trip him to be hard in life, even though I don't know at least a hundred kunas to get someone to do you a favor, you have to give it a month. And what happens then? The same association would have started to work. He comes primarily to his community or city and says give us for that cost. We haven't done anything yet, and already someone's forcing us to have the cost and we can't move. So that's the one weight that that provision has. On the other hand, since I have my own list, a group of voters in the local elections and where we also have to deliver reports. We're looking for a very simple form, we're asked to list the donations we've received, we're sending to the State Audit Office, we're sending out the incomes, expenditures. Three papers. That's what he's talking about. Therefore, it does not need to be specifically shaped. For a simple association to a certain limit that the legislator should define, it is a documentation that will not burden anyone or the association or anyone who wants to control and will see the basic, constituent parts of their activities. And of course they have to justify their existence in the area they work in. Whether they get funds or not is again the responsibility of primarily local self-government as it encourages them or if, I don't know, if they don't act useful to that community restricts, and also the state if someone works for this country, this people encourage them, and those who work against simply saying that we don't have enough resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32867	I thank my esteemed colleague Panenic for his reply. We move to the next debate on behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Marko Šimic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32868	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on Associations, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in the parliamentary procedure. According to the official record in 2014 there are 52450 associations, which is actually one association of 82 inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. The amount of funding allocated to associations in that same year amounted to a billion 14 million 347 thousand 95 kuna and 41 lime. The most common activities for which associations are registered in the Republic of Croatia are sports, cultural, economic, social, health, national and religious activities, and other activities with a share of more than 20%. In this debate, I will give a brief overview of the concepts and experiences of the association in society, its definitions, roles, legal framework, proposed amending the laws with the intended consequences, and the final and most important position of the Croatian Democratic Community Club in the Croatian Parliament in this bill of law. The Association shall be any form of free and voluntary association of several natural persons, i.e. legal persons, who, in order to protect their breakthroughs or take possession of general interests and without the intention of obtaining profits, are subject to the rules governing the formation and operation of that form of association. Associations as the most numerous civil society organisations play a multiple role in each society. They are equally involved in building a democratic, open, inclusive, rich and socially fair, sustainable, and environmentally conscious society. They are a correction of the authorities, a link between citizens and the public sector. Joining the principles of non-profitism, self-organization and transparency, and calling for recognition of volunteer work as well as entrepreneurship. Associations encourage citizens, private and public sectors, above all, to cooperate in the implementation of initiatives of interest for the common good. The source of the right to association in the Republic of Croatia is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which states in Article 43: “Anyone guarantees the right to free association in order to protect their breakthroughs or take over social, economic, political, national, cultural and other beliefs and objectives. For this reason, everyone can freely establish trade unions and other associations, join them or step out of them in accordance with the law. The right to free association is limited by the ban on the violent endangerment of the democratic constitutional order, and independence and unity, the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. The legal framework for associations has been set up by the Law on Associations. I'm not quoting the articles. I will just say that it provides for the establishment, legal position, operation, registration, financing, assets, liability, status changes, supervision, termination of the existence of an association with the property of a legal person, and registration and termination of the activities of foreign associations in the Republic of Croatia if the special law is not different. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Association Act shall be subject to the mandatory content of the statutes of the association where the appearance and content of the seal are indicated in subparagraph 3 as a mandatory part of each Statute. This bill proposes eradicating it. In 2016, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its national reform programme, in section 4.2, has ordered the central authorities of the administration to analyse the rules of their jurisdiction in which these regulations relate to the obligation to apply the seals of legal and natural persons carrying out their registered profit or non-profit activity in administrative, judicial and other proceedings, business communication and other actions carried out by those persons. Following this, the obligation to draw up appropriate amendments to the rules which will abolish the obligation to apply the seal has been established. Since the Law on Associations stipulates that the Statute of the Association must contain provisions on the appearance of the seal, this draft law proposes the implementation of that conclusion by the Government, all in order to modernise business processes while supporting the economy through operationalisation, creating a simpler business environment in the Republic of Croatia. As the legislator himself stated in the opening statement of the implementation of this reform measure of the association with the property of a legal person, he will no longer have the obligation to prescribe in the statute the appearance of the seal, which will contribute to the savings in the procedures which in practice require the use of the same. I would like to point out once again that this bill is only part of a package of reform measures that should result in multiple savings in the public and private sectors in the procedures requiring the use of the seal. By measuring the cost model standard as part of the action plan to reduce the administrative burden on the economy, it was calculated that the disbursement of nearly 6 million kuna, for example. the removal of the seal in the business process or the establishment of close to 23 000 simple companies with limited liability and limited liability companies with only one founder. It is important to say that this legislative proposal was discussed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Legislatives at the sittings and supported by unanimous decisions by this draft law in the first reading. After the definition and role of associations in society, legal frameworks and proposed amendments to the law, I will also make my own position on the proposed amendment. I believe that, if and for the same purpose, it is possible to introduce in the business communication of companies, companies, and institutions and other business entities which, through their letters or acts, create greater obligatory consequences, and financial obligations and burdens from associations, then the same measure is possible for the sake of a faster, more efficient and simplified procedure and a reduction in the cost of business and business communication of associations without negative consequences for their work and functioning. Following all of the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the HDZ in the Croatian Parliament, this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Associations will support and refer it to another reading where representatives clubs and representatives will individually have the opportunity to participate in the debate and make this legal solution a better and more complete one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32869	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Simic, for this debate. We have two replicas. The first one was answered by a respected counterpart, Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32870	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Simic, you mentioned the costs of the association a billion and 300 million kuna. Since I come from the Franak Association, I have to say a few words about the Franak Association which has enabled its activities, several years of activities, above all, that through collective judgment all debtors who have spoken variable interest rates in an illegal manner can get overpaid interest. And secondly, more specifically, it allowed 55 thousand families, about 55 thousand families, to reduce their debts by a total of 6.5 billion kuna and to pay them back another billion and 100 million kuna on the basis of the Law of Conversion, which was unanimously passed here, but other than the parliamentary representatives who unanimously passed the law, I must also mention Minister Lalovac, who managed to get to everyone with his courage that this law must be passed. The Franak Association, which has done so much for Croatian citizens, spent about 200 thousand kuna on the budget in 6 years. So the efficiency of the Franak Association in relation to budget spending is huge, all other money comes from membership fees and donations. So Franak is an example of how volunteer work can be done a lot. At this moment, the Franak Association has only one employee and that person who runs the office in Zagreb. So one employee has to have, but no more. I just wanted to say that the cost of the association doesn't have to be great for the associations to be effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32871	I thank my esteemed colleague Alexic for his replica. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32872	Thank you very much. Mr. Simic, in your discussion, you mentioned two things that moved me to replicate. First of all, you set out to list how many associations there are and you continue, unfortunately, this wrong HDZ policy that goes to make civil society weak in Croatia. We saw the statements of Foreign Minister Ilčić who wanted this money mentioned for the development of civil society, as if we do not need associations and civil society in Croatia. Unfortunately, it is also a policy implemented by the former HDZ and MOST government, and it seems that given Mr Stier and Mr Ilcic's activities, Plenkovic's government continues as well. That's why I would like to see you on behalf of the Cubans of the HDZ you're reading about whether and in your debate I've figured it out in a good way that you don't support civil society and that you think it's the money that's been thrown away by those billions and a couple of hundred million kunas that are invested in the civil sector in the Republic of Croatia or the opposite of Mr. Ilcic and Mr. Stier, you think you should continue to support civil society. And I think that Croatia has made one step and made a good model of supporting civil society, and that this is how it should continue and support the appeal of those associations that rebelled last year against former Hasanbegovic and HDZ, who announced exactly what Ilcic is now doing. What's also my point in this replica, I'm sorry, you've also talked about companies and crafts that haven't yet welcomed this change that was announced in the fifth month, tell us when it will be and tell us why you hitched off the MOST reforms in the last government that Mr Panenic here is crying out in front of the Croatian public and saying he failed to do something, probably thinking why HDZ didn't give it to him last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32873	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for the replica. The answer to the esteemed colleague Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32874	Dear colleague Maras, I thank you for your replica. But in the replica, you asked a few questions, and if I forget to answer them, do not take me as evil. On the contrary, associations and civil society in the Republic of Croatia are extremely important to me and my party. We appreciate their work and their existence and I don't see any problem in these billions and 14 million kunas, which was allocated in 2014 for associations if these funds would end up in associations that are doing activities that are registered for the benefit of citizens, for the benefit of members of the association but also some general interest, such as the Franak Association, which we heard from the previous presentation of Mr. Honorable colleague Alexić. As to why we're going to introduce it to associations first? So because I also stated in the statement that associations have legal jobs, these are legal transactions that do not commit them to some large financial giving and cannot cause any major financial damage for them. There are many reasons, however, but there is much simpler organisational structure, so association, management systems and everything else. And as for the MOST reform, so please just tell me which law of the proposed MOST law did not come into the parliamentary procedure and which was proposed that we did not discuss here and we are just discussing and we have some other laws that will come up in the near future. And I really don't see any reason for such an important concern and such a riot in your ranks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32875	I thank my esteemed colleague Simic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Representative Club, distinguished colleague Mladen Madjer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32876	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Association Act, we're dealing with the Bill on Mark Change, whether or not the mark should be, whether or not the mark should be. I mean, I don't see that it's a major reform, as far as the organizations themselves are concerned, because we have a lot of major problems about associations and I primarily think about associations in rural areas. And we forget that the associations in rural areas of our CUDs, the association of women who receive small funds is, for example, I come from a municipality where I get five to ten thousand kuna. And then when we remember by this law that they have to bring in all the papers that this law requires, I think they're big problems. Do we still go to the abolition of these associations and without those associations that extend cultural heritage and maintain and the village and maintain rural areas, I think we must first address this law and regulation that is not good for the associations in rural areas. Whether it's going to need a stamp, what he looks like, whether he's round, whether he's round, whether he's oval, I think it's less important. While those who try to survive in all ways, it means preserving cultural heritage and dealing primarily with volunteering, we must also think of how they obtain funds for this documentation. On the other hand, and about the very establishment of associations, we have the possibility that, unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, paedophiles will establish an association that deals with the prevention and protection of children from sexual violence. No matter how many years you've been in prison because you sexually harassed your children, the law doesn't prevent you from serving that sentence, enabling you to set up an association that will protect children from sexual violence. I think it's the same big problem that needs to be considered, not the brand he's going to be. The regulation, the problem of the Association Act, first we have Article 22, paragraph 4. Laws and Article 5 19 Regulations where the register of associations and registers of foreign associations are central electronic databases run by competent offices. They are run by state administrations in the counties, unique to all associations, i.e. foreign associations in the Republic of Croatia. The registry is not up-to-date. For example. In the register they are like active leaders of associations that do not exist at all. The database for associations is incomplete and unresponsive to the real state. A registration in the register of associations is a mandatory criterion prescribed in Article 5 of the Regulation so that all associations may even apply for a grant tender. There is inconsistency because the register of associations under the Law on the Electronic Database and, therefore, in accordance with Article 19 of the Association, the notifier should not provide that evidence in paper form and the information on the electronic register of associations is incorrect and often the paper extract from the register of associations differs from that available on the Internet. Article 5 of the Regulation: ‘The beneficiary of the financing must meet the obligations of payment of contributions to pension and health insurance and tax payments, and of other contributions to the national budget and budgets of the units of local self-government and against the beneficiary of the financing, or of the person authorised to represent the association and programme manager or project manager, shall not be subject to criminal proceedings and shall not be legally convicted of breach of the provisions of Article 48 of this Regulation. It means that every application for a tender requires a confirmation by the tax administration of the lack of debt to the budget and a conviction of impunity. Okay, first of all, we need to see if these organizations, which are primarily, are doing volunteer work, whether they're ready for any competition that the local self-government unit will call and whether they have time to take out these certain papers prescribed by law. It is clear that all the funds spent by associations must be taken into account, clearly that they have, we all know that they have their own congregations each year, where they report units of local self-government, or the head of the municipality of spent funds. So the question is, are all those who volunteer to do their work in certain associations able to comply with this regulation. What I mentioned was that there is still a campaign to end and reduce these small associations. Paragraph 5 also provides that a member of the Assessment Committee may receive an adequate remuneration for his professional work in accordance with the decision of the Head of Financial Assets or Head of the Municipality. It means that members of the commission should be professional in the area for which an invitation to tender for the financing of the association is being opened, and it would be desirable to receive compensation from their work. Clearly, in small areas, it is impossible to find such individuals, and as far as compensation is concerned, it is absolutely impossible for them to receive compensation in these poor units of local self-government. I believe that the application of the provisions of the current Law on Associations and Regulations and criteria, criteria and procedures of funding and the negotiation of programmes and projects of interest to the general good implemented by the associations almost prevents the functioning of small associations financed from the budget of the unit of local self-government. In fact, by noting that such small associations simply do not have the human resources or the material capacity to implement all the requirements laid down by this legislation before them. The conditions which, under the regulations, must be met by associations in order to obtain funds from the municipal budget are very bad for small associations where members of volunteers working on a voluntary basis and contribute to the cultural development of society. What are we looking for? We believe that such a regulation is not aimed at facilitating the work of the association and greater transparency of the spending of public funds, but at shutting down most small associations. I also believe that associations are in this form in which today there are also ways in which the regulation of social life is financed, the preservation of the traditional value of Croatian people and the preservation of cultural heritage. This is especially true in small rural areas. With the application of these regulations, there will be the abolition of small associations through which citizens meet their social and cultural needs, i.e. the disseminating of Croatian society, which we believe was unfortunately the aim of adopting such a regulation. It means that we need to make sure that this regulation is abolished in order to allow, however, in small areas that from the Association of Women of Cultural and Artistic Society, from sports associations, from the Association of Hunters who are primarily volunteers can live on and that they can use the funds as much as possible from local self-government units. And I believe that the way of this regulation is not suitable for small environments and associations that are smaller financial incomes than large associations. So I'm suggesting that the law be distinguished from funding by a certain number of funds received by associations, whether it's 50 to 100 thousand kuna or that association, as far as we've heard, that according to the associations, it was a billion and a few kunas. It means that they have some associations that receive large funds, and I think there should be a distinction from associations that are created amateurally and receive little funds towards those associations that clearly use a lot of resources from both the state budget and the budget of units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32877	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mladen Mader, for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Madjer, in your debate, although it was a little more intense than this, exactly what the law has changed has touched exactly what is important and what unfortunately is being carried out by certain forces in the Croatian government led by Ilčić, which is that they want to shut down and choke the civil sector, means a civil society association that, as you said, is very helpful and can help both locally and in local self-government units, and should be strengthened, it should enable people to team up, to fight for their rights, for example, as Franak fought, what anti-fascistsists fight, what women fight for. Here we saw a night march in the center of Zagreb yesterday. So we need to enable civil society to fight for what they think it is and what our society is going to be better than yesterday. The exact opposite of what they advocate unfortunately for today in the Croatian government. And watch the paradox. Where they should be most visible, where Miro Kovac did his job yesterday as foreign minister to the world, according to Europe, where I should say show these European values. We're putting a man who wants to end civil society and stop Mr. Ilcic's civil society associations. Well, isn't that a paradox? So why are we doing this? Which is why we want only one association, one party and one party of HDZ to remain in Croatia in Croatia. I guess that's the only goal of this action, unfortunately, that we have in Croatia today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32879	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Young Madyer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32880	Yes, colleague Maras, I agree with you that perhaps this wasn't a particular subject with this change just the change in stamps. But I wanted to warn those problems especially in rural, small environments, that it will really happen that with the difficult life in rural areas and which allow in rural areas some socialization and the spread of cultural heritage that, unfortunately, the regulation that exists will come to the end of these associations will no longer be able to volunteers and no one will be able to accept at all to be president is clearly going to report a criminal application, no one will want to manage and be president of these associations and there will be the abolition of associations in rural areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32881	I thank my esteemed colleague, Madero, for his reply to the replica. Next replica, distinguished counterpart Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32882	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with you that this isn't some kind of big reform measure, I'd say it's not a reform measure at all. One part of this law, which is amended to settle the issue of stamping, opens the possibility, as Parliamentarian Josip Djakic said, and for possible embezzlements or any murky actions, or which will verify certain documents with this law for the time being, is not regulated. We all kind of advocate civil society associations, we see that Mr. Maras is ahead of us, but in that way we would have to sort of make it easier for these associations to work. Today, I don't know anyone mentioned one association that gets 500, 600 thousand kuna from the budget, today the same documentation of associations that apply I don't know about 500, 600 kuna, a thousand kunas must prepare the same documentation as that association that applies to 500, 600 or million kuna. In that part, it would be a reform move of this law if it would enable them to function more easily and better. And finally, as soon as you touch the associations, let's remember former Minister Hasanbegovic who wanted to sort of regulate various associations, and some to reduce funds in his opinion or his team to those organizations that work and against the interests of the Republic of Croatia is then the whole of Croatia on its feet is trying to talk in a transparent manner about a billion and some million kunas being spent on associations. But I also think that through legislation we should resolve and just check the work of certain associations and whether they really work, some of them against the interest of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32883	I thank my esteemed colleague Milinovic. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32884	That I fully agree with you, colleague Milinovic, and that's what I said in the statement that it should be distinguished. A nemre association with 500 thousand kuna that has incomes and associations with 5 thousand kunas minimum in certain local environments that have the same and have to meet the same conditions and have to bring the same papers and I really don't think that's right. But clearly there must always be control over these 5,000 kunas, but I think the Ministry of Administration would still have to work out that part to keep the undead the same conditions for those with 500 thousand kuna and for those who use 5,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32885	I thank my esteemed colleague, Madero, for his reply. The next call came from a esteemed colleague, Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32886	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Hungarian or Mader. Well, I'd just remind myself, I'm listening to all these discussions and I think my replica is as much as Mr. Mader and all the others who came forward today for the debate and for those who are replicating, and on the trail is what he said I mean the distinguished representative Kristic. I would like to remind you that today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Associations, which states Article 1 of the Law on Associations of NN and, in Article 13(3), paragraph 3 is deleted, so far subparagraphs 4 to 15 shall become subheadings 3 to 14 and Article 2 of this Act shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the NN. It's almost nothing else. Our Rules of Procedure state the reasons for the forwarding of the restrictive measures in Article 238(1), the MP shall not speak of a subject which is not subject to discussion during the hearing. We are having discussions today on everything about the law itself above all about the measure of the law, but we have touched both the CNS and the civil society and the certificate set out on SOA, and I don't know what everything is, and at least we are talking about these two articles because these changes of the law are really shocking and if we were to stick to how Mr Kristic said it would have ended today without any debate and would have gone towards other points of the agenda. So I appeal if there is a need, and certainly there is, and I agree with most of what Mr. Mader said, that there is a need for amendments to the Law on Associations to do so in other ways, and not to use these amendments on two articles for discussion that we are going to spend today as much as I see it almost all day. Here's nothing, I've easily replicated it to my colleague from Podravina, Mr. Madjer, but my replica refers to most of the great others who discuss these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32887	I thank my esteemed colleague, Damir Felak, for the replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32888	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 of my colleague, Felak, was injured. I even signaled to you that he had injured the Rules of Procedure because he said he was making an appeal, not a replica. So there is no form of appeal when the MPs are called, so he can't appeal but he can replicate, but he's even more dangerous than he invited you, and I know that you're going to be calling it "distant" because you're a man of tolerance, to suppress the debate in this House, and not to be debated at all in this House. So my colleague Felak said I should finish the hearing in two, three minutes. Why should we even discuss it? He says if this is being discussed, there's no need to discuss it at all. So I ask you to warn your colleague, Felak, first that he cannot appeal, secondly that he cannot stop the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32889	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for this objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure which I do not think stands. Therefore, a respected colleague, Felak, among other things, appealed to MPs to limit their discussion to the content of the amendments to the law rather than to the wider area. But in democracy, thank God, everyone can say what they want if they haven't broken the basic laws, the rules and the norms. The Croatian Parliament is also here, and we Parliaments are elected by the people, so we have the right to talk about this subject under those rules and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which restricts it. And at that point, if someone goes off topic, then don't worry too much, I'll warn him so you're free to do your job and I'll do mine. And don't worry about it. Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed colleague of the Young Madier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32890	Thank you. Dear colleague Damir Felak, yes, the truth is that it's a bill of law, just a change of the seal law. And that's why I warned that it's funny that we have so many problems in associations about funding associations and it comes as a major reform in financing associations, it's a change of seals. And it doesn't suck so much that they've been reported today for the debate, certainly it's not a debate about the change of stamps that he'll look like, the long, round, the oval, but the problems in financing associations. And that's why we wanted to point out the problems and the bad regulation of the Association Finance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32891	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Madero. The next call came a distinguished colleague, Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32892	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you mentioned the case of a person convicted of child abuse, it is and should then complete that information and give actually accurate information because you gave incomplete information which is not correct until the end, although it is also referred to the Association Act. So this is about Zdenko Simunovski, who was sentenced to 10 years in prison for committing the most serious acts of sexual abuse over two girls. After leaving prison, he founded an association after a year because then the Law on Associations enabled him to do so. However, you did not say the following information, then the Ombudsman responded immediately and the directorate of the police, the Ministry of Administration, the Office for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the State Attorney's Office in Osijek were informed. So it was said that they would act immediately and proceed. What is important is to say that the legal ban on the employment of perpetrators of criminal offences on the harm of children applies only to the staff of institutions, not to civil society. And I must remind you, therefore, that one of the amendments to the law that HDZ will refer to in the procedure among other things, in that package of amendments announced from this pay phone on behalf of the HDZ Club, as regards sexual abuse of children, will also be a ban on working with children who are being prosecuted for cases of sexual abuse. This is also necessary because it is in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Republic of Croatia is obliged to comply with its legislative framework because it is a signator of that Convention and that provision should then also apply to the new Law on Associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32893	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic for the replica. And the answer to my distinguished colleague, Mader, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32894	I thank and thank my colleague for the supplement of this, and I agree with that and I support this that there will be changes to the regulation of the law and I fully support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32895	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Madero. The next call came from a distinguished colleague, Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32896	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Mader, therefore you have extended this topic safely and, I even think it is good and I agree with you in this section about associations in rural areas, in municipalities because, cities, because anyone who has been president of some of the organizations that function on a voluntary basis knows how much trouble it is, in fact, responsibility. On the other hand, we're talking about one segment of this reform that goes into change, actually, about removing the seal as something that allows the document to be authentic. So the seal confirms the authenticity of the document. I don't know if you saw that silly video on YouTube when that worker was reading the employee's announcement and this one behind comes in and says where the seal is. So the seal confirms something and more Croatia-Ireland, and I think Greece still has that form. Today we have an electronic signature, we have all that technology that's modern. However, I disagree with you, there is no need to banalise it. You know because if you're in charge of 50 kuna, 100 kuna or 500 thousand kuna, you're in for the same thing. You answer to the law. And wouldn't this one at the end, this case, the daily affair wouldn't be that there would be any other insurance or guarantee measures, not just by signing, you know what the best guarantee system is? This is our countryman, Croatia, Ivan Vučetic, introduced in 1891 into crime. Those are your fingerprints, your finger, so when you put that on then you know that, then you'd know if it was Soucha or someone else planted the finger there. So there are biometric ways to prove, verify, and that's why you don't need to banalise it. It's a very important thing, and I think that the future, all the technologies we have available today, I can replace the seal, and here it is, in this case it's associations, so sometimes it starts somewhere. That's what I wanted to mention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32897	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here we go to biometrics. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32898	Thank you, Vice President. Perhaps, I did not stress, however, it is necessary for every kuna that has been spent or from a local or state budget that has to be held accountable. I just wanted to point out that it's not the same documentation that needs to be drawn from a particular society that uses 5,000 kunas is not the same as that used by 500 thousand kunas. But for justice and 5 kuna and 500 thousand kuna, they must be justified and documents must be submitted to justify these funds. I merely noted that it is necessary to simplify obtaining paper and consent is not the same as 5 thousand and 50 in obtaining certain documents. And we now have one law on obtaining documents that can be used either from the local budget or from the regional or from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32899	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Madero. And the last replica after this debate is distinguished colleague Marko Vedligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32900	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Mader, here we are safely off topic but which is why I think it's important that we discuss it anyway. You've actually looked back on the problem of small associations in smaller environments that every single change went to good or bad senses, it certainly felt. And believe that thousands of these people today in their small, local environments probably look, listen, don't expect a change here. But probably somewhere in the future they listen to us and want to hear what we have to say. Small associations in small communities are one soul of one place. I guess it's clear to all of us that apart from the job as the first and most important things that are important to man to provide municipal infrastructure, of course. After that, it must be sports, culture, free activities. That's the only way a man can be a social being, and that's what we all are. If that's not gonna happen, he's actually gonna move out. Let's look at it as part of a policy that will leave people in smaller environments, and I guess it's in everyone's interest. Of course transparency in the allocation of budget funds definitely is, but we definitely went too far as bureaucraticity is concerned. And there's something to be done here. We as a local unit, the local government of the state is obliged to control it according to the law. So I think it's the same for us that together with the state and local units, unfortunately, they have less and less resources. Local units have been back ten years losing their resources, transparency costs them. Transparency at each level costs, and especially in smaller local units that unfortunately do not have human resources that according to the law all these things that are needed to be followed. So, I support you in this section certainly to make simple procedures and actually allow our associations to breathe, because they, they need to appreciate their work and the contribution they make to our community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32901	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague. The answer, dear colleague Mader, is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32902	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Yes, I agree with that, and I think we had to go to our locals in my municipality, but we also had to warn all over Croatia about these things that happen about the financing of associations. Because all those watching this Parliament certainly won't be if we didn't mention it would be a lot of criticism, because they really have big problems with funding in the local environments. I think Mr. Bulj or Mr. Maro Kristic said about football clubs. Of course, the question is whether they are needed in a league of judges, three judges, delegates. But it's a problem to solve the same, because I think the financing of associations must be transparent, I agree with that, but the simplification of the documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32903	I thank my colleague Madero for his reply to the replica. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Representatives Club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32904	Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs and distinguished secretary of state, dear assistant. The Law on Associations was passed in 2014 after a very wide and long content and interesting public debate. And I took part in this, in a debate in both readings as a proposing then on behalf of the government. And I remember that the debate on the Association Law took most of the time to sports associations. I think I'm one of the first to mention it today, so it's obvious that some of the priorities on the work of the associations have changed which is not bad. But I don't think the problems that were then in that sense are gone. Secondly, here are a few years after the law was passed, and after two more governments changed, we received a proposal to amend one article, one paragraph of the Law on Associations in First Reading, which tells me that the law passed that first test. So, if it didn't require major changes, at least not those that would require such a relatively quick debate. I do not agree with those who talk about the extensive interpretation of the Rules of Procedure when we are having a broad discussion because the article of the law which speaks of the Statute is being amended and the Statute lists everything. Therefore, we can really talk about everything to be even in this narrow subject. As for the very text of the law of one article, we see nothing disputed about it being passed. The SDP Club will vote in favour of this proposal, and in order to draw attention to another situation concerning the association that was well known to the public, we have proposed to the Croatian Parliament that it also draw a conclusion which is in charge of the Ministry of Administration that within 30 days, as regards the application of Article 13. The statutes of the day of adoption. Therefore, it resolves the appeal of the Association of Volunteers of the HOS of Varazdin for a solution to the Regulation of the State Administration in the Varazdin County, and as regards the use of the greeting "for the House ready" in the statute of association. I say it is indeed the application of this article of the law, Article 13 of the Law, and we call on representatives in the Croatian Parliament to encourage, to support this proposal of conclusion and thus encourage the Ministry of Administration to resolve this case, not to be too burdened with various committees that could affect future solutions to these problems because they must act on current and not future solutions which I am sure will be even better than today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32905	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauku, for the debate. We have replicas. Dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32906	Thank you, Vice President. I've been listening very carefully to this exhibit. I wonder when we'll be dealing with legal, critical matters, not peripheral issues, for example. We all agree that corruption is a cancer of Croatian society and that a Croatian citizen loses confidence in the legal system. There are two parallel systems, one for farmers, and one for those who keep from that former political perverse nobility of political... school etc. I hold in my hand here a strategy that is for Mr. Bauka the issue, the strategy to curb corruption in Croatia. What can we expect when the document was signed by a man suspected of robbing a state-owned company? And when we're going to settle this red tape, socialist bureaucracy is the tails of the former system, as many administrations as possible, 64 weeks for a building permit, etc., everyone gets the money, the black funds as they do in the communist party. And what about transparency associations? Does anyone in this House know how much money they got that Trojan horse of NGOs documents, detectives, etc. who are destroying the Croatian society that was paid from New York because they published in their annual expenditures, revenues, etc. What about the conflict of interest? We're talking about the seal. What seal? You have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, someone gives their brother 450 thousand kunas, we shut up, and we're closing cafes for 10 kuna. Question for Mr. Bauk, when will the rule of law be established? You were 20 years old. There's corruption the biggest problem. This is why Croatia Guatemala is on the Sava, we are dealing with a peripheral issue, ha "For Home Ready" with Hos's, etc. While some princes have millions of dollars on bank accounts outside. So who are those heads? If you have the courage to publish a list of management loans and see who those heads were and where they were in the party, regardless of the party and party.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32907	Your time is up. I thank you for your replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32908	The questions you asked are legitimate, but I'm not sure I'm the right address for which you should have asked those questions. What I can say and as regards the transparency of the work of the associations is the Law on the Accounting of Non-profit Organisations and the Law on Associations during 2014 and 2015, which has laid down in its provisions the obligation of greater transparency and financial reports, and the report of the Office for Associations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on how much the associations from the state budget and from the local budget are financed. Now, the criteria of the allocation especially from the local budget could indeed be devoted to a whole debate, but as we have local elections coming, I'm not sure that this debate would be devoid of political and other issues, and then we can do better after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32909	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS-HSU Representatives, dear colleague of the Goddess Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32910	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable secretary of state with a deputy, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have already heard that these are small changes in the Law on Associations, but we have all allowed ourselves that freedom to talk and a little wider except for the amendments to these two articles. However, this article should also tell associations not to call on extraordinary congregations to amend the statutes, which should be amended rather than to do so next year in their regular congregations, given that this is a small change, but that is certainly a fine one, because all that contributes to the discharge in some part, and that is the use of the seals, I consider it to be commendable. We had an old Law on Associations which was from 2001 which did not prescribe much, and therefore started to consult with interested public where there were various opinions, but no one was fully satisfied with it. For the purpose of one improvement, a new Law on Associations was adopted in 2014 which stipulates that all associations must be entered in the register of associations or to obtain that RNA number according to which they are led and prescribed the way in which the accounting of associations is conducted. This was a major burden especially for small associations that were established after 2009. They had to enter the dual accounting system and run double accounting. Those who were previously founded should not have done so, but all newly established ones should continue to run double accounting for which, as a rule, I don't know how many associations have the capacity but also have to pay these jobs with accounting services, and below 200 kuna I think that nobody, it's minimum minimum for what's being run. So that's a pretty big problem, and maybe we should see about it and find some compromise that anyone can run simple accounting, which is double because now it's in the law that double-needs to run one who has a property or traffic of 230 thousand kuna a year, and the smaller ones have to run double accounting three years after they're founded, and then they can choose. Another major problem is what we were talking about the other day, which is the bank's fees or the paying of these associations. When you look at how many associations have turnover or how much income they have and when 10% of their receipts go to the bank's fees, then it's really worth thinking about. Because keeping an account of every payment if it was 15 kuna because if it goes to the post office he has to raise money because the Double Accounting Act says he has to go to the cash register, the cash has to be paid out of the register. So I think there should be a rulebook to solve some other things that are in accordance with the Association Act. Why are we all sensitive to these associations and why we all talk far more than they bring these amendments to the law? Well, each of us is a member of some association that we're here, some of us are far beyond. Associations are also to strengthen civil society. Associations are also imagined in a way that we connect professionally, whether it's some humanitarian, whether it's sports, whether it's cultural artistic, but all associations are good because it's socializing and it's actually life-supporting, which a few colleagues have already said in smaller environments. And that's the only thing that gives life and some sense of being in that club, in that club, and everything. They probably all met up with the problem of gathering the OIB. So now I've recently been to an annual congregation when they read, these are regular members, these are supportive members. Now I'm asking, so what's the difference? They didn't want to give the OIB, they said they've been here for 30 years, and now we're asking them for something to give to the police and to anyone else or to the tax administration. I mean, a little funny, but we have a situation like that. Well, maybe some things are easier to adapt to. I am for transparency and every kuna must be known. I even agree with the fact that those huge 30 pages when a tender is opened for the allocation of funds to units of local self-government, the regionals to be met, a lot of places remain empty but there must be a need to know which programme is being given, which is also planned to justify afterwards. And I support that anyway. But I'm saying this is a really big problem. The other thing is associations carrying out economic activities. Because we know there are few of these associations, but there are also associations that carry out their economic activities. And they need to run double accounting and all this paperwork and it's totally fine. But I believe that, in front of us, there is an amendment to this law in a certain part not only of this rope which we, as a club of HNS and HSU, will support, and I expect this to be a broad debate, first of all, and counseling to see how this has proved since this law was applied since 2015, which I say is welcome because it has regulated many things that have not been and contributed to transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32911	Representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32912	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues that, just this double accounting that associations have to run for the first three years to prove that they can come in simply, should be the opposite of going simply first and then going into a double, there really is no decision at all. And hopefully we'll all work on it together. And this when you mentioned economic activity, I'm just going to tell you that I'm in my town where there are 130 organizations when the new law came out and when we had it, I think it was 1.4 when we were all supposed to report those carrying out economic activity. I voluntarily asked the IRS to enter the profit tax system as an association. 130 associations in that city exist and you can't tell me that none of them have economic activity and that none of them need to enter the profit tax system on their own. Those in the IRS didn't even know the form that would let me do it. I came five minutes before that deadline. So none of the 130 organizations reported it. That's what this is about. So we do not control at all these associations that, i.e. organisations, initiatives that are implemented through the legal form of associations. And not to mention what I just said, so the associations that millions are going through don't even control themselves, and we're killing these least they have, which their initiative wants to realize through this form of association, or non-profit organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32913	The answer to the replica of the representative goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32914	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members, obviously we agree on a lot of things because we know the situation and the problems and the part of the functioning of the associations and the part of the bookkeeping and that these people are meeting. I didn't say no, those who have economic activity but I still stand at the point of view that there are far fewer those who have economic activity. Maybe there's some hidden economic activity that then through donations and not, the members of the association give donations, we know it's present at football clubs, and then members that when they have a drink at the game to leave some fee as a donation to have a beer. Well, it couldn't even be conducted directly under some economic activity. And this is that changes are needed and that when we bring some things in that we need to see the implementing rules that need to follow them immediately and be familiar with all institutions, that's true. Because what you said about meeting, I'm not surprised at all, because it's not just a case of associations, there's a lot of other things that we're looking for first, and then the rules are written afterwards, and there's already some law in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32915	The HDS representative club, HSLS, HDSSB also requested participation in the debate. In their name, President Branko Hrg will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32916	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to speak a little bit differently on behalf of the club than we've discussed so far. So we won't support these amendments to the law, we'll be restrained. Because we just think that at this point in time, they're totally unnecessary, that they could have been at the very end of the year. What is more important, and what is important, we regret to say that the Law on Associations is not right and that it should be changed, that it is harmful for associations, especially for smaller associations. He was made in 2014 as a law that was supposed to tame some large associations and were killed by the small. They were suffering, and today we are threatened by the actual shutting down of certain small associations that were spoken of here by some colleagues in the debates. And we keep our eyes closed and now we're going to change one article, we're going to cancel the stamp, and we're going to save it. We're really gonna save it. How are we gonna save it? So the statutes that were amended and adapted to the law a year ago are re-changed and adapted to the law. So it's all over again. And it's going to be a hell of a lot of savings that's gonna happen, and we're going to be very helpful to the associations. They won't have to eat the press anymore, they'll just sign it. That's a hell of a help! This is the first reading, and I am only pleased in this bill that the first reading is even funny, and I must admit that it is an amendment to one article of the law, but I urge the promoter to take a serious look at the Law on Associations, to seriously consider and to make an analysis of what happened after the adoption of the Law on Associations in 2014 and its application, and to see if these were positive or negative effects from the field, from talking to people in associations, with smaller associations the effects are negative. That's what I was talking about a few days ago here looking for a break on behalf of the club to point out a problem that meets small associations on the ground. It would be good if one day in this assembly we could get laws that are not done in a way that is viewed from the perspective of only Zagreb, so little through the window of a few ministries, but to watch all of Croatia. There would probably be a lot more positive debates, there would be no demagogue debates in so many numbers, but they would be honest and support laws that would preserve certain activities in the Republic of Croatia. Associations are very, very important in our society and no one has any objection to them being framed in the real transparency of business, especially the use of budget money. But I'm really asking the question again here, do you really need those inches of patterns to get a couple hundred or a couple thousand kunas from some budget? Can't we get that out of the way? Can't we simplify that on one piece of paper the association can make such an application and report and see exactly what it's spent on, but to write hundreds of data that people pull their hair out because the big ones won't sign up anymore, we've got problems. That's what I'm asking from amending the law. And this is not acceptable to me for the reason that, in this way, by such a cosmetic change, we actually say as Mr. Bauk said just before that we support the 2014 law that he's good. He's not good, he's not good, and he's bad. And I really ask the Proposer to think again and really propose to this House the amendments to this law that will allow associations to act, which will encourage people to engage in associations, which will develop this system but in a way that supports those who are smaller, who are weaker to simplify, and that those who are larger are under a little more control and that in this way we basically take down this kind of cloud of some kind of doubt from all the associations. Because here all associations are put in the same basket, they're all guilty. Well, my people, let's think about it. We all come from our midst. What was said here is that we're all members of some associations. So are these people thieves? Are these people criminals who give their free time, who engage to preserve and organize something in the middle? These are people who need to be rewarded, who need to be given thank-you notes, not criminalized and kept saying them all the time are thieves, must be transparent, must know what they're doing, nothing can happen wrong anywhere. It can't happen wrong, it has to be transparent, but make it simple. So our club will be restrained from amending this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32917	Representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32918	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Hrg, I am, therefore, many times in establishing, or helping citizens with the establishment of associations precisely because of the articles in the Statute, so that we are correcting it, and it has often been because of the making of the seals. Because people don't know what kind of seal we have in stores, libraries where they're already buying it. Then they in the Statute describe what he looks like, then they come with that seal and it's not the same thing. However, what I am interested in is your answer and I would ask you to answer yes or no. Does this mean that you will be restrained from removing administrative barriers to the establishment of associations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32919	Reply to the replica MP Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32920	And I'm going to ask you respected colleagues if you're aware of how many government officials will be working on amendments to the Statute and reviewing those statutes when it comes to this. Are you aware of that? So there's going to be a lot of work. No, I'm not against administrative obstacles being lifted, let them be lifted. And I'm not against the press being abolished, so we passed the law. But I'm basically against going on just such a cosmetic change right now. We're at the beginning of the year. Here, a colleague earlier said that it was not necessary to force people now to call on extraordinary congregations and ask for amendments to the statutes and then go back to regular ones, to go regular ones. So this wasn't necessary for me right now. It could have been over the year anytime, but there should be a change of law in the right sense of the word. An amendment to the law that will allow associations to act, not kill them. And the law that's in effect with or without this kills the work of smaller associations especially here, my colleague Bulj looks at me, especially in rural areas, especially in rural areas definitely. So I'm not against removing the barrier, absolutely. I'm not against transparency absolutely, and for God's sakes, let's simplify things, change that regulation crazy, do some things that will make it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32921	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32922	A colleague of Hrg, that associations are in undeveloped areas in a much more unfavourable position and are much more influenced when at the state level in terms of criteria that are very important in allocating funds to associations under political paws. There are associations that do excellent work, but do not want to come to local self-government under political paws but want to come and do their job what was the role of the association was ecological, any humanitarian association, any other associations want to do their job, so who can be the first problem that happens in local self-government, and you can be witnesses. Surely, the numerous associations that approach the leadership of local self-government have been generously funded and are crucially the only criteria, could now be listed on their local self-government. And there are those who do their jobs in their own time and really for the development of that civil society in these small areas that are forgotten by the central state and regional self-government are simply left to themselves and their abilities, that's the first thing. And the other thing is very important, it's respect for the law. We brought these associations to respect the law, these small associations which are essentially the only driver of civil society development through sport, either through any other activity, and basically when we have a HNS to which we have a tribune for about five years, after two, three, four years, the Sports Office sends a memo that they have to respect the law. So we're in one position where these people who want to do their work, that is. The development of civil society in its area, on any basis, has led to an unfair position because they are not under political rule. A handful of political leaders who want political... these associations. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32923	Thank you. Reply to the replica MP Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32924	My colleague Bulj, I'm not saying that such situations and things you're talking about in Croatia are probably not there. I speak from the perspective of my city and knowledge of the situation throughout Croatia quite well. So, in most cases, the associations, except for some minor exceptions, have worked and so far by law, but my proposal here are the representatives of the ministry, let's make a questionnaire, send it to all associations in Croatia, small associations, not large associations, let's divide it, categorize it, let's send a questionnaire to what people think about the law and apply this law and we'll be easy to discuss, we'll get the answer easy to change the law then. It is only a matter of whether we want to develop the sector of these associations especially when we talk about this part of which I absolutely agree with you that we should preserve life in all areas of Croatia, when we talk about this rural part or talk about large associations, to see what the difference is. And I assure you that a large number of these small associations, or the largest number, will say that this law is not right and that it is complicated for them to do harm and not allow for work. There won't be any local self-governments, now they won't answer because they say they just don't want to be exhausted enough to get a few thousand kunas they'd rather stop working. Here it is from the field echo of this law, and that's why it needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32925	Representative Tomislav Klaric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32926	My dear colleague Hrg, in the introduction of your presentation, you said that these ridiculous changes were made and that you would not support them. Here, in the light of the law, it states what the intention of these changes is, therefore, rationalising business, reducing administrative burdens, etc. And now look around, let's all look in front of ourselves at these benches that we're sitting on right now, how much paper there is and I don't deny the good will and intent of whoever put this part of the seal into the law and it went only with that change. I don't deny the good intentions or the one that started getting these good smart machines that we got on the table where we can look at the cards, where we can Google, read the newspaper, and on which for example we can't write something in the word that might be useful to us or use it outside of this building, so that we still find it interesting here. But back to these associations, something where you're wrong when you're talking, I'm wrong, and I'm often wrong, and we all make mistakes when we talk about financing associations. Once and for all, we must forget that part of the association's funding as such. So units of local self-government, and that happens to all of us at the moment that we've been dealing with it for years in the subconscious of people, creates that we finance cities and municipalities and even the state of some kind of association. The meaning of financing these associations, I am firmly convinced of it, and in past amendments to the law I have made even more convinced there should be funding for these associations' programmes. So what these associations are dealing with, what these associations will accomplish, what that unit of local self-government and the head of the association will sign when it pays the association's bill that it will also realize. Because often in the field, we get associations. For me in the past 12 years how much I managed the local self-government unit with nine associations we came to 63 and all thought that the city was funding them. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]] The city can only finance their activities. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32927	Thank you. Time's up. Reply to the replica MP Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32928	Thank you very much. Well, we understand each other very well, and you're right. So when I saw on the agenda the amendment of the Association Act, I cheered. I thought it was on the trail of what I was recently talking about with a lot of people that we're going to change a law that's definitely harmful to the association. Unfortunately, when I opened and saw that it was a change of one article, technically nature that there was nothing else and that we were going into two readings, then I asked myself a question, my dear God, how much a change of this law would cost Croatian citizens only if we looked at how much time we Parliamentarians discussed it and how much paper was drawn, how much time was spent. And that's why I said we'd be abstentions, so not because we're not in favour of lifting the stamp, we are in favour of abolishing it, but we're not in favour of such an amendment of the law that basically carries nothing of particular importance and new to associations. And what you said, absolutely yes. Programs need to be funded, but this funding program can also be used to make it easier to say, in a simple way, in a form for smaller associations, and not that we have to fill out such rebel paper. That's the problem, that's what people disagree with, what they fight against. I don't want to talk about the booming associations. Clearly, the law is such that you can practically two, three people, three, how many, or five people can now make an association, practically one house, one family make an association, show up, come up, look for funds, report to programs, and that's it. So these are the things that need to be changed in law. And then we're going to have safer and better work and it's not going to wake up like that, and it's not going to do one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32929	A representative of Ljubica Lukačić, married a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32930	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Hrg, you did well in your presentation to point out that the law is not very good, this last one that was passed. I will briefly mention examples of persons with disabilities who do not know where to go sooner, whether they would solve problems relating to applying to tenders because the funds of others do not have, therefore there is no systematic financing or bookkeeping, etc. The Associations of Persons with Disabilities, you are probably also familiar with the fact that, as far as I know, in a close cooperation with the Association in Križevci, they are in some way extremely revolving by having to work and a bill that could be systematically funded and I believe that they will very quickly refer it to the Ministry. I think it would be extremely useful and important, given that the programmes cannot continue to meet what they need. Associations of people with disabilities must have both the big ones and the small ones, at least one to two employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32931	Thank you. Reply to the replica MP Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32932	Thank you, dear colleague Lukačić, yes, we are well aware of the work of the Association of Persons with Disabilities and thank you for mentioning the Association of Persons with Disabilities in Križevci, who works independently, who employs about 29 people through various programs and reporting for competitions because there is no system that would solve these things permanently that are absolutely necessary. And that's just another piece of evidence that we have to do more thoroughly to amend this Association Act and that simple associations have to be classified and that it has to be categorized, not all of them in the same basket. And then we have a problem. And that's why this is happening. And that's why I'm repeating, so I repeat that I'm proposing to the Resoring Ministry to make a polling questionnaire and to do a survey among the associations to hear what they think of the applicable law. I am convinced that the percentage of those who say that the law is bad, that it makes their work impossible will be huge. We, too, must have the goal of making a law that will enable the society to act and develop, that part of society, and not the law that will make it impossible. That's the point of the whole story. So that's why I said, "not for any other reason, "but for the sake that I'm not for these changes to the laws that bear nothing important and significantly better for the associations." We want to make it easier for people to act, so that they can organize themselves better, that they can no longer, not deal with bureaucracy, we all choose, everything. And now we bureaucratize to the fundamental parts, and this part where people voluntarily engage and voluntarily give their time. Well, for God's sakes, let's stop with that, we'll stop everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32933	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32934	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with you on the good part of your debate and on the support of the local community associations. What's important is to say that sometimes even this financial or functional aspect isn't as much a problem as it is when you create a general atmosphere that's something bad. For example, here I was yesterday on one, there's a one-night march for women's rights and I see that people just don't feel good about what the current government is pushing some back-up ideas that people are partially or much more affected by. And on that side, we should try to create a tolerance society and have our society rest on some European ideas. And that's what Croatia needs at this point, and that's what would mean a lot more for associations than to lift an example of the seal. That's something that's not bad, I'd say, a little easier business though we're working now, someone's saying that the same associations that have 5,000 traffic or 500, is not, so the border for double accounting is at 230 thousand etc. You said yourself you were a member of some associations. So maybe here's what association you're a member of to know, to see what experience you have and what problems you've personally faced here, and what I'd also ask you to do is you're the mayor of a city in the Republic of Croatia to treat associations in a similar way. Those who advocate certain quality things or who enrich the social life of the city or their own. For example, I've been hanging out down with one pensioner's association who couldn't get any support from you as mayor while some others were getting I'm not saying that others shouldn't get, but give everyone about the same chance. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32935	Thank you. Replica response, MP Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32936	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, this is wonderful to me that the two of us finally agree on something. So this law we're talking about is the 2014 law, the law passed by your government, your majority in the Parliament. I claim that this law is bad and that it is harmful for the development of that part of society, for the work of associations. I repeat, let the ministry do a survey among these associations, so maybe you'll be right. If the associations are going to say that he's good, that he makes it possible to develop the work of the associations I'll apologize to you publicly and tell you okay, I was wrong. I'm a member of many associations, not active because I don't have time for this, and it would be hard to list coffee, so I'll tell you exactly where I am. There's no problem. And as for the pensioners' association, do you mean that association when you came to the campaign with a colleague of yours and my compatriots when you sang while you drove people off the stage and you started singing there at the restaurant? Was that it? It's not a retirement organization. It's KUD Prigorje because after that, after that circus of yours you made, people felt very bad. There were e-mails, and I can give you what the president of the association wrote that wasn't there because you came unannounced, uninvited to that party and started playing singers there. Do you think about that union?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32937	I would pray without replication during replication and response to replication. Thank you. Mr. Maras, please refrain from commenting. Representative Arsen Bauk reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32938	I testified, and when people gathered when Maras sang, it wasn't exactly. So, Your Honor, Mr. Hrg, we are in a paradoxical situation. As a representative of the opposition party, I said I would support the government's proposal, and you, as a representative of the government's majority, will be restrained. That's true. But in the arguments you said you'd be restrained, I don't think you're right at all. So all that you have criticised is not at all covered by the Law on Associations but many other laws prescribe just this part and many other regulations prescribe this part of funding, etc. The Law on Associations has about to determine whether there was a quorum in the congregation, is the statute adopted in accordance with the law whether they chose that and that, is the seal right for them. And these other activities concern the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Regional Development and all those involved. But here's an idea that I could support you and the SDP club. For example, assets, assets and financing are referred to in Article 33. The Association Act, paragraph 33. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, on a proposal from its professional service responsible for associations, regulate the criteria, criteria and procedures of financing and contracting programmes and projects of interest to the general welfare of associations. So, it's not, it's the law just says that the government is doing it, so I'm offering you the support of the SDP Interpletion Club that you would eventually write on the government's work on this, and then we can discuss what you said. And if this was enough to convince you that you don't need to be restrained well, and if you're going to be restrained about this law, I invite you to vote at least for the SDP's conclusion proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32939	Thank you, dear colleague Bauk. You as a minister who at the time proposed a law normally that you must advocate that law. I also debated at the time of the law that the law was not right. And now I repeat it again today, I say it again, but deny me here's a way to conduct a survey among the associations, so we'll see. You mentioned a regulation on criteria, criteria and funding procedures and arrangements for programmes and projects of interest to the general good implemented by the Regulations. Well, that regulation is based on this law. This regulation is based on this law, so it is absolutely related to this law. I didn't quite understand you in that part. But why shouldn't I, so here I am, in fact, presenting on behalf of the club a protest against the law that you have passed, and that's why I won't vote for it, so I'm going to be abstention because I am saying and I'm saying that this law isn't right, and that these changes in principle don't change anything in that law because the promoter is actually confirming to you that your law is good. He's not good, I don't agree with that, and that's why I won't vote for him. And we'll talk about this another time when you suggest something, of course, we'll discuss it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32940	Representative Miro Bulj has applied individually for participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32941	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32942	Excuse me, Agent Miro Bulj, if you'll excuse me for a moment. The Secretary of State, Mr. Scissor, answered his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32943	I would like to thank Mr. President, Your Honor. Here's the answer for a few reasons. I'd just try to focus the debate and get it back on the scale, and the metric is next. This Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Associations shall drop three words from the law, three words: in the third Article of the Law which states that the Statute of the Association contains provisions on the appearance of the seal of the association. The rejection of those words shall not impose an obligation on the statutes of existing associations to comply with the provisions of this law. So I would really like the debate to run in the direction in which we properly and qualityly report and inform the public who is watching us, thousands of associations that exist and which, from the presentation of some MPs, might conclude that they necessarily have to call upon the assembly of associations, that they necessarily have to adapt to the provisions of the statutes which do not come from this law. Why isn't it coming out? Since it remains in force, paragraph 4 of that Article, which states that the statutes of the association may contain provisions on other matters of importance for the association and, in accordance with the assessment of the association, if the issue remains an issue of a description of the seal, it may retain it. Unless he thinks he didn't have to contain it. In fact, several MPs have pointed to insignificantness and in some ways without the importance of amending this law. When things are reregulated, when we live in a country where things are really detailed, not only about the activities of associations but about the functioning of life, the economy, etc. what this government has decided in some way to resist what it has decided to change by removing many administrative barriers, this is just a small matter. When things are reregulated, legislative interventions or the procedures for amending the laws of things must be readjusted. That's what this is all about. Associations shall be free of obligations to indicate in their statutes the appearance of the seal. Whether they will continue in legal and other traffic stamps use this law does not speak. The other thing is this law doesn't talk about funding associations. Indeed, the funding of associations is the matter of the government's regulation and not of this law, so that all the problems I am assuming are burdensome and in which this debate has shown that there is indeed some need for adaptation, relief, optimisation of the system of financing of associations is the matter of the regulation that is adopted under this law, which does not in any way prejudge the content or prejudge the mandatory content of such a regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32944	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32945	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Scissor. Don't think the MPs don't know what the measure of the law is and what is being discussed here, we're all aware of that. But be aware, Mr. Škarica, when you come with such a small thing as you said in the Assembly, and there are much bigger problems about associations that you don't solve, then the debate must be like this because unless you have solved 14 months of what the SDP Representatives Club is asking for, and that is the complaint of the Association of Volunteers of the Croatian Defence Forces of the City of Varazdin about moving a board containing the Ustasha greeting, then what are you surprised about? What do you wonder? So don't be surprised, or, for example, when you have in the Government of Ilcic to shut down civil society and civil scene in the Republic of Croatia at all? So what are we going to discuss? So that's why Mr. Scissor is watching thousands of associations this session and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and not because of that, whether the Most will remove the stamp or not. So what do you really think that someone is so cruelly interested in and that people live for it, in a moment when the Most will lift the trade mark for associations? No, they're looking at Mr. Scissor precisely because of these topics that you're hearing here today, which are a hundred times, a thousand times more important than the topics you're pushing on our agenda, and you're not able to solve the board issue for 14 months. Mr. Grmoja Bauk has not been Minister for 14 months, not 14 months Minister Bauk more Minister than Minister First Mrs. Alajbegovic, and then Minister Kovacic means don't speak... /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32946	Thank you. Time's up. Mr. Maras is out of time. Thank you. I'm very sorry you decided to look back on his comment. The reply to the State Secretary's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32947	Dear Representative, in no way did I wish to direct or modify the debate of the MPs in this House but merely pointed out the false interpretation of this legal intervention I heard, which is that the obligation to amend the statutes is prescribed. I just wanted to focus in this direction on the debate that it was not about commitment, but about the suspension of the obligation to fit the appearance of the seal into the statute of association. So it's not about the obligation to amend the statutes in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32948	Representative Branko Hrg is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32949	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. In fact, in this statement of yours, you confirmed what I did and I said that these amendments to the law don't make any sense, nothing really changes what you just said, and you said, you don't even need people or statutes to change. And then in the second part you mentioned the way the program was proposed, you mentioned the regulation, you said it wasn't about this law itself, it was about the government doing it. So now I'm taking the opportunity, since you are here, the representatives of the ministry, to ask you, are you seriously considering an amendment to that regulation that is definitely so complicated that it makes it impossible for associations to work? Can it be expected that by the end of the year when a new competition is to be launched to run for programmes according to various local and state institutions for the work of associations and programmes they implement, this Regulation will be amended? Will it be easier for associations to report to such competitions?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32950	The reply to the State Secretary's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32951	Your Honor, I thank you for your replica. I would like to say that I have not said one word, and I hope that this can be checked, characterised these changes as insignificant, but I have referred to such a categorization on your part not only by your own, but by more representatives. I think I've explained clearly enough in which direction these changes are going. As regards funding and the Government Regulation on the financing of the programmes and projects of the associations, it is in the power of the Government Office for Associations, not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32952	Representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32953	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, you explained that nicely. And I need to repeat it again because I see that there is a huge misunderstanding, so colleagues to Maras would just like to say that every two months they've been bringing in little things we wouldn't have anything to discuss, but unfortunately it didn't happen. And I need to explain once again that the information he gets from the field that this law will make it impossible for associations to work is simply incorrect. Because an association that exists and has its own statute that prescribes its appearance of the seal does not have to change its statute regarding the amendments to this Law. So here we are talking about new associations that are being set up and abolishing administrative barriers to new initiatives that are being implemented through associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32954	Representative Goran Dodig is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32955	I did, I was in doubt if he'd come forward at all, but Mr. Secretary of State still offered me your one word, one piece of information that we're hyper-normalized, and here's the thing that comes to mind, and that's true. And in that case, in that context, I also support that the seal is lifted. However, the whole debate has shown that this Parliament, and the public, is having a particularly serious problem with the association. Why is that, I don't know. Maybe it's under the influence and the fact that we have 52,000 associations and it costs a billion and 114 million kuna taxpayers. And that's why the messages are being sent. The seal needs to be lifted, there's no doubt about it. We agreed to be restrained because we're not satisfied with access to the whole problem, not that we're against the seal. I'm just going to read you what kind of picture is spreading and what we're sending to this policy that we're leading in this House and in this country. Pythagorean's lesson has 24 words, the Lord's Prayer 66 words, the Archimedes' principle of 67 words, Ten Commands 179 words and... Address Book 286 words, American Declaration of Independence a thousand and 300 words, the American Constitution with all 27 amendments and an addition of 7 thousand 818 words, and the European Union's regulation on the sale of cabbage 26 thousand 911 words. We have to avoid that, gentlemen, and I agree, this is one move that's on that trail, but it's not enough. Associations are really too important a problem to make That's what we've been talking about all day. [[The President's incursion: time. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32956	Representative Branimir Bunjac reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32957	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, in a purely technical sense, you're right. Today, three words of the Law on Associations are being changed, and basically, if we were to observe it from such a quantitative side of this today, we shouldn't even be discussing it. However, in a broader sense, this is about the Law on Associations, which, as we heard it, is very interested in the Croatian public. It is a significant social impact, it is a significant financial asset, and I believe that MPs can extend this topic within the framework of a given law to one measure. Because still, let these MPs at least try to do that. Here there are fewer than 1/4 of the total number of MPs, so unlike those 3/4 who do not have these MPs at least try to say something about what they will vote on tomorrow. I think it's a far smaller problem than what 3/4 MPs are going to vote tomorrow, and they don't even know what those three words you've mentioned are, nor have they tried to find out anything at all during this debate at all, hear, get involved in the debate, know something, or even care about the associations at all, or how much they spend the same way as they didn't even care who was running for the head of HRT, so they got in at 12 a.m. on Friday, voted up to half one and went home nicely. That's right, I wanted to look back at that statement of yours that actually MPs don't stick to the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32958	Representative Tomislav Zhagar is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32959	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State may have to say more vividly, many MPs here speak of the Law on Associations and stress the importance of this law and indeed it is extremely important. However, the intensity and all that you brought to us today on the benches of amending the law concerns something that has nothing to do with the Association Law. He is, the epicenter is all the way away. In the strategies of all governments so far trying to unload the economy, they sought to remove all those parafiscal burdens that were unnecessary. Among other things, the seal was detected to be completely unnecessary. But nothing will happen if all of us don't need to attack you who wanted to do something, not that you wanted to. Here's your proposal to do it in the Association Act. But other institutions have to do it. Here's just one thought like this. The country's payment law also does not require the use of the seal in carrying out payment transactions. However, as a central bank of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian National Bank shall, in its decision to construct an account in a bank with the request to open an account for regular business, provide the Bank with the application of the signature of the persons authorised to make available the funds on the account and the registration of the seal. So this is just one part. You could say the Association Act was on the sidelines of this wave. What perhaps I as an agent may resent, but not to you, Prime Minister, that he is here, to him first of all. So what's waiting for you? Well, it's not good that the Association Act was the first one to actually come with that change. But now you don't need to be attacked for coming with that change. And as far as the Association Act is concerned, if it needs to be changed, it'll be another story. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32960	Representative Miranda Mrsic has applied for individual participation in the debate. Representative Miro Bulj also reported for the debate, as the secretary of state applied in the meantime. Excuse me. Representative Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32961	This is a wake-up call from the president. Dear Secretary, here we have a single administrative barrier that will be able to facilitate the administrative work of its Statute. However, we also saw in this debate from my colleagues that they were calling for no solution to the problem of all, all the problems the associations have caused. So it would be certain that they were not exclusively concerned with the Minister of Administration during the respected Minister of the then Maras, that they were not dealing with only one issue, which is the division of people to whether Cyrillic plates are needed in Vukovar or not, and thus using these political moments to provide themselves with what political point on the blood of people who have given great pain in the Homeland War, and surely it is necessary to believe and change the laws because civil life is very important. I'm essentially repeating again what I've come up for, which is in more underdeveloped areas, in areas where the only thing that works is, and that means somewhat of this association that people are volunteering with very small amounts trying to change certain things in that community. However, of all associations, of the meanings of ecological associations, and of course we don't have ecological associations of examples, is other associations of the meaning of ecological associations, and of course we don't have ecological associations of examples, are we other associations? But we have individuals who, without any means of action, volunteer activists are trying to contribute to the development of civil society on all issues. Especially when I'm talking about associations is the key moment where everyone talks, and basically doesn't connect to the Ministry of Administration, and that's this financial aspect and that's the Ministry of Finance. A colleague of Hrg's pointed out there is the Ministry of Finance, but it is also good to talk about it in Parliament and point to these problems. So let's say we have bookkeeping in cities and local self-governments where every privateer, accounting is run by each association's special bookkeeping, and in fact, local self-government leaders, i.e. within city administrations free of charge. So a lot of funding goes to privates basically. The public money should remain in the form of associations, and the administrations of city services and municipalities should do the job, so that there are also local self-government mainly, as well as regional and possible nepotism and conjecture. However, the key problem of the association is when I speak here, these are the criteria of the allocation of funds. The criteria for the allocation of funds to local and regional and state-owned people are the first problem. Another problem is respecting the law. When we have roof associations such as the Croatian Football Federation or the Croatian Olympic Committee which do not respect certain legal norms, and especially the Croatian Football Federation where it is necessary for years to emphasize, even the groups of Torcida and bad blue boys must at that time be those who will be drivers, invite the Croatian Football Federation to respect the Sport Act with all its shortcomings, pluss and minuses. Then we speak at what level is our society where the Pharaohic relationship of these leaders towards, means athletes, and mainly according to these undeveloped areas where people are in these sports organizations, i.e. Smaller sports collectives spend a great deal of time and their efforts, and children have the opportunity to play sports, such as in smaller environments where I come from. So a huge effort is being made, and these environments don't have enough resources, while these are basically spending money and sending a message that they don't need to follow the law. So this is one of the worst messages that could have been sent by a key, very important organization that has divided society, as well as fan groups such as the Croatian Football Federation. And here we see that the reaction is now the very Sports Office, the reaction of Ms. Kostelic, the lady who has essentially instructed the HNS to respect the Sport Act because it has nevertheless moved from the dead spot and all the claims that were invested by the MOST club in the past year still yields results and in this we will encourage Ms. Janica Kostelic. The second is a very important thing, I will repeat the political paw without the award criteria again. Of course this is none of your business, but since you've all touched this law itself, but the fact is that local leaders, regional leaders, are allotting funds for political reasons. Then we see in pre-election time, in the pre-election year, that local leaders mostly increase the amount of funds for associations in their budgets exclusively so that certain associations may not do their job well but exclusively politically to motivate them to do one job, which should be invested in the development of civil society, sport, culture, environmental awareness, the tribune as it should serve civil society for the development of civil society. Naturally we have here and traditional associations, we have associations dealing with the preservation of traditions that are forgotten, which preserve traditional heritage. I come from Sinj, so we have the Knight-Alkar society as perhaps one of the most recognizable associations in the area of the Republic of Croatia that preserves our heritage, the tradition of the Croatian people in that area. And certainly... policy influence mainly in pre-election time, which is visible to various donations which should not happen but should be evaluated solely by this activity of these people in preserving these areas of preservation and tradition and culture which is very important for the identity of our people. He would also note that he would say about the Ministry of Finance itself and the control of the IRS and the allocation of funds to associations, that this is essentially a fundamental problem. The basic problem is how many associations we have, how many funds are leaving and by which the key is allocated, because we need to know that in Croatia no one knows. I haven't gotten that information yet, I just know that those associations that are painted politically, which some other group of authorities and they are being seized because they do nothing but do political work for one side or for the other, to rebel, oppose and protest. This is visible from the last months, whenever some associations have lost their right to the criteria that they were given to, was they meant to receive money by not knowing what key and these others, of course, had previously opposed, and now they are opposed... so one political paw on associations is the worst thing that happens in Croatian society both at local and regional level and at the state level. Therefore, all the changes that administrative barriers to associations need to be supported, but in Croatian society there are enough three, four men and one family advice to establish a small or one family and to seek funds from local self-government where it leads to the inconvenience of local leaders simply because of its political rating and votes is simply forced in most cases to establish a certain part of the funds so that many associations that are essentially not functioning except what they are asking to receive money. And those who do their job don't have the ability to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32962	After a representative, Bulj reported several replic representatives. Representative Gordan Maras first reported to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32963	Thank you very much. Comrade Bull, you've done something I'm terrified of. So after I warned you both about your government and your ministers and everything for 14 months about one case, you hid behind the people who died. It is something that is not done and can never be justified in either the Croatian Parliament or anywhere. So no one's questioning these people and thanking these people. And it is not right to put them in your mouth at all when a fellow representative in the Croatian Parliament asks you for only one thing to respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Is that so hard to understand? If the Constitutional Court has made a series of decisions on this matter, if the misdemeanors and you see, instead of answering me here in that ugly way, you could have suggested to Mr. Orepic that he forbid this shameful walk in Zagreb with this, I don't know what to call those boys who cried out in Ban Jelacic's market such a shameful message, you could have told Mr. Orepic that for such gatherings that they organise with the sole purpose of causing a dismal, fear of a particular party not giving the opportunity to perform because you see that the police have responded and the man will probably be punished for these things because such a law defines. So I'm not asking anything else, specifically the SDP counseling club from the minister of government in the Republic of Croatia, but to settle the appeal after 14 months by respecting Croatian laws. And please don't mention the dead anymore. Because bringing them into context with such requirements that require only law enforcement makes no sense. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32964	Representative Maras, your time is up. Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32965	I see Mr. Maras is threatening my exposure. Well, even this time it's something positive from you, at least you're afraid you didn't say anything else. The interior minister cannot order a friend, perhaps you have ordered, the interior minister in this case Vlaho Orepic must protect the law and act by law, not by any means as I tell him or by you. Perhaps you told your colleague Ostojić how to behave and how to handle certain situations. Vlaho Orepic will use the laws passed by this Parliament and will not behave differently. I don't see what you're trying to tell me at all. You're usually the only person in your presentation and the replicas you've mentioned are Ustashas, partisans, records, just build that thing on it. I'm glad you're threatening, too, because of you, I've come to Croatian politics and similar, so I'm extremely proud to have succeeded here is your reviling of this attitude that didn't look back on the Ustashas, or the Partisans, or the boards. Just say that while you were the minister that your minister of administration, he was less involved in unimportant matters by sharing the people and the sacrifice of that people in these areas, he would certainly not talk about this Law today, but the Law on Associations would be arranged and Croatian civil society would work the way it should and the way it should be fought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32966	Representative Branko Hrg is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32967	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, you have spoken about on several occasions and even in your debate about local leaders and the distribution of funds for the work of associations, so here it has already been spoken and so the law requires that programmes be financed, that the contest is very complicated and that the patterns are extremely complicated. And I have to say, I don't know, maybe there's a practice like that in Croatia somewhere. But let's just say what I know how and how most people do it. For example, sports associations in cities are mostly financed through the community of sports associations where local self-government in the budget determines certain funds of the community of sports associations in principle these funds are allocated to its members on their bodies. The fire community receives some of its budget shares on its bodies, deploys funds for the work of voluntary fire companies and fire departments. Associations in culture are founded, many cities, many environments, also have their own body, so the age of a certain budget and then deploy it for their associations. So in some ways it's not that complicated anymore, it might be, it probably has a situation of what you're saying, but I'm speaking out of practice, from the experience that we have here in my city and in many cities around, we can say around Croatia that in this way it's working, and definitely program monitoring didn't really make it possible for local leaders to be able to give money to someone they like more, someone who doesn't like something less. There may be such situations I say but it's not a practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32968	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32969	Comrade Hrg, I agree with you that voluntary fire departments, the Red Cross have the legal standard of how many local self-governments are required to single out for these associations. However, it would be funny to say that the allocation of funds to associations does not have a handful of politics and that there is no policy impact. It's a little funny and underestimating in the essence of our citizens who listen to it and who watch because they are aware on local self-government that the influence of politics has a good share in setting criteria purely political allocations. This is clear and visible on all local self-governments and regional and state-owned. That's what everyone sees. I mean, what's important is that we have associations that have examples of many humanitarian associations, we have numerous ecological associations. Well, here, for example. in my field was the problem of an ecological from the Long War was to postpone the cost from the ferolegura factory in... near the river Cetina, i.e. along the rivers of Cetina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've seen numerous organizations on the list have green, eco. Neither one came at least to give support and many are being financed from the budget. Why? Because then, during the government of Zoran Milanovic, the ministry granted approval that this cost could be put off along the Cetina River. Why were they silent, why? Whoever gives you the money, you call him your dad, that's what those activists were holding on to. I didn't see them, I'm sorry, I wish they'd come in green then and warned about that problem. So there's always a handful of politics. And that's a big problem in the development of civil society in all associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32970	Before we continue with the replicas, please only all MPs including the representative of Bulj at the moment when you want to replicate or respond to the replica lift the bat. Representative Marko Sladolev reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32971	Dear Mr. Bulj, you spoke of the Croatian Football Federation and disrespect for the Sports Act. However, I have experienced another paradoxical situation in my struggle for the Democratic Dynamos. So when it was an initiative together for Dinamo, when 50,000 people signed that club management should be established on the principle of one member, one vote, 50,000 people signed it. And we asked that NK Dinamo who is otherwise a citizen association give us his statutes as members of that club. And they wouldn't give us their statutes. So as a member of the club, I had no insight into the statutes of the club I was a member of. It was only after pressure from the media and fans that they gave the statute into consideration and then we saw why they did not want to give the statute because the statute states that they choose themselves and not that members have the right. Well, here, if you can comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32972	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32973	If anything is democratic, then it's democratic that every member in each association has the right to vote, and that's all we need, what we should be, should be normal. However, you do not get as a member or a statute or a way of choosing the leaders is simply a Pharaohic system and obviously this was an example in Dinam as well as in many other organizations that function and have great money and public money is invested in them. But today, anything is possible, today it is possible that even the mayor of the largest city says goodbye to the first smuggling into the tram two, three months before the election or forgive parking for the first time, unpaid parking. So in our democratic society, everything before the elections can be used and what Dinamo asked for is quite normal for each member to have his own vote, but obviously we still have the Pharaohs who use well but not exclusively for the development of sport, for the development of young people in sport, but only for their own private interest, and we hope that these things will change and we obviously see both indications and announcements that we are going in this direction but we must not give up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32974	Comrade Bull, I'd like you to stick to the subject. Representative Marko Vučetic answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32975	Comrade Bulj, you were talking about the difference between associations, between states. Associations tend to preserve privacy, and politics and states tend to deprivatize, therefore, the state acts through law, and associations act through some specific activity that corresponds to specific human activity or regional anthology of living to make it clearer to you. So this, whether it's about sports, religious, scientific or health, we're now coming to the area where the associations meet and where the state meets, which is in the distribution of laws and in the distribution of material goods. In your presentation, you pointed out this problem that the state and political powers must not suffocating the association by giving funds in a return way. What does that mean? The state should grant its resources in a non-refundable way, which means that the activity that the association exists for is developing, rather than developing gratitude for politics and for who it apparently gave. The associations, as far as I can see from your exposure, can only survive if they develop this subpolitical structure, or if they develop that life dynamicism that would not exist without them, and which state, because of its tendency to universalize, is unable to do. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32976	Representative Bulj, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32977	Well, I agree that civil society and all associations and every man has a need to be involved somewhere, but I do not agree with you that these material goods that are public goods, which policy gives to associations should affect essentially any political connotations, i.e.. The purchase of politicians of certain associations, but essentially asphyxiate civil society, the development of civil society. If it's money, it's primarily given to similar associations, it's euthanasia associations. We still have the example in Croatia today that the criteria are simple paws of politics is the only and biggest criterion from local to regional self-government, and also the state, and we also see this by not respecting the Law on Sports, the most famous and the largest associations and where the largest public is directed as in the Croatian Football Federation and other associations. So politics can't shut down civil society, you're right. But in this way where material goods are allocated to return to politicians, it is not essentially civil society, but it is mutual trade between certain people who manage associations, stakeholders towards the political elites that rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32978	Representative Josip Djakic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32979	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Bull, you talked about everything and everything but what's actually in these amendments and additions to the Law, and that's an amendment to Article 13 and the abolition of the mandatory seal, i.e. making stamps in the Statute of the Associations. I would rather have defined the way we will have legal certainty in transporting documents as well as statements and any other act arising from the association, when there is no more electronic signature. He would have been a credible replacement for me for a seal that was necessary and necessary. But I'd be more interested if you had started the debate when we're talking about associations that three members are enough to form one association. I'd draw attention to that, three members, no need to stamp. Anyone can be an association and a twitter about anything. No bodies, no surveillance, no administration, no presidency, no nothing. That's three members. Nothing. Three godmothers met and milked state money and talked about protecting human rights or the rights of national minorities or who knows what. This is a problem that should be crucial in these amendments to the Association Law. At least 10 people who will act or the number that makes up the bodies, the bodies of the association must be. So many members must be to satisfy a matter which would be democratic, normal, under the supervision of a transparent and which would have both the court of honor and the Supervisory Board and the Presidency. This is actually inadmissible for me. I, with my association, will certainly continue to use the stamp until an electronic signature is introduced to make legal traffic and all those who will deliver something without signature and without stamps They won't respect it at all. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32980	Representative Miro Bulj reported for reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32981	You basically repeated everything I said. I pointed out at the beginning that it had gone off topic, which means it was these administrative barriers that you could agree with or disagree with. But that you are only now the first term in this House, Mr Djakic, or that for the first time you are in office and that you are in charge of one association, so you are in charge of the association for years and you are in this House. And I haven't heard your cry at all at any time, but we have 1200 or 2,000 defense associations in law, and you are in this House already means how many mandates. You could have, you just kept your mouth shut. You tried to talk loudly about this problem and now I support you, now I support you. And so far, you've kept your mouth shut. That's why we only have defense associations around 2000 on a daily basis, on local self-government from a tenth to a platoon of every brigade. So I hope that these words of yours will be translated into law and that associations will be established, not as mushrooms after the rain, that each house has its own association and every tenth of the Homeland War is its own association. Well, I'm just so sorry you're not in your previous terms, and you've had enough of them as president of HVIDRA that you haven't solved this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32982	Representative Stevo Culej has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32983	Your Honor. Comrade Bulj, I must tell you, you are absolutely right about these defense associations as many as 2,000 of us as there are, I wish there were only one defense association so let's see who we are and what all these associations would look like. Namely, I'll look back here on one of my contacts with an association i.e. with the president of the same association, and she's called Mrs. Teselic in one of the Osijek TV shows by Mr. Flauder in which I'm on the open question she asked who was funding. And she answered me, the phone was, she said the money was coming from the outside. So I'm also interested in who's paying me for him and I work for him, and I'm keeping accounts for him. It is unquestionable that many Croatian associations...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32984	/Intruder Petrov: Representative Maras, please sit down or agree outside the assembly with your colleague. Continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32985	Many associations of citizens are paid outside, do not pay Croatian bills or what they say or what they have programmes. What they have in their statutes which are their goals they do not support but do something else and do many believe in not the best intentions towards the Republic of Croatia. Various associations have also used this law to conceal their work for personal benefit. Here's what I'm going to say is, associations that work like nightclubs, so the nightclub when they lock him up, he turns him into an association and keeps working around the clock. So let's say the members of a mammal family at the top six associations, three of which are sports, have illegally damaged associations for 957 thousand kuna. Well, that's where you'd look at a nightclub called Super-Super where that awkwardness happened with the famous tear gas. [[Intruder Petrov: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32986	Agent Culey's time is up. Thank you. Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32987	I would like to agree with you colleagues that they simply associate nothing like mushrooms after the rain and so the Homeland War Association, literally not even knowing the number at local levels of what an association is, but such a legal framework is that each individual has the right to organise an association. You also noted that this law also allows a number of organizations financed from other funds, from other sources representing who knows whose interests, that they may be given too much media space but these are their interests. And civil society can't ban interest, but it can't work against state interests either, it's now a question that should be asked. And I personally would never participate and cooperate with Sava Strbco myself, but with our war cameraman, Peter Malbash, who doesn't have any association, and he documentes it himself. He produces documentary films about the Homeland War, and there is no support from the state, from local self-government, or regional self-government, and promotes the Homeland War more than numerous associations from the Homeland War and more than those who resist down in communication with this Strbca and teams like those who never wanted the Croatian state free, all Croatian citizens and us Croatians and Serbs and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32988	Representative Marko Vesligaj answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32989	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague Bulj, like all of us here today, all the associations are kind of suffering in the same basket, and it's not all the same, starting with that local level where we have a number of associations with one long-term tradition, experience, maybe some that are newly established and have good quality projects, programs, activities, even if I'm going to put a small fence in the activity because I don't think that associations should be one addition to public social services, we shouldn't be doing what we should as a system do. There was this Association of Disabilities, I think it should be done, not that the associations should be some kind of union facility to provide social services, let's call it that. You mentioned many times in your debate in replicas also local leaders, I can agree that even before the adoption of this law in 2014 it was a good part and true. This law, however, has increased the good part and transparency, and today at least you have to form some commissions, you can no longer give to anyone the means that someone has come to you, so you're good to him, at least the commission in which the people I believe in most local units are something and they know about these things. I'm going to look back a little bit more at this state level, and I think, unfortunately, with the authority where you were involved, you started a political reckoning with a system of civil society that was relatively well established. This system is one data of 96% of the funds available from EU pre-accession funds have been withdrawn. So here's only one piece of information. About these associations that we're now talking about Okay. [[Intruder Petrov: Time, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32990	Thank you. Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32991	Well, I would agree with you that many associations are doing their job and may not even be good enough to reward them. not supported by various local self-governments. In my own city, I have many associations that are really proud of the city and really listen to the development of civil society and sports, culture, the preservation of the tradition of very important organizations that work well, but there are associations that are their own purpose. It's a huge number of associations, they're not recognized and of course you can't ban it if you can't ban it if some law says enough three people to be members of the association. I'm not even saying that the 2014 amendment of the Association Act has not increased transparency. However, the huge influence of local leaders on political associations remains, and the paws are essentially asphyxiated by the political paws asphyxiating the development of civil society, and we can talk about sports locally. What little money we have for sport is mostly wrongly invested, and that's what's being invested and even breaking the law is being invested in the first team i.e. professional players, semi-professional while our children must pay i.e. parents have to pay for training and everything that needs to be paid for. So many children don't even have the ability to train. In fact, these funds should go in sport exclusively for the development of young people in sport, the development of infrastructure, amateur sport so that it's all reversed and it's the opposite of how it's supposed to work. Because everything that is done should go towards young people, as far as sports are concerned, as far as culture is concerned, the preservation of cultural heritage is unfortunately considered much, much to be done. First of all, the fish smell like a head. It's obviously all in the top and going down to keep civil society moving forward. Thank you. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32992	Representative Miranda Mrsic reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32993	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So today we have one technical amendment to the Association Law, but I think we expected the Government to take another step and offer another better law that will go towards making civil society in Croatia work better and to be the flower of democracy as it is in the countries of Western Europe. In fact, democratic societies characterise the existence of three sectors – a public one is a state, a private one is a market for both civil society and civil society. In short, civil society is a citizen who is actively and freely involved in all areas of social action and everything that has been today and critical and commendable is part of civil society. Therefore, what the state has to do, make one framework of regulation, one framework in which associations will move. But the state cannot and must not influence the work of associations despite the wishes of certain and political groups here among us and some others who would like their associations to serve their needs. Of course, when we talk about the local level, then it's at the local level that associations look double. On the one hand, it is seen as an opposition to the authorities and try to choke in every way possible, or be viewed as helping the authorities, and then relying on a way that these associations then have more donations than these associations that are characterized by the opposition authorities and are perceived as negative. But it must simply be taken towards the branch of the lie that it is civil society. What shouldn't be because of political correctness is that the state, I'm also talking about local and state at national level, should not have any effect on the associations themselves. For the last year and a half, however, we have been witnessing that the government wanted, and has made certain shifts in pressure on NGOs, on the media, so on civil society, with the aim of changing certain things in this civil society and favouring one type of association at the expense of another type of association. So those who represent one opinion, those who represent another opinion. And clearly that this is not good and clear that this will lead to additional tensions in society because it simply needs to let civil society function the way it works in all democratic countries, which is that civil society is a flower of democracy, freedom of expression and left, both middle and right. Since Croatia, like all countries of the European Union, is a social state, the foundation of this social state rests on associations and associations are those that are important for the social functioning of the state and their function is... and one of the principles that should be held, and unfortunately I don't think we stick to any government, that there is an extremely important principle of subsidiarity in the association. So it all starts with an individual, of his interests, of his thinking, of his aspirations as to how and how his attitudes, his desires, will realize his activities in society. Since it is clear that an individual cannot be alone, he cannot fight for these goals to be joined by people in associations. And now some kind of prohibiting clause that should be 10 people, that it should be 20, 50 and 100 is just an additional administrative difficulty for associations to form on a free base, free association. Therefore, it is quite enough for three people who have the same opinions and thinking to form an association, and then if their idea falls on fertile soil, it is clear that other individuals who represent those same opinions and the association will then grow further. Civil society or associations as its organisational part are not just part of democracy. They are the goal, and the foundation, and the meaning of democracy. And what I'm sorry about is that here in the last year and a half we've been constantly trying to deal with the past and when we're talking about civil society and associations, and the past isn't a real category of associations and civil society. They are facing the present and the future. They want to do something better and leave something behind. So all these ideas that are now being born, that we are now going back into the past, that we are now going to explore the past without seeing the present and the future, clearly that it will lead to the fact that even part of the citizens who have been joining the association simply saying I have no interest in it, I don't want to deal with it because I don't see my future, and we're not dealing with the present. What has been at work in Croatia over the last year and a half is a system of measures that clearly tries to stop the development of this civil society. And what I can say is that by looking at everything that's happened in the Ministry of Culture and elsewhere, it's a policy that doesn't understand citizens as entities that express their differences within society. So there may also be citizens who do not want to or do not share those opinions that share the current government or current position and that is something to be accepted. And why is it that if these associations express part of the views of citizens, then why do you penalize them and try to cut off their funding and thus prevent them from working? Because I understand what it was all about, because the audience when we speak to non-profit media is an extremely great political potential. It's almost 1/4 of the total policy of all media. But what I must also point out, yesterday was Women's Day, that most of the audiences of these media are women and persons who show great political interest and who have a sense of political responsibility that perhaps for the current government it wasn't some favourable moment. And finally, time is running out, as we talk about civil society in Croatia, there is a democratic regression because democracy and fear do not go together. The media is choking, an independent scene, civil society wants to destroy any criticism to make it easier to rule, not to wonder about potential conflicts of interest, to be ashamed of anti-fascism, not to see growing conservativeism in society. But civil society is clearly not afraid of it, and no repression will be able to destroy civil society in Croatia, and we witnessed it last night when it was a march for women's rights where it is very clear that Croatia, Croatian citizens, do not want to orbit Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32994	A representative of Nikola Grmoya reported first to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32995	Your Honor. Dear fellow Mrsic, you said there were practically attempts to choke civil society. Civil society cannot be suffocated and authentic civil society is one that can function without donations from the city, county or state budget. I was the founder of many associations. We never had the support of the city government, the former mayor. I was the driver of an initiative that brought together thousands of people in the Metkova square against both the county and city authorities. So, if there's a sincere desire to fight for some ideals, for values, then you won't be able to stop someone from giving you money, and by doing that, you might be able to control you. So, such fear of asphyxiation of civil society, those who will be put out in that way, are better off without them. Because they're in civil society for the sole purpose of some self-interest. There is no need to support big policy. Here, we're alone when we took over the town of Metkovic we weren't in great shape. We had to pay back our debts. We couldn't give a lot to the organizations. But there are a lot of associations in the City of Metkovic that are fantastically working, they themselves draw money from European funds and such associations, then we as a town, I don't know, I'm going to list some associations – Lepretić Association, Dobra Association, Association Life, the Neretva Shipyard Association that creates some extra and added value, then Veterans Association IV. The Guardian Brigades – they practically manage the funds themselves. And of course we'll help them. This should be the relationship and city authorities, both county and state towards those associations that themselves know how to draw money, make a good project themselves, then give more funds. To those who only insist on withdrawing money from the state, from the city budget to be a policy service regardless of which policy options whether left or right such associations are better or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32996	Reply to the replica, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32997	Thank you very much. Representative Grumoja, we can agree that you and I, what may be your reaction and replacing the thesis, I did not mean financial stimulation in a way that chokes on the development of civil society so that no donations are given to associations that may not be prone to this political option. But there are a number of subtle methods that can be choked. For example, to favor associations that have the opposite denominator of these associations that are... that part, I'm talking about local government, or we're talking about government anyway. On the other hand, there are other methods that go towards limiting civil society and limiting its reach in the media, to be able to access European funds. So these are all one subtle opportunity that you can prevent from developing civil society. This is the simplest and most effective or we say in Croatia is the most used part, that this association is against me and I won't give it money, but I will give it to this other one who is for me to give the money. That's what we have to fight against. But what needs to be achieved is a local government and a state government somewhere to which the omens than that association does for Croatian societies and the development of Croatian society and then to be financed. And clearly those associations that hit the pulse and any citizens will succeed with zero kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32998	Representative Marko Vesligaj answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u32999	Thank you. Here's my colleague Mrsic, I will agree with you certainly that the state must not affect civil society, especially what is related to democracy, human rights dealing with the rights of minorities because in fact their own function, their DNA we call it so that they are critically thinking about the actions of every set of things, and criticism is the same part of democracy, criticism is part of a democratic society just as it is part of a democratic society and the right to establish their own association. And it will be very difficult, it was mentioned earlier to form a roof association. The defenders even feel that it would not be good, it was a reminder of perhaps some former time we often hear such sharp words on this right side of the assembly, and in fact in some things they are similar. Similar if you go to the establishment of such a roof organization. But what may still be important to say through all this you mentioned in your discussion is the system. There was a good and quality system of support for civil society that could not only be reduced to one year's support because the explanation was that we had not reduced the amount of civil society, we just transferred it to the ministries. You have associations, you have programs that these associations implement that are, for example, founded from an association that is founded with some kind of goal, a short-term goal. Whether it's preventing construction, say, some kind of hydropower plant, whether it's a golf course on Srd and those that stop working, but you have associations that don't stop doing their own thing, fighting for human rights, fighting for Eve yesterday was Women's Day, fighting for women's rights never stopping. And you must provide institutional support through the system for several years. We have had such institutions, unfortunately through the actions of previous authorities and these current furniture of such an institution, such a system has been put in danger and is well suffocated.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33000	Reply to the replica, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33001	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Veligaj. Since you are the mayor of a beautiful city, you have experience with NGOs and civil society financing, and it is clear when the non-governmental sector is financed by the local budget or the state budget that there is a danger that associations will turn into government service, but on the other hand, any wise politician will know that it is good to have an opposition that will have when we talk about associations that may not agree with the current local government that will allow that part of civil society to grow and that any strangulation of that part leads to its growth on the other side and ultimately it is not good for local self-government. We witnessed the previous government where Mr. Oreshkovic and Minister Hasanbegovic were in one way that was inappropriately trying to limit the strength and reach of the media, so non-profit media, media that are alternative media that may in some part disagree with politics, and that is something that a democratic state should not work. And again, I note that I don't think that Croatia deserves to be orbited from being like Hungary and Poland last night, and it showed that march for women's rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33002	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33003	My colleague Mrjić, of course the associations should not be under the control of opposition or authority. At the local level, they are very important, but this activity from people who are that potential of people who are opposed to something or who advocates something safe at local level is highlighted in a way that does not cost him money. For example, if they abolish the birthplace of Sinjsko, and we have an alka... of course I don't have a tribune association that I will react on my own regardless of what Minister Milinović Darko was then or that someone was yours, it doesn't mean anything to me. So this local activism is very important. Or if they want to poison the Cetina River with various industrial wastes when it was your government, when you were the minister. My water matters to me, my shit matters to me, my shit. The same now or the thermal power plant now in Peru, doesn't need that association that's going to be under the paw of politics. If she's under a handful of politics then the green ones shut up when you were, when in Slana rocks in the mining road of the Croats you know, you've been going there since Sinj, from the Long War complete that black cost your environmental minister declared so clean that the sea would fertilize the land, while at the same time at the Omis Association factory sent it. to the Long War factory that it's carcinogenically dangerous. So they simply wanted to poison the river Cetina. I don't care about the incentives of the association as an individual, me and my locals, but we'll protect the river Cetina ourselves regardless of the waste mob that's in the ministry. And in that part, the Green Associations kept their mouths shut. I'm sorry they kept quiet, maybe they didn't recognize the problem. But there are good activities, civil society will never be extinguished regardless of whether you're in power or us or someone else. These people always exist at local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33004	Thank you. Reply to the replica, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33005	Thank you very much. I was one of the most incriminating lawyers at the Birthplace in Sinj because the birthplace had a long history, so that the alkars could still be alkari by the statute, but unfortunately it's the way it was. Clearly, associations that were under the control of the authorities were either green or others would eventually lose credibility with the citizens and will no longer have any impact as they were when they were independent. As far as citizens themselves are concerned, citizens will clearly recognize their interest and theirs, what they would like in that part. In any case, when we talk about the province of Sinj, the province of Sinj unfortunately fails, the field of Sinj could feed the whole of Split. It used to be. There are no jobs in Sinj, there is no employment in Sinj, and that is what you should work on in Sinj and Sinj authorities to make Sinj become what he used to be, Sinj had a great high school, there went and attended that high school great people. And I hope that Sinj will finally get his birthplace one day so that then the Alkars can be there, they can become... to be alkari. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I say, citizens will recognize what they, which associations represent and those associations that go towards capital and those who finance them, will eventually shut themselves down and we have thousands of examples of them in terms of the number of associations in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33006	Representative Josip Boris reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33007	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Mrsic, you said in your debate that there was an attempt by the authorities to choke the associations and choke civil society. I really don't know where you got that. Is the attempt to choke civil society an increase in funds based on an amended regulation of gambling this year, from this government? Is that suffocating associations or the civil sector? Is suffocating associations prohibiting some of the activities of these organizations? Who did the government or the government forbid to do what they think should be done in the civil sector? No one, no one. What's the problem? The problem is that the SDP put its hand on some of these associations and regularly SDP members appear in the front lines of some protests. Are these civil society protests or civil society associations or are they political protests? Is that what we're gonna talk about? Do we want to talk about it? Is that what we do, is that what some other parties do? It's just you. So I'm watching a recent protest in Fascism victims' market, more flags of the workers' front than those organizers say civil society associations. It's SDP's satellites, they're talking and doing what you think. And then you give us a lesson and you say you're not credible and you don't do what you need to do. So look at your credibility. You say last night was a march for women's rights, Bernardic in the first row of marches for women's rights. Today, one of your former MPs says that this is how she obtained her rights, that Mr. President of the Party has achieved women's rights in such a way that between the three women on the list that were to be replaced by Mr. Milanovic has chosen a man. So between three women, he chose a man. And you're fighting for women's rights? So who are you lying to, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33008	Representative Boric, please stick to the subject. Reply to the replica, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33009	Well, Mr. Boric, you don't understand civil society. Well, of course civil society also includes political parties because they are members of political parties. Therefore, when that march of Pro-life was on the front row was the wife of the Prime Minister, is that right and some other HDZ members were in the front row, Mrs. Hungarian, as I recall, etc. Therefore, do not have double criteria. Clearly, as politicians and political parties in certain associations, we have sympathy and in others we do not have sympathy but in others it is normal and everywhere in the world it is so and you cannot forbid one or the other or one to finance more, one less because you, the less you love or the less you love their attitudes. And what about the tent outside the ministry? What was the tent outside the ministry? The same protest of one association of defenders who protested for some of their reasons. So is it civil society, or do we not admit that defense associations are civil society? And don't have double criteria. If we've allowed one thing, we have to allow the other. And as for what you mentioned last, I disagree, I said it publicly and I think the SDP must and do what it has declared, and that means there are more women in the Parliament and I hope that's what's going to happen. But in any case, Croatia should not go the way Hungary and Poland are going, and I hope that will not happen in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33010	Thank you. Representative Branimir Bunjac, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33011	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Maras, through this debate, basically with MP Boris, you kind of answered yourself in front of me to this finding of yours, which is that in fact most associations have put themselves under political supervision and that they have lost the role they should have played and therefore come under the contempt of the majority of the public. You finance associations in a way that they must support your policy, not just you, of course, and the HDZ gentlemen. We will now see it nicely during the local elections when you will spend hundreds of millions of kunas to paint with those associations that are related to you, to organise those protests, a civil society association where only members of a party will appear, so you will finance the portals of an association on which you will conduct a link of insinuation that you will order and on that side is really a question of that so-called. Civil society, I say, has lost every sense of purpose. Perhaps this law should really change significantly in Croatia, especially in terms of financing. Here you are, for example, funding young anti-fascists 200 thousand kunas, telling me what this association is known for in public. Here I really don't know. You let the associations go to Tito's grave, to drive buses there. While at the same time to organizations that are really doing something, they are given 500 or 1000 kuna each, they are given ZAMP as some kind of tax. And among other things, your Minister of Management Bauk said that the number of associations should be reduced, so he personally advocated it, he personally carried out bankruptcy on the advertising boards, and don't blame it for urbanization when you basically carried it out yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33012	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33013	Mr. Maras is here in front of me, I'm Mrsic, so let's get this straight. But Maras can answer, too. It would be the same. When we talk about the urbanization of Croatia, then it's not what you think, but it's a breakthrough of one way of thinking that goes in the first place to limit women's rights to choice, and then after that we move on. What is happening in Poland and Hungary and in Croatia is now seen in parts of our society in this way of worldview and thinking. I don't think Croatian society is either Hungary or Poland and will resist this one crawling conservative revolution. You would have abolished all associations and then you would probably only remain a living wall, because the Living Wall is an association. All political parties are associations. So, if we abolished all the associations, we would end ourselves or you would say that you are the only one representing the interests of citizens and that all others are being paid or paid by someone to promote certain political interests. It is clear that both associations and part of associations represent certain political interests because it is an association of citizens who also have their own political interests that they want to promote through the association and that is what I have been saying all along that associations are a flower of democracy because they have both left and right, there are both promotional and churched and proclerical but it is all civil society. And what we need to stand for when Minister Bauk was talking about is that we need to reduce the number of associations so that those associations that don't work are abolished which makes sense because they're just ballast. Thank you very much. [[The President's incursion: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33014	Now we'll take a break by 15.00 hours when we move forward with the session. Party at 13.25pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33015	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Individual debate, Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33016	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about the law and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Associations, especially when such a small change is impossible not to mention everything that is behind the work of associations is needed, or what now bothers people who are in the civil sector, who would like to work for the benefit of society, for the benefit of citizens, and in fact cannot. And no matter what I was a little bit surprised today in the morning listening to colleagues from the MOST, Mr. Panenic, who almost cried out here for a pay phone after those stamps, we all remember it was a very comic situation from the fifth month last year when both Prime Minister Oreshkovic and Mr. Panenic, when they triumphantly spoke stamps go into history and will probably save entrepreneurs and associations and all and the course of business, will be much simpler. And this morning I'm not exactly what you'd say following the situation about it, but I saw today Mr. Peninic calling desperately for it to finally apply as if it hadn't been 6, 7, 8 months since then, as if it wasn't easy to do as it was simple for associations to throw out the use of stamps for both companies and craftsmen and for the company. And then a man asks himself a question if such a simple thing as removing the seals in Croatia is not possible in our government in a coalition that is now in power, that only much more complex things that unfortunately and the problems that have accumulated in our society will be solved and how we can simply move forward as a society and as a country that is now more burdened with problems and intolerance than it has ever been before. For the past few years, amazing things have escalated in Croatia and those who do not see it are being deceived and fled from the truth. And on this side it is very important that associations, civil society continue to function in Croatia, not to be called. Here we were listening to today's debate by Mr. Djakic, who said here, everyone in Croatia can start an association, there are enough three people, three godmothers said he and said they can do whatever they want and no one controls them. Watch this line, so no one's controlling them. Well, as if we're not in the EU in modern society, Mr. Djakic calls out, I'm sorry he's not here right now, if you can call the gentleman and explain what he was going to say, but how he can even call for a situation that would be controlled by the associations. Who would control them? I understand his need to perform in this way because he controls an association on behalf of a political option. And she explained the political option to that scene to the NGO, and basically very pro-government and very connected to the government now, and to the opposition when the second option was in power. But it shouldn't work like that. And then Mr. Boris answered and said that there were politicians at the rally to fight for certain human, social rights that we feel threatened in Croatia, as if it excludes at all the possibility that people who deal with politics belong to civil society and thus contribute to increasing tolerance in the Republic of Croatia. Like it's a bad thing here yesterday to be on the march for March 8th for women's rights. It's bad for Mr. Boric. So if you're fighting today that women have more space, that they're not treated as someone's property, that we don't have some men here 15 of them after the Constitutional Court has made a certain decision as to how they explain that it's essentially not, how they treat women as objects, and that way they're trying to sell us some stories that, I hope, we've left behind for a long time, then it's negative for Mr. Boric. I think that's positive. I took my children to that march yesterday, and so I'm going to raise them from when they're little, so until they get there, until they leave home, they have the right to express their attitude, to have the right to think, to have the right to choose, that they are their own, that no one will explain to them where to do what to do, etc. Let them think for themselves. And then of course you see another interesting situation. A colleague from MOST reports and says the HNS Football Federation is probably because Grmoja and Bulj are candidates down in Dalmatia and now they feel there might be some traffic for them a small voting no, and says there should be change. And their partners hold it as their property. 11 of the 17 people in the CNS Association in the HDZ Executive Board in all order, presidents of the county organisations, etc. or Mr Krstulović Opara, who says in Split, we must piss off that society around Shuker, and all the HDZs are next to each other. And then you just see basically how much we have to try to fight here to get these associations, not to have no stamp, that's the smallest thing, but to protect the space for their action, to protect the funds. We remember last year the attack of Mr Hasanbegovic, who wanted to make sure there were no more associations. Why do they need a billion kuna from the budget? Well, that's what we're gonna spend. The Ilcic, who has now received an ideological position at the foreign ministry, reported that a billion kuna is better directed at other things. What do we need the civil sector for? We have, HDZ has a football alliance and an association led by Mr. Djakic, that's enough from the civil sector. We don't need anything else. And you see, in fact, that today as far as we thought we were away as a society, that we entered the European Union, that some of your standards are unquestionable, you see that for them we should still fight and that we should insist on things and talk here about things that aren't the removal of the stamp. This is about means, freedoms, possibility of action, ideas to fight for, not whether or not someone will press the stamp. That's totally irrelevant. It's totally irrelevant when we talk about the Association Act whether it's gonna be a stamp or not. Is the Department of Management going to do anything? Well, this ain't no job. This is done in two days. Let them sort out what my colleague Bauk said on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Let them solve the final case, I don't know if Mr. Secretary of State listens to me, could this be heard now with Mr. Minister and inform us here when the case they filed 14 months ago from the Association of Volunteers of the Croatian Defence Forces of the City of Vukovar on the issue of "For Home Ready" Ploče. 14 months, when? Tell us when it'll work out. That's what we're interested in. It's more interested in associations than whether they're gonna press the stamp or not. Whether they're going to have to change their statutes because of it or not, it's totally irrelevant. But again, they show ineffectiveness and reluctantness, and I would say the incoordination of the authorities we have in Croatia. Things that get solved in two days can't get rid of seven months. And I'm sorry about Mr. Panenic. The gentleman was disappointed today at the pay phone, the malts were cut because he himself was aware of how unfunctioning the government is. He said it was not resolved, which is why the government announced again on January 5th something he announced seven, eight months ago. I am sorry, Mr Panenic, and I wish that all of us in Croatia don't have to worry about such a government that can't agree on two things and that ultimately pushes insignificant things, and what we should talk about today in the Croatian Parliament we have to talk about this way that is not strictly related to the subject, but simply cannot be avoided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33017	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. First replica representative Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33018	Comrade Maras, this exposure of yours has two parts. First, one of the knowledgeable perspectives at the level of association. You were carrying out things that had nothing to do with the subject, but they had nothing to do with any thought. The other part refers more to the work of associations and to everything involved in civil life. I think we could agree on that. This first part clearly that we cannot agree because we need some continuity of consciousness, but in this second part we could come to the conclusion that associations help us build a society that will be tolerated in stopping intolerance, and it is only taking place in a way that we first recognize some irregularities in society, the world and politics, that this irregularity that we have recognized and learned is taken over on our own back and that we offer some solutions. Civil life solutions and civil life associations will certainly not be possible to seek intolerance towards political opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33019	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33020	Thank you very much. Well, look, Mr. Vučetic, I can agree with you on tolerance and intolerance in this part. But people no longer have the tolerance to announce reforms this year and nothing is happening or a law that defines that the mark of this Association and Association Act is being removed, or something is messing around Dubrovnik to make it impossible for Vlahusic to run. It's small, no personal trivial stuff. You promised as an option a lot more. And why would citizens have the tolerance for nothing happening? So read some pores, the media, and you'll see that everyone expects something to happen, and nothing happens. To point to problems, and you're hand in hand, so that's where you vote hand in hand, and down in Dalmatia, Bulj and Grmoja speak of Ževrna and this Dobroslavić as if they were the worst politicians in the world. So give me a minute, you be consistent. You show that thread, just like you used to object to me and show that you can't speak at one level, and on another level say the other. Or you're basically a pragmatic politician who sees that it doesn't go differently, but that you have to adapt to that bad policy as it has been so far, but then be honest. Don't tell the public you're something else. Do not present yourself for anything else, but present yourself that we are the same and we function in a similar way as our HDZ partner does. Where we like it, we're okay and where we don't like the trees, rocks on our partner, like Thunderbols and Bulls do. So, I'm not the problem with this and my consistency, I'm the problem with your inaction, and the citizens are not tolerance to your inaction, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33021	Thank you very much. Second replica representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33022	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you challenged me by mentioning my last name. Let's get this straight from yesterday and that march. So when I replicated my colleague Mrsic, I told and talked about the issue of credibility. If you have noticed at some gatherings or at some civil society protests, politicians with flags appear, suggesting that it is even more political gathering than a gathering of some civil society association. And if that's all normal, if tomorrow we're all going to have flags, party flags going to these gatherings like who has their own, who has an association, then the question of what we're developing is whether they're as civil society associations or we're fighting for our own policies. That's what I'm talking about, and then I mentioned the case of your President, Mr Bernardic, who was on the women's rights march yesterday. If I remember correctly, and I said it's out of credibility, which you warned about. A colleague Mrsic warned him publicly today, I saw later that he was not credible. Because if you march for women's rights yesterday, and you're making a decision that instead of a fellow Milanovic who came out of the assembly bench, a man will enter the club again instead of three women who are on the list and have even more votes and have every right to be here, then it's not credible. That's what you have to tell your president, even though you accused him of not being able to make decisions, but he probably made some kind of decision. And of course he steps or marches for rights, and in reality he's something else. It's called demagogy, nebula or demagogy. You're doing it skillfully.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33023	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33024	Thank you very much. I wish I'd seen someone with the HDZ flag at yesterday's rally to support it. I seriously wish I'd seen women's right to choose the HDZ logo, I'd be overjoyed. Maybe I'd take that transparency into my own hands. Maybe I'd take that transparency into my own hands, too, Mr. Boric. You come next time and I'll tell Boris he's okay. He's not a demagogue, he doesn't keep a fig tree in his pocket. ... Well, because HDZ has the right to fight for women's rights, that's what I want to tell you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So who is this of you, is this our homeland? Is this our country? Where are we fighting? Well, they're people, there were articles from a hundred parties maybe. How do I know who's from which party? It may have been someone from MOST, but I'd love to, and I'm going to say, once again, the transparency, the right of women to choose, the HDZ logo. Or what it's called your Katarina Zrinska. If Mrs. Murganic had been there, the president of the Association of Women "Catarina Zrinska" I would have liked it to have happened and I would have said bravo Boric you have every right to say what you said later. But since you weren't there, since you're taking care of everyone except yourself on that side, you don't need to give lessons to others. Try to fight for a society that'll be better tomorrow and don't hold people back. There were two, three thousand people there yesterday. That's a lot of people. A lot of young people, most women. I'd like you to come next year, Mr. Boric. These people won't do anything to you, they're not dangerous. They are not dangerous and they would receive you in a procession and march, a night march in the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33025	Thank you. And another replica, Agent Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33026	Thank you. I'd like to say colleague Maras you fought heroically in this House today and you were really there. Here I was today a black sheep, one of those who wasn't. But I would ask you to ask yourselves, and all the other MPs, is the topic that we are discussing here today, the Law on Associations, which changes a formal detail of it with the seal, is that worth our entire day's debate? Is it possible that other things should come to the agenda and eventually, if they are not coming, that they should say that they are putting on more current topics, because I am 100% sure that 99% of the citizens today are not interested at all. And thus, this whole debate is actually one thing to say, so let's say torture of the Croatian public, and with our announcements and replicas, we're just prolonging their agony. And no matter how much we argue, nothing will change under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33027	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33028	You're wrong, colleague Pernar, because this certainly makes sense. Maybe it doesn't make sense to this law, you've noticed that well. This is underestimating both the public and the Parliament that the reform that MOST is ousting is about abolishing the seals of associations. I mean, it doesn't deserve any comment, but we heard interesting things today. We first heard that Mr. Panenic got up and said the government didn't work because seven months didn't do the same for companies. So that's the first message the Croatian public has heard here today. The HDZ and MOST authorities are not functioning. After that, we heard people from HDZ like Mr. Djakic what we need from these associations. It's just three godmothers, they meet, they talk about anything, and no one controls them. Watch out, that's what the man said. No one's controlling them! So how can organizations that no one controls work? In his mind, it's like that. So then we heard Mr. Boric that those dangerous people who waved there yesterday with flags on the night march from the Workers' Front because they're pushing, look out they're dangerous, it's politicized. For what? Because they stand for women's rights. It's as if in Chicago a hundred years ago we've been listening to these same stories who know what, maybe there was a Boris who was judging such marches for women's rights. It's possible anything, you never know. So we heard again from Mr. Bulj's MOST who has been hacked says the HNS Sports Association is all bad, nothing, and inside 11 of the 17 members of the HDZ Executive Board, all of his partners at the level of the state with whom he raises his common hand for various things. It's all our citizens heard and it's not bad. I also call on the government to continue to propose laws if it wants or if there are no better ideas banal, and we will talk here and about banal laws on important things. [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33029	Thank you. The next debate came from representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33030	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I must say, I'm quite surprised by today's debate. So we've been discussing the bill all day, and you could say that in two presentations, this law itself was mentioned. We've gone far from the subject, but it's not even a problem that we've gone so far from the topic because I can understand why we've gone from the topic because the business association is problematic. Associations are a legal form that can have several million incomes and no employee. Associations can also carry out economic activity and do not report it despite the fact that the obligation is recent, I am not sure whether any association carrying out economic activity has done so. Also, associations also have profits as a non-profit organisation, can't raise them as companies, but here I am personally when I was president of the Association voluntarily came to the Tax Administration and applied to the profit tax system. The question is how many such associations are in Croatia. I can understand why we're talking about such problems, but I can't understand that no one can see that we have a bill here that has just proposed a solution to one of the administrative problems. So that at least five people in the assembly today have proposed five concrete solutions to the five problems we have with associations, and no, we keep going back to history, we keep going back to problems that absolutely no segment can affect the improvement of the business of associations. Also when we talk about the financing of associations, I have to point out that I blame both cities and municipalities and counties, as well as ministries that are... funding from eu funds because they may not have, perhaps, already not informed enough associations about their ways of funding outside the budget. My organization where I was president has never been on the budget of the city of Solina, nor will it, at least while I'm alive because there's no need for that. So there are ways of funding, as you can earn from your work, so there are also eu funds and other national funds through which associations can be financed. So I'm going back to the bill itself, which is that today we have a proposal that is the solution to administrative lifting of administrative barriers. And I'm going to do it again because I saw that a large number of MPs didn't even realize what this bill was about. Therefore, this law removes the paragraph describing the appearance of the seal in the statutes, so associations that already exist, operate which have a seal and do not have to change their seal or abolish their statutes. They can do it, but this law doesn't require it. This is about associations that are being founded and that will help to make this process faster than it has ever been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33031	Thank you. We have one replica, two. Representative Maro Kristic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33032	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Ivan. In one part of her debate which also took a turn on the subject, logically ate that all MPs were quite distracted, so of course you also wanted to point out some difficulties in the work of the organizations you touched the supervision. In fact, Mr. Maras was saying that no one should even oversee the work of the association. I just think it's extremely important to oversee the work of associations, not only to punish irregularities that are certainly very large but precisely for the reason that this surveillance should be of an instructive nature in order to teach people who operate in these societies how to respect laws and regulations. It is also very important that you emphasized the importance of education. So today we have extremely successful associations. These are associations that come together where people associate with the real objectives of public action in which people have professional qualifications. So let's say in Dubrovnik we have an association SRĐ is ours, which in collaboration with the Green Action organized and funded a referendum on the project at Srđ, which was financed by the funds from eu funds. Therefore, extremely high opportunities for the use of European funds for civil society associations are, only to be known, to be educated, to be invested. And I think it is precisely the key to the success and effectiveness and legality of the work of the associations in supervision that should be instructive in nature and in education. I think that is exactly what units of local self-government and regional and states should be stressed to invest very much in the education of civil society because then we will reduce the need to reduce or reduce the funding from the budget of all three categories, we will increase their capacities and the ability to attract funds from different sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33033	Thank you. You don't have a reply to the replica. Thank you very much. Next replica representative of Mladen Mader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33034	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'd like to say to my colleague at MOST that here, and right now your colleagues have gone off the topic, they've been having a really bad time dealing with this proposal of yours about changing the press, which you think may be the most important thing for the association, but they've just pointed out what the problems of the association are, and I think it was important in the proposal for the reform of the associations that reforms were about the way they were financed around the associations, and I don't think this is a side thing about the changes in the seals. I think your colleagues were doing the same thing on the subject so they didn't deal directly with this change, whether or not they had to have the press.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33035	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33036	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't say at any point that this is the most important business law of the association, this is important for beginners, so those who are just moving into the establishment of the association. And the Association Act cannot determine the financing of associations, I guess that part is clear to you. I will repeat on the financing issue that right now municipalities, cities and counties, ministries and states are obliged to inform and educate all associations in the way they can take or withdraw funds from eu funds or national funds, not to set up associations and expect to receive a budget that divides the city, municipalities each year. Or worse if it's used for political purposes, and I think unfortunately we're witnesses and such situations in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33037	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Representative Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33038	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome the exhibitors of this proposal and all my colleagues and colleagues. So today we've had a lot of discussion at the beginning of the debate about the categorization of associations, about some of their selections, and then we all looked back on the financing of associations. And when do you get close to this seal that's essentially the subject of this law? It is definitely very important to discuss the categorization of associations and it is a good job waiting for the Ministry of Administration and there must be one head at the top of all that, because the associations are very complex and there are very different and it is definitely something we will need. Just because I'm an active member of five different associations, this way I'd like to contribute to this debate to really say that this law seal issue will really have the effect on the field of what kind of examples I have and what we might think about since this is the first reading. Yet there are things here that might be improved, worked out and so forth. So I'm in charge of four years of an association operating in the area of 19 units of local self-government. Just as your minister means he was one of those who participated in our expansion, so in the area of the City of Omis, and we signed a contract last month of 12 million kuna. In the end, I'm going to tell a story that's very close to the seal, which means we're only planning this month to prepare projects for and farmers worth more than six million kunas. I mean, I'm sure we'll get them ready. It also means I'm a member of the local mountaineering association, music, I play clarinet, there are colleagues from our music, and I'm also a member of the board, when you're doing well in one association, then to all these associations where you're a member of the hobby, so give me a professional job in your association, help us with some proposal, will you be on the board of directors, so I'm also a member of the Croatian Rural Development Network. I'm here on the board of directors. And I represent Croatian... in the European network for rural development that brings together means.... And then what happens? In EU funding projects, our departures to these meetings, the sessions that take place in Brussels, are funded by the European Union programme implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture. And of course that Brussels-based association has no seal. And then we have a problem with covering these costs, the lists on which we were not printed, and there's the problem means in Croatia because we bring some document, and they simply don't have a stamp as an association because they are on a European scale. Then what else is happening to us? When we set out to finance the meaning of measure 202 for the implementation of local strategies, we got the cost to form, we got the resources to form an office and we were covered by the costs of directing. In 3 months during the first accounting period, the Republic of Croatia made very little use of these European funds. Why? Of such 33 registered associations only 7 and we were among them responding to requests to deliver that request for payment. What's going on? HEP, the plumbing, the phone, these accounts came because they were serially with some kind of scanned seal, they were unmarked, and we ended up being us because our competent means executive directorate of the Payment Agency didn't realize that it was common that such accounts, or later, gave us these instructions because it was logical then we would, for example, run into HEP. Then you come to HEP and then they tell you there, so you know this is just an outpost in Makarska, so in Split they only give you that stamp. We can make a copy here and it was a live show. So for the first three months, that was my mother. Now what would you say about that? You're the one who said that associations, you don't prescribe this law to us if we're going to have a seal. You're just saying we don't have to. And you're saying we should know if we need the seal. And which one of us is asking for a seal? Through all these associations where I'm active, they're asking us to seal the state administration. So you've given us one extra job, so as an association, we're thinking whether we need a seal or not. In addition to the state administration, we are often asked by the banks for a seal and it is important that we do not have to use the seal in the future, we all know that the register of associations is public, that they are very well and easily able to verify that we are responsible persons because they are included in the register of associations, that both in banks and in any exposures, state administrations, etc. that they simply Internet is available to everyone to check that we are responsible persons, that we give a ID card and then that we do not need a stamp. Now, I think they're now, whether they're going to get into this law or they're going to give special instructions I don't know. Our organization, the one I run, is specific and it requires that it has three sectors in its administration. Public, economic and civil. And we, when we sit at one table, which is important, there are other representatives who work in such associations of our fellow Members of Parliament, so when we sit at the table, we don't go attacking each other because any development requires cooperation and economic, both civil and public sector. So it's so important that you and the economic sector, with banks, explain it nicely to them and to everyone else who might have our objections to our work. In our membership fees, it means we've never had a problem with the owners, let's just say they're paying us membership fees. You can't issue an account for membership, but we have an accounting program that's a membership fee. But, of course, kindergarten principals, the school calls us that they can't accounting for such documents unless they have a stamp. So we're back at public institutions. Now, so, what happened about a month ago? A legal person who has a trade mark should not go to a public notary. We just sign, print, and that's it. Still a natural person when he enters the rent of an apartment, when he does anything, they need to go to a public notary because yet the signature itself is a little questionable there, we have no data anywhere, we don't have a register of associations, we don't have a register of natural persons that we don't have available. And then we got a call a month ago to sign the grant agreement for $12 million. But one of the officers in a few years ago, that rule got in the way no matter how legal we are, that we should sign a contract with a public notary. We 55 of us and fellow parliamentary representatives, as I have said from all sectors, are members of such associations, we have come to this signing ceremony. None of us signed that contract because we couldn't use our seal at all because we all had to go within five working days to the notebook. So what am I saying? Administrative barriers are removed not only by law, but by organic. They really really just have to get into public administration, educate them and watch what kind of people we hire in public administrations, do good selection, provide them with additional education. We're all MPs here, don't they all have legal knowledge but we're passing laws and we need to know what we're bringing. And so those who do whatever the professions are must know what they require of us, and that is the essential part that is very important in the implementation of this law. The fact that this law will be freed from use, associations will be freed from the obligation to use the seal, and my colleague, I think Bauk said that the work of the association is prescribed by various other regulations and they require things. That doesn't make it any easier for us. It's our responsibility, so we check it all out, we know it all, and it's really impossible. We expect it to create a state administration and to categorize us, to bring one comprehensive meaning of reform and amendments to this law that will really distinguish a mountaineering club or a local football society from the biggest one. Because it would really be a shame to put yourself in the same basket and put your little one out, and to constantly impose these administrative barriers that actually come most in the implementation, not in the legal solutions themselves. There you go, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33039	Here's a good one. So many replicas on you. I thought it would go away without it. The first replica is representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33040	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, just because the debate is good, here's what I've been offered. So, colleagues Roscic, you've brought out a series of things that are really in practice crucial and are based on how we like to talk as a society, we like to call on it. We also have the Central State Office for Digital Society. So we must or should apply the good practice that exists in EU countries as soon as possible, and as soon as we do that, it will be better. Once again, we stress that this law, now from this presentation of yours, is being presented by some colleagues, seems to me that this law has come prematurely. You're in a hurry. Are you in a hurry or are we late? I mean, something's going on, but I'm just going to read this one part that I found on the Internet. Mrs. Martina Novosel, the graduate lawyer wrote it like this. He says: “There are a number of laws, such as the Law on Commercial Society, the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on Payment Traffic, which speak of this matter. However, the fact that the use of the seal is, however, conditional upon and normally, business practice itself except in cases where the company specifically addresses the specific categories of entities such as the Tax Administration, the Pension Insurance Office, the Institute of Health Insurance where it is necessary to use the seal with the signature." Therefore, on this subject has now been accessed from one aspect, one law, the Law on Associations, and everything else remains uncovered. So they'll have to intervene here as soon as possible. I say the Prime Minister must first of all ask that these legal conditions be laid down as soon as possible. And just one little cartoon now, at a pre-election rally, one man came to me. He says I'm the most troubled by the OIB. So what does he say? Wherever I come, they need an OIB, and I can't remember it says, and I can't see it. He says I write, but I can't see. And when I had a little drink, I was riding on a bike and I was taken to six for sobering. I asked them if you needed an OIB, they said we don't have everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33041	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33042	Thank you. So that's exactly what it means. And yes, what I emphasized in the last part of it, I'd add that to it, and I'd relate to this to yours. So if we're a legal person, if we have a seal, we don't need a public notary, and then we don't have that expense of a public notary. Whether it's important to put in instructions whether associations can have a stamp, sometimes use it, sometimes not. For example, to use it in legal affairs that would require us if we didn't have a stalemate means the cost of a public notary, to define it, to be able to do a little bit of not and to decide and prescribe it by our internal acts, whether it's for an account or for some other things. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33043	Thank you. Next replica representative of Mladen Majer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33044	Thank you, Vice President. Here's an honor to discuss. Really when someone's connected directly, and they know the problems that happen, and that's what we meet really in the field with the problems. Because it's one thing to write laws, and it's one thing to deal with problems. I would only like you to read Article 22(4) of the Law and Articles 5 and 19 of the Regulation. The Register of Associations and Registers of Foreign Associations are central electronic databases run by the competent office, i.e. She's run by the state administration and she's unique to all the associations. With the fact that we need to know, at least we're warning how much do you know that register is unsupervised. For example, in the register, there are active associations that are practically no longer available. The database for associations is incomplete and does not correspond to the real state, and registration in the register of associations is a mandatory criterion prescribed in Article 5 of the Regulation so that the association may apply at all for the award of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33045	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33046	I've been using that register and register every day for the last half of the year, and what's different about this alignment with the law that's been passed last year. So about associations, some associations' offices have really ruled out some associations that didn't comply with the law and some didn't. He's less outdated than he was before, because the offices have entered the data of those they have, which they've processed. So, unlike maybe a year ago, two days ago and that's why it's very important. So you've now praised my debate because it comes from the field, and what happens here is representatives of municipalities, cities, so all they have to do with the association is finance or inactive members. So I'd also like to say that this is going to have problems with financial management and control again because she asks everyone when she receives an account or a reckoning, for example, membership fees, to check whether or not they're aunts in kindergarten who became principal, so she has to spell if she has a signature, is there a stamp and everything else, so we're going to have to educate them in that regard. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33047	Thank you very much. Next replica, Agent Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33048	Dear colleagues. You mentioned the need for categorization, if I understood correctly. So you mentioned categorisation by activity, but there are legal entities in the Croatian legal system that are persons with public authority, and associations are. They're for example. All sports alliances, based on the Sport Act. They have public authority, they are the body of public authorities, and let's say their decisions are subject to the control of administrative courts. That's for example. The Croatian Autoclub, which has the status of the association and has certain public powers, then it seems to me to be the Croatian Red Cross which is also an association and has public authority. At this point, they are also engaged in the Associations Act, but almost every one of them has its own special law, the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, I can't count now, I think that either the Emerging Mother or not an Association, so already in the Croatian legal system is a large number of legal entities that have the formal status of the association to which this law applies, but only in the part of the registration, we give in part of these status issues, that's one. And secondly, it is my impression that, and this is a proposal for colleagues to propose that in the transitional provisions of the law if in this form they go into another reading, they would say that the bodies of the public authorities where the sublegal acts are determined to seek the seal that they should not seek it because you always have someone to say it, but in our rule it says that we need a seal. And by the time justice is achieved in that sense, the train has passed, so here is my replica to you and my suggestion to the colleagues from the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33049	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33050	At first I didn't mention it at all, but thank you for contributing to that part that should be categorized in terms of activity because I know that there is a categorization of associations, and if they register the activity that they have according to this activity and that there may be more activity, this new law has happened. So what most of our colleagues said during the entire debate today is that they should be categorized through finance. I don't even agree with that, I think there are a lot of criteria to categorize associations. Is it, for example, Here's my association, she formally gets a lot of funding but they don't go directly to our account but go to the account of the user. On the other hand, regardless of how you finance yourself from European funds and whatever it may be, we still submit all these reports to our executive directorates as they are called and they already control us, and then from these special laws come to us that we have to submit the reports twice. And it's not a problem, for example. We who have worked professionally in associations somehow waste time because we hope all these rules are that someone else does not embezzle some money but it is a problem if you expect from a small mountaineering association or hunting association that one time or one time in 3, 4 years implements a European project and if you give them too many of these reports they will not simply deal with if they do not have human capacities for it. We also funded funds to educate our professional associates, members that they can work. I mean, it's our job to teach others how to work with European funds. And these smaller associations will use this project one or two times and it is unnecessary to send a lot of these reports. Therefore, there should be many, many categories and foundations of finance and the foundations of associations with public powers and so on, but this is one complex process and I think you have a lot of work to do with your proposings.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33051	Thank you. We have another replica, representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33052	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, Rostice. You explained nicely what will actually happen and what are disputes in communication as well as in legal traffic documents between associations and obtaining support. This law does not show what it will be and is expected to create a legal chaos, as say those who are operatives in the city office in Zagreb, offices of your entire county who do not know how they will behave in the future. When a person objects to the work of the congregation, selecting those chosen or not selected without signature, without seals, without anything, imagine what kind of mess this will be in the offices of the state administration. What's missing here is after the seal, when there's no obligation as far as he's concerned. What's relevant? Just an act with a header, a memorandum of association, what's that relevant? The signing of the president of the association? Where will he be deposited, how? I really don't see it, and I think this law was supposed to be the last one in line. Associations as such were supposed to be the last, this is all wrongly done over the knee, unarranged and with insufficient explanations which, after the seal was lifted, is as one reform measure. We agree, if the seal doesn't have to, you don't have to. After him in legal traffic, what will we serve? We'll take your word for it, we'll believe it on the signature, on what? On your fingertips? As soon as we serve in the future to trust one another, and what will we respect when there is no seal? It's a question of all the questions. Why doesn't it say what after that? Electronic signature, so why not? Why don't we get him into everything? But let's go. First in Croatian societies, crafts... [[Intruder Opačić: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33053	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33054	Here I am whenever it's said that some changes are small and only technical, it always scares me, because I personally think that they, I won't say that they're causing a mess, but they're causing a lot of irresponsible questions, so there's a lot of answered questions. And it's good that this debate all means a lot of answered questions, and it's good that we all point out what these things are, and on this level, we bring only this one. I believe that the promoters will continue to try to really implement this, that they will discuss that with other public administration entities and everything and that they will easily educate all people, is anything that removes administrative barriers that reduce red tape, I welcome. So I welcome this law, too, but it is important that we all be aware of the adoption of this, and especially those in the executive power, that they communicate well with their offices and not only that, to encourage and cooperate with the economic sector, with banks and all others. And as for this, you mentioned more signatures and that all, it really means in the register of associations when you open it you see who's responsible, there's her OIB. You and your person can prove it's you. No one needs to know what your seal looks like, your signature. And we've got it on our own so we can work it out. It's just that we all have to put ourselves up to it and work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33055	Thank you. And the final debate on this point is representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33056	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I wasn't surprised before. A colleague of the SDP expressed a strange attitude. He said he urged all politicians in all lines of civil society to take over in some way and protest and everything else to come with party features, with transparency and to simply fight for the rights of everyone in their own way, I guess, with all the flags, with all the features. On the other hand, we have a view from one civil society all out because you're in one party. So we're trying to figure out what this party's position is and I'm not surprised at the level or ratings they've fallen to since they don't know what they want to represent themselves. I've always distinguished the Law on Associations and the Law on Political Parties. We know the space and ways that we need to work through associations whether we're politicians or not. We know how we have to work here through political parties. It's a little bit like that, but it's not the same. And I mean this kind of attitude can really surprise you sometimes. But good. A colleague can be special because this law is really simple. Two articles and a real debate that lasts almost all day. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. ‘Subject 3 is What is stated in this subparagraph: “The status of the association contains provisions” and this part which is deleted “the appearance of the seal of the association”. And then we have a debate. Do we agree with that? More or less it was for, there was something against it. And that's where I'm supposed to end up. But the fact is that the debate has spread because we caught the associations a little bit as some say here with hyperboles and parabolas, so we expanded the area of interest. Because really when it comes to civil society associations or so on. NGOs in all areas, in sport, those covered by defenders, ecology, humanitarian work, people with disabilities, etc. The debates in Parliament are always very effective, they're fierce. Because there's definitely a reason for that. We have a agenda and a point of 44th, and it may have been an opportunity to discuss it since we went so wide. This is a debate on the Annual Work Report of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2015. So we could work this out today, both of us. Because we've all talked about one thing and probably more about the other. What are the reasons, and why are these discussions causing public attention and wider debates in the assembly? Well, there's a few reasons for me. The first one's certainly because they have big money each year. We heard a billion and 200 million kunas here today. It's from the state budget somewhere around 650 million kuna. The remainder of the budget of the units of local and regional self-government, of certain activities, membership fees, etc. Listen, when you say a billion, it's not a little bit. That's what interests everyone. Because there are indeed areas in the Republic of Croatia that would be very happy with a billion kunas in many areas. And there are really questions, the question is raised today, which has often been raised about transparency or the way these funds are spent. But I'll talk about it later. We have another reason why associations are always desirable in the debate. We have a large number in the Republic of Croatia. 52,000. If we compare it to the number of Croatian citizens, that is, that means that every 80 citizens has an association. It really suggests that it's a sport to deal with, I think, because obviously there's something there when every 80 citizens can practically be president or have their own association. It hasn't been recorded I mean anywhere in our wider environment, but obviously it worked here. The third reason why a rather broad debate is under way today is procedure and transparency. Because the public is where we have municipalities, cities, counties, the state sees how much noise, the affair raises about 500 thousand kuna. Let's look at many municipalities that have millions, two million kuna budgets. That's where the procedures have to be clear. There's no mistake. I didn't know it was there. I'm not responsible there. In this space you have associations that have 4 million, 5 million kuna budgets, 10 million. These procedures don't have to be so clear. There's enough financial plan, financial report, congregation decisions, and that's it. Is there any surveillance? There is. But how much? Is there enough? I'm not sure there's enough. And that's why they're interesting to discuss. And that's why we politicians talk a lot about them and talk about them here. Of course, associations talk about politicians. And they have their own vision of us here each from their own perspective. And the fourth thing that I think a lot of talk about associations is that they leave the impression that inside, and not outside of some particular policies, there is simply the basis between many associations in the Republic of Croatia, which is tolerance and legal on pluralism, the diversity of thinking, the diversity of attitudes. And really in public space when you look at the conflicts of some people, the leading people of some associations on the left, the left liberal side, let's call it that, on the right more conservative side, so there are expressions that really don't deserve to be in public space. Very difficult words from fascists, spines, left behind in the 19th century. I don't know what's not showing up. Not everyone's ready for tolerance and conversation. All strongly defend their ideological positions and therefore many associations have come to the wallpaper and politics, because politics are also keenly interested in doing something through the obvious system. But we have to determine ourselves. If it's going to be SDP that we all have to put politicians in these associations and we have to impose politics there, so what will the parties do if we let them develop and work on their own, to point out some of the problems that politics is missing, for that to be established, to deal with specific areas, then there's not a lot of their roles in that policy. Because whoever didn't hear today doesn't know about GONG, the Document, the Babe, the Contra or the 112 platform that brings together dozens and dozens of associations. That's what everyone heard in the Republic of Croatia. Not everyone has heard of many of the 150 parties. Of course they know how to present themselves to the media, how to take up space. It's their program and part of their activities, their social activation. Of course they're spending public funds. However, what we can conclude in some areas after 25 years or 27 years of holding. Have we achieved what they somehow stood for and fought for? Everything seems to me that we started building a house on the ground and after 25, 27 years we can conclude that we are still on the ground in many areas, in many areas. Did we effectively spend the funds that were intended for them and did we, as a society, just grow as much in terms of democratisation as they like to say at that desired level? Let's look at their reports, their financial reports. They're all available. We can't say that these associations aren't transparent, we have everything out there. Here's the GONG association, I watched a little, 2015 income is 4 million and 532 thousand kuna, 2014. 3 million 117 2015. It's the budget of two municipalities in Slavonia but if not more. It's coming from membership fees. 2630 kuna 2014, 2345 kuna 2015. It's a very, very present let's say so in the public space of associations. I'm at the Association of Sports Recreation in my place. There's about 70 of us out there. So the revenues from the membership fee in our association go to about 7,8000 kuna. Nobody knows about us. All other funds come from what they say is a donation, from public funds, from the state budget, from EU funds, etc. Up to $4 million. Watch out for 2000 to 4 million. And then when they have to do what they're set up to monitor the elections they say in 2015 we won't, in 2016 they reported 13 observers and identified some irregularities and that's it. But politically very much, we will somehow act on the side to direct power, government to this left or right which is what it should be and how it should be. Or let's take a look at the foundation. 50 million kuna a year, 50 million kuna a year for 2015. 10 million went to alliances, these alliance-covered associations. 2 million organizations that cover defenders, 32 million kunas went into civil activists. There's that concept of democratisation. And then there's civic activation. And I wasn't surprised at one item in their financial plan that says they're revenue from financial assets, they're probably assets that are armed, they have over a million and some kuna revenues a year. So how much money do they have in the account of the armed? Well, it's got to be 40, 50 million kuna. And every year we look for more, and many associations, what we stand for, we give to the association, I don't know children with special needs, people with disabilities. Well, we're giving that money. Why are we holding this? I think it's a task, including such trusts to solve those problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33057	.../Intruder Otter: time. You have two replicas, so you'll be able to do the rest in replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33058	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33059	So the first replica is representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33060	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Boris, therefore, here in this short replica you have touched on a very important topic, and I think it is usually small associations that are financed from local self-government units. It's about sports associations. Somewhere in the Republic of Croatia, I think there are about 16,000 such sports associations and what's the problem when it comes to the money they have. You know, often times that money can't even be transparent, we don't actually see the right scale because local self-government units don't have enough resources to finance. Take one municipality where there are two or three football clubs. Usually it's in the smaller middle of football clubs. Yesterday we had a debate here, a topic about tobacco addiction. The best fight against addiction is just playing sports. And what the state should do in the future is certainly help these associations, sports associations to finance themselves more easily and transparently because they simply can't pay for the coach, they can't pay for it, you have more age, and then they have to pay for it. And we won't hide here. They often work on black, people can't do things differently, watch out. And that if those sports clubs shut down, there'd be no sports clubs in the smaller environments. That's why I think this topic is important and it's important how money intended for associations is spent on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Because every sports association and every association in the field of the local self-government unit is obliged to present to the municipal council or representative body and work plan for that year. And when he gets the funds, he has to justify it. And I often say it's not easy. And these people are then also declared thieves and they say they have no use not to deal with it, and it's fortunate that there are even more people like that who want to deal with such affairs in local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33061	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33062	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, I agree because we all say we are in associations, but I personally don't want to be at the head of some association and as politicians to turn it into what SDP wants as he suggested today. So there are ways and there are people, volunteers who want to not know how to gather small children in my place, start them a society of sports recreation, organize a football school for them, go to a competition with them, and it all costs something, and it can't all be out of the parent's pocket, of course. There is therefore a municipality, a city to co-finance and enable them to achieve it. However, when it all entered the policy area we listened to throughout the day as the debate grew, then it came to the fact that politics really governs everything. We have views from one association of citizens all politicians are out because you are HDZ and we have a call now all politicians inside into civil society with transparencys, with flags of party choice to moderate civil society associations. And I'm against it. Because one excludes the other, and today we are talking about the Law on Associations, and there is a Law on political parties that defines their actions. And if we mix it all up the way we are, then we can agree that after 27 years after we say it, it means that in this space that they want to be constantly democratisation is that we are not democratic enough, you see that we are not democratic enough even though we have all the institutions and everything we need to have in order to do so. In order to be called a democratic society, we constantly have the need to further democratisation each day and see what amount is set out for it. A large amount, 31 million kuna, according to the financial report of this national foundation for 2015, was so in 2014. etc., etc. Where we need to give disabled associations, children with special needs, and sports maybe some smaller associations or I don't know in another area, there's a little bit of selecting. So we have to get to the point where we're going to say at some point some things have to change a little bit. Therefore, it is good to discuss the Law on Associations, so these two articles will go into two readings, and of course we will be able to continue afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33063	Thank you. Another replica by representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33064	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, you've made it very clear how colleagues mix pears and apples, talk about everything and everything, but in this forest, the associations that have been defined through these thousands of associations are clearly said to be the desire and endeavor to allow for the establishment of the three people who can be founders. Three men who can't have a supervisory board, who can't have a presidency to do, who can't have all the honor. It's been a while since local and regional units have been reviewing competitions for projects of associations and thus approve of them, thus controlling them. The justification of the means is more transparent than before, but it requires again traffic confusion at this point when it disappears and there is no need for a stamp. This man without a stamp, a memo, a memo, and we're going towards this institution, towards that institution, and we're going to ask for help everywhere, we're going to make a general mess, the stuff of the system, everything's going to go somewhere where it doesn't need to go. I think we need to define this law as we were supposed to, and then when I suggested that at least ten members could form an association, not three members. And I was talking about three godmothers who start an association and now nominate their projects on European funds and draw money and that's possible. Without stamps, even easier, without control opens a wide range of possibilities of fraud, abuse and any malfeasance that will come to the scene. I would not allow myself without a stamp to do business either without an electronic signature or without a deposited signature with a ID card that would be credible in further legal traffic and represent 35,000 members in HVIDRA RH who also for every acquired project and money you must give a note and debt from your personal account and guarantee your personal property that you will not spend in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33065	Time, thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33066	Thank you very much. A colleague, Djakic, the three godmothers at the end of what you mentioned was enough for an association in one situation ended up at the Committee of Conflict of Interests, of course, and what happened happened, someone was in conflict of interest. That's exactly what we're warning today, even though it's not too much to do with these changes, so we're changing the seals. But maybe what you're saying might open up space to make it even more unmarked. And now we have a situation that we witness daily and watch what can cause 500 thousand kunas of wrongly spent, wrongly taken or missing, and we have a billion here that we're going over quite lightly and we say, well, it's going well. There are municipalities, cities, counties, states and, of course, what's going on. Here I am looking at this foundation again and looking at its composition and the way to choose. I don't know if anyone can change the manager of this trust, I don't think they can by these rules. She appoints five of the nine members herself, so if she has most of them to choose, but I think these things really get funny sometimes. I can't order the association how, politics can't order how to choose. They have their own congregation, three members as we hear or ten, and they make the rules. But there's public money here as well as any other, not every one, but one big part of the public money goes into this association or some other. And of course we can't care how that public money is spent. So it is a great task at the Ministry of Administration to simplify this system for us, to be more transparent, to know what our rights and obligations are, to know in what way to solve it because this way through a small article or through two articles that we will discuss twice because we have to listen to the opposition, but also our desire to discuss each law in two readings, even if we have two articles, I think that there is indeed a great space and time for you to really do so, so that we can avoid such discussions here in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33067	Thank you. We're done discussing the Association Act. I would like to request the representative of the Ministry of State Secretary Michael Škarica's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33068	Thank you, Vice President. I thank all respected MPs who have contributed to their constructive debates and proposals to bring some of the problems that we may not be aware of to ourselves. In this final address, I would like to underline the following, the amendments to the law as proposed will certainly not generate any legal uncertainty. Several times that question has been withdrawn here, so I wouldn't want that message sent. The amendment of this law will not generate any uncertainty in legal traffic or any other communication of associations with anyone. The administrative discharging of the economy is one of the main components of the government's recommendations, the amendments to the necessary laws will aim to reduce the use of the seal. Only the use of the seal is not subject to regulation of this law, this law allows the association to adopt its own statute without the need for detailed description of its own seal. It may still be needed in legal traffic where this has obviously become relevant to the extent that things do not work differently. But even if we were to suspend the use of the seal tomorrow and leave such a provision in this law, all associations would still have to have a stamp if for nothing then that I could describe it in my own statute. So, the law's intensities are clear to remove one of many, we didn't even claim that this solves all the problems of the legal traffic of associations or their financing or nothing. But we're starting with what's in our jurisdiction. It is in our jurisdiction to regulate the content of the statutes of associations. With this, we remove one difficulty, one barrier, one by ourselves, the excessive provision that these statutes must have under the applicable law, which is really not necessary and does not endanger legal traffic and legal certainty. In fact, the debate took place for me fully understood about the system of financing associations, their transparency, etc. All these issues are really important, but they are not matter that this Law on Associations not only in this proposal for its amendments, but in any other amendment can regulate. Associations are not founded as I see many implicating themselves to do public-interest jobs. For that there are state bodies, local bodies, public institutions. Associations are set up to promote the interests of those who set them up. Such interests can be compatible or complementary to the public interest and are often so. But that's not why associations are founded. Associations are a way of civil association designed to promote the interests of its members. I say again these interests can sometimes coincide with public, local, state-interest and then, in this respect, and in this dimension, they can apply to different funding programmes by the public authorities. But those are exceptions. Certainly a large number or most of the 53,000 associations are not set up to carry out public-interest tasks. We are actually problematizing and discussing here a small number of organizations that act primarily for promotion, to promote the interests they want to become public, for which they want to become actually changing some public policies, public authorities either at the central or local level. These are all issues that are not the matter of regulation of this law. The Law on Associations regulates or norms only the status of questions of associations. Since the Constitution guarantees citizens the right to association, the Law on Associations must neither be explicitly restrictive nor restrictive. Citizens should be left with sufficient freedom to join together and in the way they wish to do so unless they explicitly violate some legal norms, constitutional rights and constitutional freedoms. And that's exactly what this amendment of the law allows. In some ways, it is liberalized, at least in one dimension, but it is liberalized and it only facilitates the establishment and functioning of associations. Here, once again, I thank you all for your attention. I thank you for your discussion and your suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33069	Thank you. We have two replicas on your final presentation. First replica Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33070	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, of course, we will, as I said, also support the bill on behalf of the club, and it would help us if you could show yourself about the proposal for our conclusion on behalf of the Government in order to facilitate our decision-making tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33071	You want a reply to the replica? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can study the request a little bit, so we'll give you a chance to do this here when Josip Djakić is a representative....
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33072	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, I can understand everything that this bill is modernising in business processes, but I cannot accept that it is any kind of savings in the business of associations, that any procedure which, by eradicating the statutes of provisions, will seem to contribute to any operationalisation, simpler business of the environment in the Republic of Croatia. That argument absolutely doesn't stand and it's totally meaningless to me and I can't accept it at all. I can't accept that nothing after the stamp will be in legal traffic. Why wouldn't it be an electronic signature? Every organization has its encrypted electronic signature that will put on every act it sends and then we're safe in legal traffic. This way I cannot agree that there will be no legal uncertainty very large because liberalisation is so terrible that 54 thousand associations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia so liberally with these 3 members that your mind will fit. It means so much the liberal ability to set up associations, their actions, and not a single revision can spend so much of its time controlling their spending, their implementation of the programme, their transparency in business and everything else. There is no audit that would arrive all these legal entities 54 thousand control with all those entities that are companies, public institutions owned by local self-government units etc. I don't think this was supposed to come for the associations, or if it was supposed to come at the end. But first of all, the signature by electronic means is what would replace the stamp.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33073	Thank you. Now I'm going to give the proposer's representative the opportunity to answer your line, but also this first question from colleagues, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33074	As regards the proposed conclusion, the ministry is shown in a way that the proposal for a conclusion is not really related to the proposal for this law, but refers to a specific administrative matter which is in the second degree resolution of the Ministry of Administration. In fact, it is an administrative procedure and an appeal procedure, and we cannot accept that although it was the Croatian Parliament, the political body is involved in a concrete administrative procedure such as could not be involved in a concrete court procedure. Thank you. Here's the answer to Mr. Bauk's proposal for a conclusion. As for my response to Mr Djakic's replica, for example, the Law on Political Parties are not, they are indeed not in their legal form, but they are very similar. In fact, it is also about bringing citizens together to achieve a common goal. For many years now, the law has not prescribed the need for the political party's appearance to have it or did not have it used or did not enter into the political party's statutes. Did that generate any legal uncertainty I don't know, maybe it is. I don't know cases, I'm not personally familiar with cases where the absence of such a provision generated any legal uncertainty. So, I'm recapitalizing what we've been doing for many years now for political parties, we've been looking at associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33075	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on amending the Association Act. They'll vote when we get the terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33076	The next item is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Associations, first reading, P.Z. No. 98. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. The draft law amending the laws on associations is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law.’. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. With a majority of 117 votes for, 6 abstentions and no votes against, the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The SDP representative club proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the following Conclusion: "It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Administration to resolve within 30 days the appeal of the Association of Volunteers of the Croatian Defence Forces of the City of Varazdin, the County of Varazdinska, based in Varazdin Franjevci Square 7, in the following text: Association, declared for the solution of the State Administration in the Varazdin County of the General Administration Office. Class: UPI232/15-1-381, Ur. No 2386/01-03-16-8 of 14 January 2016." During the debate, the proposing representative did not accept the proposed conclusion. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion tabled by the SDP Representatives' Club, which the government does not accept. Please engage, let's vote. The vote is over. I find that that conclusion did not come to a sufficient majority since 79 MPs were against it. Representative Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33077	Mr. President, I'm not looking for an apartment, but I'm asking you when the vote is over to allow me to address five minutes from the pay phone when, because of the rejection of this proposal, the conclusion when it's all over so whoever wants to listen to me can.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33078	You can ask for a break later, then you'll get five minutes. Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33079	Thank you, Mr. President. Unless, I didn't realize if he was looking for a SDP break? ... If he asked for a break then I, too, on behalf of the HDZ club, also seek a break on the same topic after the vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33080	We're going to the next item on the agenda. It is - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Personal Name, First Reading, P.Z. No. 97. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I'd like to ask Mr. Michael Skaric, State Secretary at the Department of Administration to give us an opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33081	Thank you, Vice President. On the table is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Personal Name. Legal intervention, however, is somewhat greater than in the previous legislative proposal. The personal name law was adopted in October 2012 and entered into force on 3 November 2012. The provisions of that law regulate the procedure for determining and amending the personal name of Croatian citizens. The personal name of the child shall be determined by the parents by agreement and, if the parents have not agreed on the personal name of the child, the personal name shall be determined by the competent Social Care Centre within 30 days of the date of application of one of the parents. However, the same law did not prescribe treatment in the event that parents did not set the child’s personal name within the legal period, so it was not about the situation that they did not agree on a personal name but did not determine it at all. So by drafting a proposal for this Law, we propose a commitment to the parent to report to the Centre for Social Care in this case to determine the child's personal name. That's one change that's proposed. Next change. The same law stipulates that marriage mates can return to the last name they had before marriage within a year of ending their marriage. As the Life Partnership Act of the same sex was adopted in 2014, we propose this Law to allow life partners within a year of the end of their life partnership to return to the last name they had before the conclusion of their life partnership, and in this respect to be equal with their spouses, i.e. to enable them to return to their last name in a way as well as their spouses. The law also provides for a process to change the name of a minor child, and that if there is no agreement between parents on a new personal name of the dispute between parents, the Centre for Social Care is resolved. So far, there's been a little discrepancy. The new Family Law of 2015 determines that the court will decide in an extra-parity procedure which of the parents will represent the child in the administrative matter, given that in a specific situation it is a matter of non-compliance with the provisions on the competent authority which resolves the disputed parent is proposed to comply with the provisions of the Personal Name Act with those provisions of the 2015 Family Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33082	Thank you. We're moving on to debates on behalf of clubs. The first club to report for discussion is the Living Wall, Ivan Vilibor Sincic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The second club is MOST independent list representative Miro Bulj. I don't see him in the hall. He's losing his right to debate. And the third club, SDP Representatives' Club, is represented by Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33083	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief. The SDP representative club supports and welcomes the amendments to the Law on Personal Name proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we are pleased to see the provisions of the Personal Name Act brought into line with the two laws adopted during our Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33084	This was very effective and fast. Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the HDZ club representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33085	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here I am expressing my satisfaction that my colleague, Bauk, is going to support this proposal to amend and supplement this law. So the secretary of state has very extensively exposed the changes that are being made here. So three amendments that I would say are important because they are not foreseen in the applicable law. As the secretary of state said, so it's a change when parents haven't named the child at all. Therefore, that within 30 days of the submission of a request from one parent, the name of the child should be proposed if they have not or have not set a child’s name at all, the obligation of the parent to report to the welfare centre in order to determine the child’s personal name. Furthermore, this law provides for the possibility, it is possible for marriage mates to be able to submit, within a year, a request to return their last name to the last name they had prior to the conclusion of the life partnership. Since the Life Partnership Act was passed later than the Personal Name Act, and the Life Partnership Act also proposes a change of last name, this is in a way, I will not say harmonisation, but here is one possibility given to life partners that they can return in the same way as marriage partners to the last name they had before the conclusion of the life partnership. And the last change in this law refers to a change in the name of a minor child. So the personal name of a minor will change at the request of both parents, but in the event that one of the parents does not give his consent, a change in the name of the minor will be brought by the competent authority for the custody work, so far. However, as the law was later passed in 2015, the Family Law is in line with Article 100 of the Law. A family law that determines that the court will decide in a non-partisan procedure which of the parents in the administrative matter will represent the child. Therefore, this particular situation is about the non-compliance of the provisions on the competent authority which resolves the dispute of parents, and therefore the amendment of this law is proposed. So this law has, as the secretary of state has said, slightly more changes than the previous law we discussed, they are useful and I would say that the law will be more applicable in practice when these amendments are adopted. In the end, all I have to say is that the HDZ Club will support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33086	Thank you for the debate. Arsen Bauk decided to update his original debate with a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33087	Comrade Lukac, you didn't hear me very well. I not only supported but supported and welcomed the amendments to the law which is further because if Mr. Zekanovic had now been in the hall he would probably have opposed these changes to the law. Otherwise, the Personal Name Act is the first law that has been the entire proposal of the Ministry of Administration since I led it and came to the Parliament and the first reading looked very similar, so the opposition representative then former Minister Mlakar welcomed and supported the law, made some remarks that we normally adopted between the two readings to discuss in the second reading the exact opposite of what he discussed in the first reading. So it might happen with another reading and this law, but I don't think it will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33088	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33089	However, I do express my satisfaction that you agree with the amendments and additions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33090	Thank you. We have another debate, Gordan Maras. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to argue at this point. Do you have the final word? There isn't. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate, so we'll probably vote tomorrow. Comrade Bauk, you're on your way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33091	I'm reporting for two reasons. The first is that we'd like to know if we're going to vote tomorrow so we can tell the new representative to come to the session. And the second is why I would like to formally ask for a recess if it's my only business opportunity to take note of the Secretary of State's response to their position on our conclusion, but I can do it tomorrow before the vote if I'm allowed by the President of the Parliament, so please respect that when it does, it doesn't have to now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33092	Okay. If I get it right, then you'll be looking for a break tomorrow morning and you'll be clear about it. Thank you very much. I'm closing the session today. Tomorrow we start at 9.30 traditionally with a break and continue with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privilege and Determination of Compensation. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 1625 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-03-09-0.u33093	We're moving on. After the vote, they asked for it. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Personal Name, First Reading, P.Z. No. 97. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Personal Name is hereby adopted. All objections and proposals from the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Please engage and let's vote. The vote is over. I find that the majority of votes 120 for, 3 abstentions and no votes against were reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
