ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u38609	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break in order to warn of the non-transparent and harmful lending of Agrokor by the Adriatic Bank's rehabilitation administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u38610	Okay, fine. A fellow Downhill.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u38611	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, I demand a break with the theme of electing the President of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u38612	Thank you. And colleague Vlaovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u38613	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HSS Club, I'm looking for a break on the issue of agriculture. Namely, we have a harvest coming and no one cares about farmers and the purchase of agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u38614	Thank you. Are there any more interested? If I don't take a break until 9.45, 9.46 minutes, so about. It's 9:35 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The first is on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u38616	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to talk to you about the non-transparent and harmful lending of Agrokor by the Adriatic Bank. The Adriatic Bank is the parent bank of Sibenik-Knin County, whose core capital is 50 million kuna, has 16 businesses in Sibenik and in the wider area of the county, one in Zagreb, one in Split, 205 employees, and is the main lender of the local population. In 2015, the Bank was in huge debts amounting to as much as 846 million kuna, and the State Savings Insurance Agency put into the bank a financial management that therefore tried to settle the debt. In light of these developments, it appears that this small but also devastated bank has credited Agrokor twice, giving credit to the company under the condition that there is no guarantee that this money will be returned. So it was in December 2015 to 2016. The Adriatic Bank paid Agrokor a 52 million kuna loan to the bank's core capital, for the bonds issued by Konzum at an escort rate of 7.60%. Although the loan was not recovered and had to be settled during 2016, the Adriatic Bank again approved by the end of 2016 the purchase of 52 million kunas with the escort and by the deadline of return by the end of 2017. So she totaled 104 million kuna. It is therefore indicative that the Adriatic Bank in a state-sponsored recovery and under the direct authority of Minister Zdravko Marić approves the placement of Agrokor's bonds in full awareness of the very real danger that the over-indebted Agrokor will not be able to repay the new credit line. When this information was leaked to the public, the Sanitary Authority suspended three bank employees and according to unofficial data it was about the Presidious Chairman of the management of Ivica Jappi, and Mladen Lučev and Radi Stupin. The bank doesn't want any information from the public about these suspensions, no credit information, as well as any information on who could buy the Adriatic Bank. Since the Adriatic Bank is therefore rescheduled by state money and the fact that, therefore, the direct supervisor is the Ministry of Finance, it is very difficult to accept the fact that the information that I have cited is a business secret, i.e. there is no public interest in publishing them. I recall, among other things, that in this bank, the former administration was arrested on suspicion of economic crime, early this year and that former management president Ivo Shinko, deputy management president, member of the administration and one construction contractor from Međimurje County were then detained. The question is therefore why is the truth about the situation in the Adriatic Bank hidden, and how is it possible for the bank under the supervision of Minister Maric to lend Agrokor even though it is clear that the money loaned will never be seen? Among other things, this information may refer to the question of who approved Agrokor's Christmas loan, how did pension funds give 750 million kuna to the valueless shares of Ledo? Who is playing with the fate of Croatian citizens and who is this great protector of Ivica Todorovic in the government? These are all questions that the answer in the main knows, but someone in our government obviously likes to play hide-and-seek.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u38617	The second debate is the esteemed colleague Robert Podolnjak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u38618	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The theme that I took on behalf of the MOSTA Representatives Club is the choice of President of the Supreme Court. The president of the Croatian Parliament himself, after the elections, said that one of the important tasks of the Croatian Parliament in the time of the summer break was the election of the President of the Supreme Court. To remind you, the current Supreme Court President, Mr. Hrvatin, was elected in 2013, I think he took the oath before the then president on 21 July and that his term of office expires very briefly. This means that there is an extremely short period ahead of us, for this Croatian Parliament to elect the Supreme Court president. Let me remind you, according to Article 119. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, president of the Supreme Court, is elected with the prior opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the competent board of the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the President of the Republic, and is elected and resolved by the Croatian Parliament. So, at this point, I expect the proposal of the President of the Republic after that the preliminary opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court, then of the competent board of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee of Justice, to come to the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Just to remind you, four years ago, on 10 June 2013, the Committee on Justice had already considered and given its preliminary opinion on the candidate proposed by the president at the time, and it was Mr. Hrvatin. We're past that deadline now. It's summer break in a month. We don't have a candidate for Supreme Court President right now. The only thing we can read is that certain consultations are being held with the President of the Republic. However, the fact is and it is not since yesterday, it is so unfortunately the Constitution is undernourished that we have a very non-transparent procedure and process of electing the President of the Supreme Court and that it is the fact that in fact many other procedures are far better arranged than this, the main persons of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. What we want to say here publicly is actually to appeal that this procedure must be completed by the summer break. We can't meet in a situation where we don't have a Supreme Court president. I would also like to remind you that the President of the Supreme Court is the position of the President of the State Election Commission. Furthermore, we have on the agenda reports from the President of the Supreme Court only two years back for 2015 and sixteenth, and it would be good to discuss these reports while the current term of office of the President of the Supreme Court is Mr. Hrvatin. It is also a fact that we would like to point out in the club of the Independent Lists that we expect this procedure to be transparent as soon as possible in a way that includes representatives clubs in this Croatian Parliament in order to ensure that the proposal that will come from the President of the Republic will enjoy the support of the vast majority or perhaps or should be accepted by consensus in the Croatian Parliament. The fact is that the election of the Supreme Court president has not been determined, that it must be voted on by a qualified majority. But it would be very good if we could vote that person by consensus if at all possible. And we therefore urge this procedure to be more transparent, that the proposal of the President of the Republic come as soon as possible and before the General Session of the Supreme Court. That the person who will propose in principle is one of the judges of the Supreme Court and that we would like to see this as the option that we will declare in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u38619	Thank you, too. Third Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, distinguished colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u38620	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, I asked for a break to discuss problems in agriculture, food production, what we should talk about daily, about what people live on, not about politics and various games. Namely, we have before us a harvest of agricultural products, one of the most important agrotechnical measures and the first arrival of our agricultural producers of barley harvests, rape oil and wheat. The key question is what position our agricultural producers are in. In fact, more than 10,000 family farms are looking for or asking Agrokor and Agrokor-owned companies. They still haven't been paid all their claims. It has been announced from the Agricultural Chamber that about 30m euros will be paid off these days. So I appeal to the government and the ministers to rush it, because that money has been waiting for our agricultural producers for a year and more. The harvest comes to them, they need to be prepared, and they don't know if they're going to get it or whether they're going to have to hand over their crops, their wheat, their barley and their oily tail. The key question is whether Agrokor, or Agrokor-owned companies, who are owners and silos will appear as purchasers of agricultural products. Whether these silos are safe for the reception and acceptance of their slaves, or as for those in Djakov, they will be cut off from wheat and money. Who's going to be the Redeemer? At what price? Last year the ransom price of wheat was below one kuna, this year our peasants are asking it to be at least kuna and 20 as much as the cost of production. Whether the code and rules on buying-in will be changed again at the expense of family farms and our peasants. What is crucial is that we obviously as a state do not know or want to organise food production enough for the needs of our population. Last year, wheat harvested at 160,000 acres last year, was heated somewhere around 98,000 hectares. More than 60,000 acres is a drop in production. What's he saying? That our agricultural producers aren't interested anymore because the state isn't protecting them. No one stands behind them, they're left to these import lobbys and the market as we like to say it. But it's not a market, it's a monopoly of certain companies. People, we import bread. What kind of state can't organize bread production for its citizens? More than 10,000 tonnes of frozen bread is imported into Croatia through trade chains and only... in their stores. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That way, we're not only destroying the peasants and our agricultural production, we're destroying the dairy industry. How many jobs is that? And when you hear information that more than 60,000 tonnes of frozen products, pastries, pastries, breads, cakes imported, more than 117m euros, but it's not an alarming fact that we all imagine how to stop these imports, how to prevent the destruction of agricultural production. And everyone's mouth is full of Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema, and this is how to preserve life in that village in that rural area, to ensure production, purchase and placement of agricultural products and the price at which that producer will be able to cover the cost of production and living. Have we secured and done that by now? We didn't. It seems to me like we've built a hydrocentral without power lines, and so is our agricultural production without a network in the purchase and placement of agricultural products. It is a shame that the culture which is more profitable and which has proved more pervasive in recent years, which is the oiled tail and therefore has sown 10,000 acres more in last year than the previous one, that it is now bid again with a price on the cost of farmers, has already been announced to seek pre-contracts in March and February at the price of 2.60 2,50, 2 kuna and 62 and 50 to bring it down as announced at 2.20. Who dictates these prices to the harm of peasants, and why is the price coming down now? My people, let's not trade in politics, we see that the current government has dealt well with mandates and chairs, and I, and we of HSS, invite them to organise agricultural production, agricultural product placement and trade in agricultural products. That's what our peasants are asking of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40400	I thank all those who participated in these discussions. And now we move on to the agenda, as I said the first item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Law on concessions, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 75 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution, Article 171. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the motion for an act by dispatching the Parliament. This Law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading, amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session, and the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. He would now ask the representative of the representative of the esteemed Zeljko Tufekčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40401	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs and parliamentary representatives, you have before you the final proposal of the concession law. The proposal for a law in the first reading in this House was discussed in March, and this final proposal of the law respected the debate at the time and most of the proposals that only heard or received. Also, the law is further harmonised inter-resorially during the re-government procedure we have implemented. And I think that, following all these discussions and proposals, in the final proposal of the law, we have really a good comprehensive and balanced law that will get your support and will be voted here in the Croatian Parliament. Since it has been 3 months since the first reading, let me briefly remind you of the basic elements of the law, the basic issues that the law regulates, the solutions that it offers, and ultimately the basic changes made in relation to the first reading. Therefore, the Treaty on concessions constitutes a general legislative framework in the area of concessions which regulates concession procedures, concession agreements, termination of concessions, legal protection in the concession procedure, concession policies, and other competition issues. A special so-called Sectoral laws, specific questions relating to concessions given for the activities and areas covered by those laws are regulated, and in the existing concession system the same directly linked to this roof law shall be addressed. Thus, the functionality of the concession system by adopting this legislation will not be questioned in any way. The main reason for the adoption of the new Law on concessions is the harmonisation of national legislation with the Regulation, the EU Directive, No 23 of 2014. It should also be pointed out that the current legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia in the area of concessions is largely in line with the new provisions of the directive in question, and in this sense it can be said that the provisions of this law are, in fact, further alignment with the rules laid down in that Directive. In a significant part, the Republic of Croatia has already implemented the provisions of the then draft directive, which was subsequently adopted. Therefore, we can say that the existing legal framework in the area of concessions is very much in line with the directive, and that this proposal makes certain harmonisations resulting from the final harmonisation and adoption of the directive in question. It should certainly be pointed out that this legislative proposal was addressed to the opinion and was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and referred to the parliamentary procedure during June 2016, and that during the extraordinary parliamentary elections the same effected the adoption of this new legislative act, the Ministry of Finance again carried out further consultations and coordination with all stakeholders during November and December 2016 in order to make such further improvements to the normative solution of this law. We believe that this law prescribes a balanced flexible legal framework for the award of concessions, which will ensure effective and transparent access to the market to all economic operators, as well as effective legal protection that favours public investment in infrastructure and strategic projects. It is also important to stress that the Law on concessions clearly sets the role of the Ministry of Finance as a public legal body, which implements the concession policy. In particular, this means that it represents all measures and activities and aimed at establishing and maintaining an effective concession system, in particular control of the implementation of concession contracts, the management of concession registers, the participation of the Ministry of Finance's representatives in concession procedures, the monitoring of the implementation of concession agreements with the characteristics of the public private partnership, education, and the monitoring of international practice in the area of concessions. This Proposal for a Law on concessions also introduces several newspapers in relation to the existing, applicable law, and I will highlight them several. The first thing is an administrative contract, so this bill introduces a newspaper in which the concession contract is defined as an administrative contract. In cooperation with the Ministry of Administration, which is responsible for interpreting the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, the DORH and the Legislative Office, it is undoubtedly established that the concession contract has all the characteristics of the administrative contract. In order to create conditions for the development of concession models within the scope of the PPA and to ensure the balances of the Contracting Parties and the implementation of concession contracts, this law allows for the negotiation of arbitration, which is not usually the case for administrative contracts. The same is foreseen for equating the position of foreign and domestic legal persons, since bilateral investment protection contracts allow foreign legal persons to negotiate arbitration, all of which should encourage investors to enter this area into concession contracts and concessions. It is further pointed out that the Law on concessions provides for three types of concession contracts and these are concessions for the economic use of the general or other goods, concessions for services and concessions for works. In the meaning of this Act, one of the significant changes in the area of concessions is the separation of provisions for the concession procedure above and below the threshold laid down by the Directive. Indeed, the practice has shown that there are doubts in the application of the provisions of the law primarily for concessions of small value. The proposed law provides for the application of rules below and above the value threshold laid down in the Directives in question, the award of concessions, the estimated value equal to or greater than 5 million 225 thousand euros. The normative solution provides for different concession procedures for concessions both below and above the thresholds contained in Chapters 3 and 4 of the first draft law. As long as the other provisions of the law apply to all concessions independently of their value and type. The new provisions are adapted to the specificities of the concession system in the Republic of Croatia which knows three types of concessions. So far, public services and public works have been recognised, but with a step away from public procurement, the same loss of public signs and, in its nature, includes a large part of the commercial activities for which so far it has been crucial that they are public. This law lays down the elements of the concession procedure, in which concessions for the economic use of general and other goods and service concessions are subject to the provisions of this law which are developed in specific sectoral laws, respecting the threshold, so that concessions above the threshold are subject to provisions governed by the public procurement law which apply in an appropriate manner and in this law. The law introduces the notion of a reserved concession in such a way that the concession provider can reserve the right to participate in concession procedures only to the protection workshops and economic operators whose primary objective is the social and professional integration of persons with disabilities, or may allow for such concession to be implemented in a specific programme of protected employment. The same will be regulated in detail by the provisions of specific laws which will determine the circumstances and the definition of those vulnerable groups which can be subject to the concession procedure decided by the donors depending on the area of concessioning. The law further strengthens the procedures relating to preparatory actions covering the jurisdiction of the concessionor himself, which is essential in determining the procedures and area of concessions. This ensures effective concession and recognition of all its elements in relation to the market interest or the needs of the State or local level which is relevant for the award of the concession. The preparatory actions constitute the basis for the award of concessions in which the provider will, on the basis of its expressed interest or the identification of the needs of different projects through preparatory actions, determine optimal forms of concession area, and thus demonstrate by a justification study or a concession analysis. The intention is therefore to enable the legislator through such a particular procedure to create even better concession arrangements and achieve value for money, or as much added value as possible. This law also introduces the obligation of the concessionor to recognise fiscal effects in the area of concessions through the expert commission and the development of the Justification Study, which may have negative effects on public debt or deficit, an excess of the general budget of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, and as defined in the expert commission's tasks, it is stated that the clear obligation to grant a concession is to recognise in the area of public infrastructure prior to the concession the potential to influence it negatively with respect to the public debt or deficit. The provisions of this Treaty on concessions also clearly state the mandatory reasons for the exclusion of economic operators in the participation in concession proceedings, as well as its clear anti-corruption significance, which is clearly stated as such. The procedures and notifications and the elements contained in these notices are clearly defined as largely contributing to transparency, but also to strengthening competitiveness in concession procedures, which is an important provision which seeks to achieve the principle of value for money in the concession system. In view of the fact that concession fees represent an important form of public giving, as a next step aimed at strengthening and improving the concession system, this law regulates more effectively and efficiently the conduct of inspection supervision by the Ministry of Finance. Finally, and what is extremely important is highlighted in relation to this proposed normative solution, we want to highlight another important newspaper that is governed by this roof law, which is the introduction of the concept of strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia in the area of concessions, which aims to further define and protect it as such. As a strategic interest, concessions for the construction and management of highways, construction and management of railway lines, transmission and distribution of electricity, construction and management of infrastructures for the transmission of oil pipelines, construction and management of the gas transport system have been declared a strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. For a particular concession recognised as a strategic concession, the adoption of a special law is envisaged and the Croatian Parliament can also declare additional concessions which such concessions are and consider them of strategic interest. In this way they sought to determine to a greater extent the handling of public good and strategic infrastructure and to further strengthen the handling of those with a clear competence of the Croatian Parliament. According to the first reading of the law, certain nomotechnical adjustments have been arranged to improve the legal text and the text of the reasoning of the law and to remove possible ambiguities of the application of the provisions which will be put into practice and have been an integral part of the parliamentary debate. Compared to the debate held in February, or March, we shall, in particular, set out the following. Therefore, according to the proposal obtained here in Article 3(1), the definition of concession has been added. In line with the proposal given during the debate, the Assembly also significantly reduced the amount of the range of criminal penalties that can now be from 2000 for the easiest to max 2 million kunas for infringements that qualify as the most difficult. While for a violation committed by a natural person, a craftsman and a person performing another independent activity shall prescribe a range of between a thousand and a maximum of half a million kuna for the most serious offences. At the same time, the amount shown in euro has been converted into kuna value. The final proposal for a concession law proposes a new concession regime for the economic use of general or other goods for which the procedure is determined depending on the amount of the estimated value. In the case of concessions for the economic use of the general or other good estimated value equal to or greater than the value threshold set out in the draft law, they shall be given by public procurement rules. In this way, it is made clear that concessions for the economic use of general or other goods are of great importance and are equated with concessions for services provided under the same principles. Further all objections by the Croatian Parliament were adopted in addition to part of the observations made by the Legislative Committee on Article 3(5) that it is necessary to further supplement the statement of the second sentence, which reads: "The amendment of part of the operational risk implies actual exposure to changes on the market." So that any potential estimated loss suffered by the concessionary is not symbolic or negligible. This provision has been transposed from the Directive in question and the applicant considers that the provision is clear and that it does not need to be further developed as the same is further defined in Article 3(6) of this Act. It is also not accepted to delete Article 89 of the Legislative Committee’s proposal to delete paragraph 2 which states that it is considered excessive, given the content of paragraph 1. However, Article 9(1) provides that if the supervisory procedure determines that the concession is carried out outside the scope of the concession contract, that is to say that the other person, the activity for which it is prescribed to be carried out on the basis of concessions, performs without concession or over-referencing the scope and content of the concession, the inspector shall adopt a solution establishing the obligation and imposing the payment of the amount of the special fee for the unlawful pursuit of the activity without concession. Therefore, that provision provides for the obligation to adopt a solution in the event of a non-referencing activity or to exceed the scope or content of a concession which determines the obligation and imposes the payment of the amount of the special fee for the unlawful pursuit of the activity without a concession and determines the concept of a concession fee in the further text of the law. However, Article 89(2) provides for the moment when the payment of the concession fee is due in the case of Article 89(1) so that that provision is not only not excessive but it is necessary to charge the concession fee. Finally, the full concession model and in accordance with the final proposal of the law shall be implemented on the basis of the public collection of tenders, i.e. a particular competition with a view to respecting transparency and in accordance with the principles of freedom to provide services of equal treatment and others. The draft law aims to further encourage the development of a concession institute in the context of project design and the determination of an effective framework with added value. The concession law is only a first step and as such provides a framework that will allow for further intensive activities in the design of quality projects. The successful implementation of the objectives set out in these laws will depend on the involvement of concession providers with close cooperation within the resolution bodies and the adaptation and co-creation of concession policies with interested investors. The new law allows for the clear treatment of concession providers and interested investors to an even greater extent. The law provides a transparent framework and clear legal protection in the percentages of concessions to all interested investors and participants in the concession process. In view of everything said and put forward, the Proposer expects support, the vote of law. Of course, we are still open to proposals that would also mean improving and improving this legal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40402	I thank the Secretary of State. We've even got 11 replicas, so it's a little surprising given his peaceful rhetoric, but let's. The first one is the replica of the esteemed colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40403	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear secretaries, the Law on concessions is one of the most important regulations in the legal-economic area. Today, however, we have a law in front of us that has 100 articles and has 300 times called for other legal regulations and other laws, which means it's so complicated, that so much cloudy water can happen in the Golden War is just the tip of the ice. About the maritime good, the ports, about the closure of the system where the Ministry of Finance is exclusively monitoring the whole process and the public is not, it's disastrous. Whether or not Minister Maric will also be excluded if the possibility of this, the application of this law, comes if the transfer of concessions to others is made possible by this regulation. You have made it possible to mean a number of irregularities, and so is the possibility that everything is done to harm citizens and local self-government, which is why more than 30 associations, cities and municipalities have requested to go into third reading, if the Law on Weapons could go into third reading, should have opened up a brief public debate to involve people, and it is evident what happens with beaches, concreteisation, ports, where only in Split-Dalmatia County 2 billion kuna is drawn from the pockets of our citizens in favour of the interest groups that favour this law. So, I have 30 associations, municipalities and cities from these areas, which are from all over the coast, which are seeking to protect them from usurping their good, because it should serve them well for the survival of young people, but this law is indeed a law which has only clouded to use our good, not for the benefit of all citizens but for the benefit of individuals, and the tip of the ice santa is the Golden War, it is well known to you, the public is known, as the concreteization of the Makarska beach where it is possible. Thank you very much. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40404	Answer? You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40405	Well, here's a little bit. So many times we've emphasized so far and during the opening debate that it's about roof law. On a roof law to which more than 20 other sectoral laws are bound, which will determine closer details in the award of concessions in certain economic areas. We have equally stressed, but this is indeed from the law and visible, that this legislative proposal, in a much more detailed, more precise, transparent way, prescribes the procedure for awarding concessions and the conclusion of concession agreements. Thus, it is precisely the aim of the law to make all the procedures and future procedures as clear and more transparent and competitive as possible and to allow equal access to all interested bidders and interested entrepreneurs who would report to concessions, and anything with the aim of avoiding any possible problems when granting concessions, non-transparency, bargaining, etc. The law is complex, comprehensive, but simply in one law it is not possible to prescribe all possible details that will take place on maritime good, transport infrastructure, municipal infrastructure, etc. I think the law, I repeat, is just prescribing transparency, in conduct, patterns that will be received by all bidders during the process, making a study of justification, predicting numerous, numerous details and procedures that have not been incorporated into the current law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40406	Second replica, distinguished colleague of Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40407	The Honorable Chairman. As a representative of the ministry, I would like to ask you one question about this, however, this law has been put on a relatively urgent basis, no matter what it is not by a hasty procedure, it was put a little earlier than anything else, so I would like to ask whether you as a ministry, because we should also problem the regulation on the concession procedure for the maritime good, it was adopted in 2004 and, namely, the activities for which concession approval can be granted are prescribed and adopted and amended by the minister. This Regulation has not been amended for years, it is also connected directly to this law, and in the meantime there have been a number of other activities, bungalow jumping, various sports competitions, concert events, film sets that are not covered by this Regulation and which are happening in the maritime good. Due to the absence of the same regulations and the occurrence of activities are either illegal or not occurring at all, and thus units of local self-government fail to collect significant revenues, so this is mainly about seasonal events or events that last from one to a few days. So regardless of whether part of the maritime goods for which the application is made and located in or outside the port area, the same regulation should apply. So I really want you to tell me if you're going to change this regulation, supplement and extend it to port areas, or whether the same is true in port areas, and as you can see, for 13 years, the regulation stands the way it was adopted, but many things have happened in the meantime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40408	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40409	Thank you very much. Just before answering this question, regarding the transparency of law-making, public debate, etc. So the public debate was conducted in accordance with the rules at the end of 2015, the law was published for a public debate for 30 days, however, the law was de facto three times past the government procedure and here for the third time was de facto directed towards the Parliament, because it was older in the beginning of 2016, but given the fact that extraordinary elections had not been discussed. So it's really repeatedly debated in public and inter-resorial, and here in the Parliament, and I think it was more than sufficiently presented to everyone and everyone has had the opportunity to make comments and suggestions to improve it. As far as maritime goods are concerned, we are aware of the problems of giving concessions and the general problems related to maritime well-being, these facts that you are talking about are accurate, of course, the harmonisation of the relevant and sectoral laws with this, the law, and I think you know that the Law on Maritime Good is unfortunately being prepared for a long period of years, not to experience the adoption here in the Parliament, but I think that a colleague from the Ministry of Transport will bring this end and that the law will be passed, and in order to solve all the problems and all the issues that happen among other things and all the concessions on the maritime good, but the other ministry, the other law and harmonisation among other things and harmonisation with this law should be addressed to a number of other issues that exist for the maritime good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40410	Thank you. Third replica, honorary colleague of Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40411	Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm joining my previous colleagues on the issue of maritime well-being. You have received from the Island Assembly probably remarks and suggestions. I haven't seen them, I haven't seen your answers about their suggestions, but it seems to me what you just said if it's a roof law, and the Law on the Sea Good has been waiting for years, it seems to me that there will be problems. The question is, where are we gonna take a bath at sea? concreteization and beach building. The local population remains with its guests without the sea de facto. I think you should in Article 8(4) have said what it is strategically, which are the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia from highways, railways, etc. I think we should install marine well-being in that article. Therefore, it is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and to include the local community in any case in the concession procedure on the maritime good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40412	Replication response, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40413	Well, like I said before, we're really aware of the problems of maritime well-being. And here, what I can say is that we expect the resolution ministry to come up with a new legal solution that will absorb these issues as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40414	Replica number four, representative of the bush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40415	Dear President, however, Bulj well noted that the government has resorted to transparent solutions by adapting legal provisions to individual interests or interests of a small circle of privileged investors, financial institutions and banks. As well as fellow Bulj, you have well noticed here and the role of Minister of Finance Maric. It is also noted that the Law on concessions which is one, as you have said, of general or roof law in the area of concessions, regulates the individual situations that have arisen in our recent practice, which are linked to Agrokor and related companies. So I want to ask not a question to you, but to Minister of Finance Zdravko Marić whether he promised himself to the Croatian public and to us representatives in the Croatian Parliament to exempt himself from the process of drafting the final proposal of the Law on concessions. Why would I ask that? Here I am talking specifically about the provision of article 66 of the final bill I will read for public reasons so that everyone should freely conclude which companies the Agrokor concern. Article 66(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that the conditions laid down in the first subparagraph of Article 66(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are met. To me personally, this provision sounds like a guarantee that water sources and other general goods for which the use of concession days under favourable conditions in the process of restructuring of Agrokor will be transferred cheaply to a future concessionaire beyond the general rules adopted on competition and in the area of concessions. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] But let the public judge for themselves in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40416	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40417	So here's the thing I can say that this provision of the law existed in the old law, so also in the 2012 law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40418	Fifth Replicated fellow Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40419	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Secretary of State, the first thing I would like to meet here, warn the public that yesterday we heard in my opinion Prime Minister Plenkovic's outrageous statement as if he were not discussing the Croatian Parliament, there are no interested in the debate. And I will warn him here that his ministers do not come to Parliament meetings and represent no laws. So I, Minister Marić, haven't seen him in the Croatian Parliament since his recall, or months before. So my message to Plenkovic is to take care of his ministers and his government, not representatives in the Croatian Parliament. There's no Minister Dalic, either. They obviously don't care about being here. And I would like to have around such an important law as the Law on concessions the minister sits here, because then we could ask these questions, then I could tell the Minister to tell me why he still concessions for using water are not in the same rank as concessions for rail transport, transmission of distribution of electricity, because it is a strategic resource of the Republic of Croatia and he deserves to move him from rank concessions on cablers, concessions in the field of sport, airports, etc. What my colleague Grmoya said must be something to take care of. At the moment Jamnica, i.e. Jana source in Zagreb County is one of the most valuable resources that exists within the Agrokor system. We must not allow and therefore I call here on Mr. Secretary of State to consider the possibility of taking the exemption from these concessions and to put themselves under the jurisdiction of a special law to protect the resources that Croatia has And I invite him to accept the third reading, because we simply won't be able to do it today. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40420	No response to the replica? Then let's go to the next one. That's the sixth line. Dear colleague Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40421	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to apply myself to my colleague, Grumo, on the subject of Article 66(4). It is true that Article 66 existed, however, it is interesting that an article of the same article is now being introduced. You refused to answer why, so now I guess that's precisely because by introducing this item, you would perfectly agree on the situation after you've implemented the restructuring in Agrokor or you have an explanation that introduces exactly this Article 466. Because, according to the above, this is a phenomenal situation precisely for example of concessions on water sources, where the concession for the source of water is very cheap and beyond all the generally acceptable rules in the competition can be given to someone else in the concession. So I'd like to ask you an answer, which is precisely why this item 4 is being introduced right now in Art. 66. when we know what the situation is in Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40422	My colleague, the secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40423	Paragraph 4, which you are quoting as you are referring to, also existed in the existing bill. So I don't see any connection or connotation that you're implying.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40424	Thank you. Replica No. 7, dear colleague Miro Šimic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40425	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, my question concerns an article that has been true so far, but here I am asking a question about its meaning. This is Art. 67, which determines the right to a concession. What I can say is that the name of the right in question, therefore, does not correspond to what is otherwise defined by the Law of Property and other real rights, but what I am interested in is meaning. So we have defined this article before, and now we define, that there can be a right to be held hostage in favour of financial institutions in the pursuit of credit. Now we have two problems for me. One problem is that, according to the information that I have and financial institutions, this right is very rarely used as a basic form of insurance, so a much more frequent financial institution, in addition to that right, requires other forms of insurance. And in my opinion, all those honest creditors and loan seekers can't find the purpose of some insurance, on the one hand, creditors, on the other hand, lenders, because this claimable right can't be used without the concessionr himself. So I ask you what's the point? If, for example, Someone raises a 30 million kuna loan on the basis of a hostage right, the bank will normally ask him for a second guarantee, in case he doesn't pay back that 30 million kuna, you leave it to the bank to seek a new concessionaire who is true, has to meet all the conditions that a concessionary had to meet before, so we give some public good to the bank that at some point it has, which in itself with that article, could not have been particularly protected. I do not see that this article goes in the interest of either the Croatian state, or the local self-government unit, or at the end of honest financial institutions, but possibly those who want to use this position to malversion, not by returning credit, bring to a blockade whether certain land, whether or not a certain beach That we can't use it until the bank finds a new concessionary. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Šimić.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40426	Thanks again. No response to the replica, or is there? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40427	Therefore, the right to concessions has been clearly regulated by a specific section relating to financial institutions, which is one of the usual business practices, which allow for the development and financing of different concession projects. In relation to maritime well-being, the Law on concessions in no case calls into question the strategic importance of the maritime goods themselves, but as much as possible by the provisions... The law is governed in a clear, unequivocal and transparent manner by the conduct relating to the concession procedure itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The specificities of concessions on the maritime good must necessarily be determined in the property as I have already said to the sectoral law, which states that eradicating the provisions of the law in its nature would lead to less attractiveness of concession models and methods of financing, which is the urgency of both the directives and this legislative act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40428	Replica number 8, dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40429	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we can therefore see that we can all agree that it is one complex law, not so many articles as it covers. Here is only if we touch the area of public procurement or public private partnership and given such a wide area, it is not ignored, these remarks that come from fellow MPs when it comes to maritime goods and the transfer of concessions, where big money is involved, and you yourself said in your opening statement, that, above all, the aim of this law is transparency, both with respect to the concessionor and with respect to the concessionaire, and above all, the citizens from whose resources are ultimately being financed and all that. What I wanted to ask you in this replica, and there were words about public procurement, there were words in the first reading, the core of this law, or whoever implemented this law is actually a professional commission. Today we like to call on the profession and we want the profession to have a primate against politics, but it can happen, and here some colleagues have warned that both the concession provider and the concessionist smoke to put it in the same horn. Now I'm interested, given that certain, let it be and the County Assembly appoints a professional commission from 3 to 7 members, you've made a fine finely elegant exit as the Ministry of Finance, you said you could be a member, of course it won't be, I don't know that there have been cases that were cases, that he was a member, perhaps so far if you know of such a case. I wonder how people who get some kind of journal, is it 150, 170 kuna, if they make a decision on millions of amounts how can they be independent? And I think this law should have been dealt with a little more seriously, but I think the way you've been listening to me now that I've been talking in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40430	Since the Secretary of State won't respond to the replica. The next is a distinguished colleague of Bunjac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40431	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that you are familiar with the objections to Articles 66 and 67 of the law authorising the transfer of concessions. It means essentially that someone gets a concession and that they immediately pass it on to someone who has the right to take the same concession to a third party. So basically if these articles of the law are properly interpreted, it seems that the concession can be obtained by anyone. So if someone does not fulfil the right to a concession takes a fictitious person, that fictitious person then transfers that concession and they exercise the same rights as the concessionary. Therefore, the complaint goes in this sense that there is no minimum legal period within which the concession cannot be transferred or pawned or cannot be transferred to a third party in this proposal. So how do you plan to prevent fictitious concessions or how do you intend to complete these laws before its final acceptance? I believe that these objections, which have come in writing to the parliamentary deputies, have also been given to you, and I believe that you and all of us would not want to see such cases as that of Bol in Brač where the concession was won by a company without income and without employees, and with the intention of leaving to business circles related to one party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40432	Thank you. 10th Replicated colleague Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40433	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to point out one extremely good provision of this law and I'm sorry that here listening to the other colleagues didn't notice. In fact, this is Article 15, which speaks of reserved concessions. This article allows the concession provider to reserve for protection workshops or economic operators employing 51%, at least 51% of disabled persons, so as to reserve the possibility of participating in the award of concessions. In this way, people with disabilities, so all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia, are allowed to have additional employment. So not only those who work in protective workshops but also other entities if they employ more than 51% of people with disabilities. This is extremely important, given that the protection workshops at times when I would say some old crafts are no longer current, when the protection workshops can no longer deal with sewing, etc. but everyone's rerouting to favors. This is extremely important as I said about hiring people with disabilities, here I commend, of course, as well as the whole law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40434	Thank you, too. And the last 11th replica of the esteemed colleague of Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40435	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm actually going to say something very specific, I don't know if you're going to be able to answer that, but I'm interested in whether this law will, once it's passed, solve the problems. So it's about concessions for water use. The village of Apatovec near the Križevci has springs of mineral and plain water, there is a filling room of water that works neatly and it is good to work, no one has anything against it, but that same village has no public water. It used to be with the company that worked the charger's office discussed by local self-government that they would provide and enable the connection to one source, so that the village could join the water supply. Now, according to my information, the company that bought that charger doesn't have much of a tendency to connect the village's water supply to that one source. I'm interested in whether this concession law solves the question of the termination of the concession contract for public interest? I know that at the Water Administration in Croatian Waters this job is done, so that there are no problems, so that people don't have to block the factory here's a very specific question, will this law solve it? One more question, also at the water concessions again. Is it normal for companies that have available public water supply to receive concessions on their own wells in their own backyards and use wells for which they have received the concession, on the other hand, a public water supplier cannot help himself, can not charge even the drain later?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40436	The reply to the State Secretary's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40437	So, on the question of Mr. Hrg, he would ask us to answer the question later, and regarding the questions asked before, and Mr. Bunjec's comment that I did not listen to his question.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40438	A colleague of Tufekčić is only a little bit, so you are in line with the replica on the replica. If you want to de-polomeze with other MPs, you, as a proposing, have the right to come to the pay phone and debate. So this is now a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I cannot grant you that. So you're right about the moment you evaluate the search for the word and then you can pollomize with everything that's said.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40439	Okay. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40440	We're moving on to the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40441	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are talking about the Law on concessions, it is one of the most important regulations in the legal-economic area. It is a word that affects and directs many economic values and all that God has given us from the sea's good, energy, water, agricultural land, forest. Therefore, the adoption of this law expects great caution but also the insistence on the transparency that has not been achieved so far. When adopting this law, MOST Independent Lists will draw attention to a series of abuses of concession systems especially those that... Witnessed, here recently, at famous Croatian beaches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All these beaches are directly connected to the political elites that govern both the county and the state level. Dear Secretary, this is a very serious issue, 30 associations, individuals and municipalities mainly from the island and coastal areas have sent a request to go with this into the third reading, to open a public debate because if it was possible about weapons, then the Law on Weapons can also be a very important issue that is very important for the local community, for the county regional and state, because the way to manage our good has led to the destruction of both the economic and economic system and the demographic image being disastrous. That's proof, Mr. Secretary, that I'm starting to convince you people here, that's all. our representatives and the entire Croatian people did not change Article 4 in Article 66. And you came here unprepared and there was supposed to be a finance minister who controls concessions, concession processes, complete and public with him, and that's the one thing that needs to be changed. Article 66(4) introduces a new concession item; concessions are transferred to a new concessionary. So in the competition someone gets a concession and you pass on to a new concessionaire without a competition, without any obligation, without being liable to the state tax, you are not required. So this is what we mentioned, it's primarily focused on very important processes that happen in Agrokor, which is water protection. Now Jana, our Croatian source will be able to pass on to whoever they want. You're unprepared. You've come here before the MPs to question a fellow MP. So here I am, your colleagues, being ruling, being an opposition, this is very important, this change item is very important, the secretary is unprepared and the minister is not there, only if he hasn't made an exception. Also, the publishing right, Article 66 of the concessionary, can mean giving a pawned right, a mortgage, a rise to our concession, to what he has received from us, from the people, from what God has given us, for example. He gave the beach a concession. And it's the bank at the moment when the bank doesn't meet its obligations is the one that manages and waits to be the one to award the concession, in which way we teach our well-being to the banks. For this reason, I would like to ask you once again to base the Archduke Conventions where all our citizens, and that is the fundamental European principle to which this Government is called, all citizens have the right to decisions and public debate directly if there is even a referendum on the environment and public good. And we have an example that the Split Association has sued and won in Geneva means the foundation of the Archduke Convention. This is good for everyone we're discussing. I said what good, and secretary you came here unprepared, which is embarrassing that you can't give an answer on the key issue and key changes, which is Article 66 and Article 67. So based on that, here's another call to go to the third reading of fellow MPs, we're the ones who decide, to go, the people chose us, the people delegated us, gave us the mandate to go to the third reading, by opening a public debate from something shorter, we don't need to be long because we see that all these associations are ready, that they've already sent a number of memos, so we can do it and protect our good. Here, as a first request for this legislative proposal, the Most Independent Lists must stress that all concession contracts are made publicly public and that their publication is prescribed as a presumption of the validity of those contracts. The proposal for a concession law defines the Treaty on concessions as an administrative contract. In the Croatian right of the administrative contract, it is concluded exclusively in the public interest. Since the public interest in the concession contract prevails, it is necessary that the conclusion of these contracts and all their application be made public and made available to all citizens continuously. We also require that all concessions be made public as well as all documents made available by all participants in such tenders and that the assumptions of validity from the tender itself and the contracts in the concession are so prescribed. Why do we insist on that? Madam representatives, let us remember the beach Zlatni rat, which is recently cloudy, concessional contests, but it is only the top of the santa lega, it is the same with the concreteizations of the Makarska coast, it is the same with the port in Split, with ports and port administrations that manage both county and state port administrations, which is the jurisdiction, it is the same with the concreteisation of our entire beaches as for example, here I have now news that it is concreteized and in Podstrana, right now it is ready for the beach to be concreteized, not arranged, we are all for editing. So our maritime well-being is well destroyed and we've seen how concessions are assigned to the Golden War. Which company and how? And we need to have public insight into all these, in competitions on these concessions, and competitions and concession agreements because in this way the public knows absolutely nothing and mainly local self-government. We here by this law where we are called in 100 articles have 300 references to other legal regulations and laws, to other laws, regulations, but nowhere is it written in parentheses of which law, it is only laid down by other law. Here you can see the law, look, so 300 times is called, so the law is so much fog, that it continues, concessions to draw money, not to benefit citizens and local self-government. It is, the Golden War was conducted as an ice santa, the tip of the ice santa, in this measure of rough and cloudy without public control, to make it possible to take away this beach, not only by concession, but by a company that is without kuna, on the account, without any employee, only had a plan to invest 75 million kuna on the beach Zlatni rat. You know what they'd do and what they could do on the beach? Putting on chairs and picking up money. And of course there's local self-government and citizens that have reacted to how they should react. That someone on the side who has absolutely nothing to do with that activity to get that concession, to our wealth and that money goes in their pocket. Calculation only in Split-Dalmatia County in the area of port, maritime good, experts calculated 2 billion kuna to go to harm Split-Dalmatia County. 2 billion kuna. Let's look at the Split beaches, but so is Zrća to Gruž. So... Lapuda, excuse me, Lapada. So our entire fortune, our entire beaches usurped and not in the interest of our citizens. Our proposal follows through a series of legislative experiences, examples of the relative legal order of European countries that are prevented by such robbery. In such a way that the contract on public private partnership concessions is valid only if they are fully published together with all the contributions and at all times accessible to the general public, which is not now. Now only the Minister of Finance has the opportunity to control it all and he's not here. I'm sorry that he's exempt himself from this very important law, where the public is looking at us and expecting us to bring what's best for local self-government, for the entire Republic of Croatia. The second reason why we insist on publishing the contract of concessions as assumptions of its validity stems from bad experiences with the management of contracts in the General Tax Law. I repeat, the administrative contract is concluded in the public interest and according to the proposal of the Law on concessions, so should be the concession agreement. Allow me, however, to remind you that things are about this contract on the General Tax Law. To date, it is not known the exact amount of the Agrokor tax debt, according to the Republic of Croatia, but in public and professional discussions, the figures of several billion kunas of which part of the waste and the contribution with pension insurance workers are mentioned. When some of the media requested data from the tax administration, the tax administration found that it was a tax secret because an administrative contract was concluded in this regard. Imagine, a contract that was concluded in the vast or exclusive public interest, it defended the disclosure of tax data affecting tens of thousands of our citizens. So that the same thing would not happen with concession contracts, i.e. to make nominal contracts in public, public interest, which do not have access to the public, we demand that the publication, and hence their gradual availability to the public, be a presumption of validity. Furthermore, let us remember that recently in the public debate we had a National Port Development Plan with very unusual and significant plans with various investors, allowing for the acquisition of ownership of maritime goods in Croatian ports only to be well burdened by mortgages. The U.S. Department of Maritime Affairs has shown a clear intention to take the path... concessions made possible for certain persons... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] general and public goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today it happens with beaches, seas, springs, water, forests and as the gentlemen who have taken power soon will be privatized by the air of the atmosphere that we breathe. In order to preserve the general and public goods of this cloudy and disguised form of privatisation grab, I demand that the concession law be laid down provisions prohibiting any form of real and compulsory burden both the concessions themselves and the goods over which the concession is based. We also demand that the saying prescribe a ban and the inability to direct and indirect expressive and hidden manner, privatise the goods that are given concessions by either the concessionaries or the third parties. I could say a lot more in the end. But I'm going to say that this law allows someone without financial capacity and investment promises in a documentation tender to come to our benefit. This is worse than privatisation. This is a robbery. Therefore, MOST, once again will ask you to go into third reading in public debate, we have more than a dozen amendments ready, honourable secretary, because of a very important law not to let what happened in privatisation happen this is just a continuation, this Law on concessions that has now come, a continuation of the robbery as I have said what was in the privatisation and conversion to include these 30 associations, cities and municipalities of all kinds of public interest and to protect our good from water, forest, marine goods, energy. It's the only interest you and I have. Therefore, if we were able to go to a third reading law this law is much more important, this law decides on the fate of Croatia, numerous local self-government, regional, whole country, our youth that goes away because of those who take what does not belong to them. I ask that there be a third reading on behalf of the MOST Club and that a public debate be opened and that this law be settled according to what it should look like. and how all laws should be prescribed. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40442	We have eight replicas. The first is a distinguished colleague of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40443	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. So you're right that this law needs to be processed for reasons because the public is especially the one who is the most interested, so citizens living in the area of concession are completely excluded from the decision on concessionaries. Not only is it completely excluded, but it doesn't even know that concessions are being implemented. Here's a mention of the beach on Brač where the citizens didn't actually know that this concession was going to be awarded. So even that level of information they couldn't get, let alone that they could decide something about it. It is interesting not to mention, among other things, the criterion of the final price, therefore the services. So this criterion has been completely rejected, and it is also not used, so the criteria of public good access. So it can happen that the public good is actually privatized. And as President Varda mentioned, we can get into a situation, that citizens do not have access to beaches, that citizens do not have access to the source of water or other things that would involve one another and because of the mention in the Constitution, so that no one can monopolize them, or privatise them. That's all the questions we're supposed to get an answer on. I referred my question to the secretary of state, he didn't answer me even though he's here, so please, if you can comment on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40444	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40445	I agree with you that the decision on concessions was absolutely covered up and clouded and this law only confirms that. That is why it is necessary to give this in third reading, to open it to the public interested, again I mention here are 30 associations, cities, numerous cities and municipalities, local leaders from these areas asked to postpone to third reading. Because there were examples not so long ago in the Law of Weapons, that in the third reading. Because this is a law that essentially continues the possibility of privatization but now even greater resources like water, forests, energy, the area of energy, our wealth. The golden war is only the top of the pyramid. The golden war on the seas is the good tip of the pyramid. What is going on in Split, Makarska? It's concrete for miles and miles of our good. So people are disgusted, but they just can't react. So they're destroying and concreteizing a set of what's most valuable to us. But the fact is that there is an unprepared secretary of state here when he is not familiar with the amendment that took place in Article 66 of Article 4 where he is essentially able to continue an even bigger robbery was in privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40446	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vlaha Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40447	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Following your presentation, Mr. Bulj, on a concrete example, I will say that here is indeed in the interest of the protection of public goods, please gentlemen, if you can listen, ask for a third reading and with a naturally previous public debate. Why? Watch it now. This Regulation shall enter I will literally read the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports on the trail you said: “Concession can be fully transposed or placed in a sub-concession within the same range and under the same conditions under which it is also given by the concessionr.” Why is this even the subject of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports and why it is avoided to integrate it, i.e. I would like to propose to improve this Law on concessions and to put it into that law. If these relations were changed, that is, if only this Article 35 in this Law of the Sea were deleted, the concession on service and space with strictly defined activity would be defined, and not as so far that someone could get a concession and then, in relation to the concession, I would express myself in this way to subconcession or in relation to activity or in relation to space, so that you now have an example of abuse in the area, means a free zone at the port of Ploče and the Golden War, which is even fresher for us. And as well as the defined clear activities that are incompatible in a certain free zone, such as forwarding, agent, driver or warehouse activities, and when someone who took that roof concession let's call it conditionally stated and give in the subconceived unification under its influence all these activities and there is abuse and distortion of market relations. I therefore propose that this issue be incorporated into the Law on concessions. Of course, in the spirit of this, I suggest that we approach the resolution, or observation of this law, with a good public debate and, of course, with a third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40448	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40449	Thank you very much. So the concession law, whether on activity or on space, is essentially this concession law, these amendments are clouded. And we have 100 articles, 300 regulations, called for 300 regulations, and regulations and laws are not defined by the law, whether it is the Law on concessions on ports, no. It's just that it's written in the parentheses of the law. So this is fog, and the secretary of state, at this point he came here unprepared. Imagine how citizens interested in local self-government will know this, which is why it is necessary to go into 3 readings, to open up to the public what 30 associations, from the entire Adriatic and continent areas, are mostly down the coast, to open public debates and to adopt this law in the best faith for the preservation of public goods and the use of public goods for the purposes of local, regional self-government and the whole of our country. And if this is the way, this is the fog, this law will still be clouded by the Golden War, it's just the top of the pyramid of everything that's going on, which is why once again here's the proposal key to me... and amendments saved, but we think the tribal would include the entire public, all associations of interested, local self-government, where the area of concession is to be included. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, here is another secretary, I propose to us Assembly representatives that we go to third reading and go to public debate and pass a law to the extent that it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40450	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40451	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bulj, unfortunately I have to rely on a part of your exposure to the State Secretary's unpreparedness, because only two options are visible here. The first is to avoid answering why Article 4 is introduced. 66. which allows after implementing the restructuring of the new concessionaire to be very cheap and beyond all the generally accepted rules of competition to receive a concession or are you really here today unprepared in that case is not a problem for us to educate you. I'll give you the previous law. So you just tell me, in which part of the article Transfer of the concession agreement you see the procedure after the restructuring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40452	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40453	My colleagues would agree with you or the intention is to know, and he's not ready or this is the other thing you said, that he's a really unprepared secretary. This is a very serious matter concession is what should most seriously be taken and this is a law that can bring greater damage than privatisation, the Law on Privatisation of Negotiations. And he does more damage, this law must not be clouded as it is clouded. With 300 calls to other laws, and no regulations are included. Right at the start, when they do, it means it's cloudy. But the unpreparedness of the answer is around. 66th, and 67th shows either what you said or that you need to educate the secretary, or he knows and doesn't want to say, that it's the problems of our most important resources that should go who knows whose hands, such as sources and... Drinking water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40454	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40455	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bulj, you're with the citizens of Bola in Brač, prevented a non-transparent concession, perhaps one of the most beautiful Croatian beaches of the Golden War, I'm going to apostrophe, I read Alan Ford novel in one novel, Alan Ford, there is, they ionized the reality of the American, but since we have Alan Ford Government in one part of the episode, there is exactly a line where there is a beach for the rich and a beach for the poor. The beach for the rich is fenced with wire, and the beach for the poor is not really a beach because these people can't access that beach, they can't access the sea, and they're actually residents of that town, or that place. So is this law going to that Alan Ford version of the beach for the rich and the beaches for the poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40456	Here will be answered by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj about the uncle's not Alan Ford novel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40457	Thank you for representing me. A colleague of Sladolev's right, Alan Fordowski, only you know number one. Number one is the one who runs it, and here we have number one who knows who's running it. We've got an even bigger problem here. It's the ones who'll be setting up beaches for the rich and who'll take the beaches, but you're, you're managing number one in our Alan Ford government, that's the other way around. So these political elites that provide an example of the Golden War, as assigned, are being held in our government, in Alan Fordovska No. 1, as a doll in the end, and they run the government. And there's the key to the problem, because this is the most important thing that we all have the right both on the beach and on the maritime well-being, and on the water and that this triba be in the state, of course in the public interest, above all in our interest, it's the national wealth, it's the national interests. We can't say that if we get concreteized by the beaches, if we get fenced by the beaches that it's ours anymore, no, it's not Croatian, it's just theirs. It will be in this government as you said Alan Fordowski, of those who hold at the end of number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40458	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40459	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, let me continue, it seems to me that we also have Superhik in Croatia, and that's the guy who likes to drink, and he takes everything from the poor to give to the rich, here and there he shows up. So the theme of each concession is the contract and here in the law is very precisely defined, which are all the procedures to reach the contract and who all participates in making those contracts. Although it is not good that it is quite defined how these people will do it in view of their composition and since units of local self-government often do not have such a team that could do it. But what you have warned, and what is certainly not good, is that these contracts are mixed. So this law could also call a law on the mixing of contracts. Even the argument that the secretary of state here said it was and in the previous law is not logical because the changes are just being made to respond to the demand of time, so to change what is not good. So contracts are the ones that open jobs, contracts are the ones that can make money to paraphrase Archimedes when he said, I'd say like this, give me a good deal so you can see how it'll be a good entrepreneur. So in these things you should be particularly sensitive. And I'm going to mention, since I'm coming from Slavonia, what about the huge areas of agricultural areas that are now in the concession, what's actually going to happen to them? Although they do not touch this law as a roof law likely affects then and the Agricultural Land Act, will this agricultural land end up in my hands to say God like this and ask whom because agricultural land in Slavonia does not have enough. Many young families are looking for agricultural land so that they can stay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40460	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40461	Thank you very much. In addition, the Agriculture Act will be able to pass on to another person as a concessionary, and we know that Agrokor is also the owner. has a concession on a large part of the agricultural land and in Slavonia, therefore on this law, who knows who they will come to and whom they will choose to go without competition. Therefore, this law allows for a variety of interferences and you have well noticed that this is before the law on mixing than the Law on concessions. And indeed here I invite all people living on islands and on the coast and in Slavonia to press to open a public debate to go into third reading. And indeed those who have potentiated the main Golden War to the beach, to be well organized and that indeed the secretary, the minister, this government triba allow third reading and public debate to include all these proposals of these people living in the area and that it is a public good for all, and not just those mechanics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40462	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40463	Your Honor, Vice President. Here is colleague Bulj, our colleague Ivana Ninčević has proved that the secretary of state is unprepared, that he did not know that this item 4 was added in Article 66 which shows that he is obviously not even familiar with what is in the bill itself. Probably this bill was written in a tower such as tax reform, so we had to stop shutting down the IRSCOD. I'm here, so I was supported by my colleague, Lalovac, who warned me about reducing the tax rate of disproportionate property. They did it, though, to reduce the time limit in which it could be checked. We couldn't prevent everything that was designed in the tower, and we have here a situation now that through this article is trying through this non-transparent process of restructuring Agrokor to try our greatest wealth, which is water, to transfer some foreign capital funds behind which Deputy Prime Minister Dalic and Minister of Finance who both came to the government and in the past and this now willed man who has managed Croatia all these years. And I'm asking, not as you're asking for third reading, I'm asking for the full suspension of this bill or further procedure to pass a law that will protect all of our good ones, and I'm primarily thinking about water that is a strategic resource of the Republic of Croatia. It's obviously a matter of answering some kind of blurry interest, the secretary of state I don't believe he doesn't know what it's all about, maybe a man doesn't know, maybe the law was written like I said somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40464	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40465	Comrade Grmoi, I agree with you that the law. In the IRS is reduced about the disproportionate property is reduced so the number of years from 10 to 6 seems to me... on the last six. I personally didn't vote for that law at the time, but the fact of the trial was passed a law on the origin of the property, I was saying it while... yet. [[You don't understand what you're saying.]] It's the only thing that would be right and what would lead to seeing how to award the concession and how. As regards Article 66(4), this is essentially the amendment of this law, the transfer of the concession. concession rights to another natural or legal person, whoever you want and whatever you want. So the one you got in the contest, yes, secretary you're laughing, is exactly what the article described, if you've read it, if you haven't been familiar with that article. the item added. You didn't, you said the first reaction wasn't added. And what I agree now... is that this law is so manipulative that this law should really not be passed at all but made a new law that protects the public interest and not serve in the interest of individuals. I repeat again in 100 articles 300 references to other laws and regulations, and no law is written about. It's easy to check, here's a colleague you can take the law and you'll see. There is no reference to any law, Port concession law, Maritime Good Law, nowhere indicated. So this law is really to withdraw from the procedure and to make a better law or in the third reading to pass the law in the interest of changing what the tribune changes and to move immediately into making a new law that will be simple, but to be clear to every citizen and individual. And this one is not clear to our secretary of state either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40466	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Josipa Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40467	Thank you very much. I've been listening very carefully to your mind debate. You've been reading something someone wrote to you, and all along you've been saying that the secretary of state came unprepared, if I get it right. So I think that the entire MOST club came unprepared for this debate because if it had come ready then it would have looked at what their former Minister of Agriculture was doing on the transfer of concession contracts to the Government of Tihomir Oreshkovic, so they would have found that it was also in the past law as a possibility, so they would have determined that Podravka had transferred her concession contract to Studenec, and then from Studenec it passed to Radenska, Slovenian firm, so she bought the Czech firm, and now you're selling us a story here about article 66 that tells us about the possibility of transferring concession contracts. It means you're here ready. So you're charging your former minister with doing something he shouldn't have done and you're protecting the Croatian people. So how could you let that happen? Because you were in power at the time or because you are now in opposition, you feel that you can blur things out like this, the truth, talk wrong about the law, about concessions when you know it wasn't like that and that it's been there so far. As far as islands and islanders are concerned, there are 56 units of local self-government. And you claim that each should have its own value in its own resources. I agree with that, too, but we have counties. So far, the county has given dozens and dozens of transfers of concession contracts to local utility companies, municipalities, other legal entities. How is that possible if it wasn't in the law? So stop lying to this people, fellow Bull. Don't sell your friend Bull to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40468	The answer of the esteemed representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40469	I don't know who wrote this to you right now. Well, your secretary doesn't know article 66 that the fourth item is now added. Do you understand that or have you read it? And those fogs you want to throw away with this law, you as islanders seem to me, you should just be on the side of protecting the public good. But you're against it. But as far as the government is concerned, I didn't support the budget either. That's what you remember I didn't support the budget because this particular government and Minister Maric lied about being evenly developed, that it would mean development of decentralisation of funds. I didn't even support the budget. So you can't accuse me of that. Who wrote it to me? Zlatko Gervranja, your mayor. And now his follower Blaženko Boban for the Golden War, these are... They wrote this and said this problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Brcic, his deputy and Sosic. And all the services that carried out the concession at the Golden War, in Makarska that allowed the concreteization of a few kilometers of our beach. In the area of Stobreč now, here today is the concreteized beach, not arranged, concreteized. You're up for it. You're up for it. This was written to me by you know who I told the former mayor I warned your mayor who served only you, and that's why the islanders got up and you can't because in Allen Ford's government we have no. 1. but is the doll at the end of the team that received concessions on beaches and ports. [[Intruder Reiner: Please, let's not throw away.]] And please, when you're telling the truth, if someone wrote to me, he didn't write it. I was talking about this, about the Golden War here from this pay phone three months ago about the problem of awarding concessions, that's what you remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40470	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40471	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear Representative Bulj, generally on concessions. The eligibility of concessions takes into account public interest, environmental impact, nature protection and cultural goods, and the financial effects of concessions on the state budget, the budget of the units of regional and local self-government and compliance with economic development plans and plans of concession providers, concessions on maritime goods. What's good for the sea, we know that well, we can talk about ports and ports here. But they're built and defined in the past, the ports are mostly the ones that are defined and there's nothing we can change. But the newer moment is building on the maritime good, in the interest of tourism development as a strategic economic branch, of course in line with the development plans of units of local and regional self-government. Mr. Bulj, what do you think, many two should support the giving of maritime goods in a concession, building in the interest of tourism, and there we cannot bypass concreteisation and tourism is a strategic economic branch. I can tell you, a new resort was recently built and opened in the area of Rapca, a tourist resort, Girandella where it was unable to bypass concreteisation and the settlement is very attractive and it is strategic, economic interest. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40472	The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40473	Thank you very much, dear colleague Kirin, for this constructive question, indeed, the maritime well is good for all of us. And it's in the public interest to protect but the problem is the key to what in most local self-government, the island, the coast we don't have a certain limit of maritime good. So if local self-government wants its premises and plans to develop some kind of activity in, that it builds, it can't, it's not a certain limit of maritime good to award exactly concessions in this fog, i.e. in this mesthetar law, in order to award concessions to those who will receive concessions so that our beach or public well-being, maritime well-being, can be mortgaged and put essentially into perspective on bank management when they are not interested. So this is the question of whether the beaches are in the public interest, no concreteisation in the way they are now done in Makarska, as in Podgorica. I am no expert but there is local self-government, they have citizens who need to be given the right to a referendum, if ultimately citizens know best how to manage the local self-government of that resource. Not to be the main key of both the apostolic and the county that gives its political counterparts i.e. Those who reward with the blessing of Alan Ford Government and number 1 who eventually receive concessions. That's a fact. The Golden War is an eclectic example of that. So we need to enable local self-government to make decisions, together with the county, but the one that is most relevant, it is a public debate, and this law should be made possible because this law is disastrous, it should go into third reading, public debate and a referendum of locals living there. I think this is the best example and the best way to manage public good, because this is not only good for those who want to get concessions and money but good for all citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40474	Thank you very much. The next will be the SDP Representatives' Club, time will be shared by distinguished representatives Boris Lalovac and Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Today we are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on concessions, here we have already heard that this Law on concessions is a general roof procedure, regulation, which lays down the basic principles and rules and the resolution of specificity issues for a particular area or activities for which concessions are given is left to specific laws so on. sectoral regulations. Moreover, what is said here is that this law complies with the provisions of Directive 23 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of a concession agreement. The law also states that it is not a change from the past, meaning what kind of concessions are, and in relation to the past law, it is a newspaper that the value is, the value threshold has been introduced at EU level, it amounts to around 5.2m euros, and the procedure as a concession is given to that amount, and what is the concession procedure when the estimated value is greater than or equal to that threshold. Strategic concessions are also defined, impact on public debt, more detailed control of the inspection and infringement provisions is regulated, these are some important components which differ from that of the previous law which was also in line with European directives. However, what has happened here today is that what has happened in practice, what has happened in practice, in fact, is that not all directives, when they are put up as directives that are general, what is happening in practice, actually points to a certain concern that certain processes happen beyond this general roof law, where certain entrepreneurs, and we know that publically well-extended valuable resources of the Republic of Croatia, are trying to come up with this valuable resource, especially if we know that the Law on Maritime Good and Maritime Ports, which was last adopted in 2003, has not been harmonised for 10 years, means in 2008 or 2012, and then, in fact, most of all, refers to that part of the problem where the Treaty is then transferred to the concessions law and here, in fact, the biggest one we have heard, is the problem in the Law on maritime good and sea ports that does not comply with this roof law, and then arises there are certain problems, and then the issue in the matter of the above. However, there are certainly certain, now we will actually pass on certain articles of the law, which I would certainly think that the Proposer should consider, see that part, these are for example. Article 8(4) means that although maritime well-being is the most valuable natural wealth of the Republic of Croatia, it is not defined here as a strategic interest. I think it's a failure that's here, this morning it's already been about this speech, and we think it's a maritime good, and we know that it has a very high value, not only an economic value, but a very high value for people who live and work in this area that it should certainly be defined by the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and, under special care when giving such concessions, on the maritime good, that in fact it is specifically analysed and the effect not only for the local community, because the majority of the local community to which they relate, live near that maritime goods, actually affects their economic existence. Furthermore, Article 16(4) prohibits the business of direct or indirect interests of concessionors and competitors, however, infringement provisions do not provide for sanctioning such behaviour as well as sanctioning for non-reporting corruption and conflict-related acts of interest, and that is what has been said today when this problem occurred on Brač. Furthermore, Article 16 does not provide for the involvement of an interested public representing the public interest of the community, as well as the participation of representatives of local communities in the preparation of concessions as well as the decision-making process through the expert commission. Here is the part that is once again in the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, that most of the donors of these concessions are located in the counties, and their congregations, and local authorities, in fact, would like to manage these goods and get a certain part of the income being excluded and that is this part which is the most part of the problem that is not defined under this Law on concessions but in the second law, and the way in which that income is shared. The way you share that income, and I'll come back later. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: I think that it may be a little harsh and should define what a certain offense means, so that perhaps some people would not be excluded, if they have real quality offers and could contribute to that work, means what kind of violations these are, we see that later infringements are very detailed at the end of the law, and maybe they should be linked to this to small, easier and more serious forms of violations that people would not be excluded from these concessions themselves. Here, what is interesting, this is what is introduced, which is new in Article 35 of paragraphs 8 and 9, predicts that an innovative solution can alter the order of criteria for selecting the most favourable offer in order to take into account an innovative solution. Now this is a little questionable item, because the innovative solution that can now change the criteria is nowhere defined what an innovative solution is. We can freely interpret it and it can lead to abuse. Either clearly define what an innovative solution is or delete it. Because if you make this law possible and you put an innovative solution under quotes, then you can think about what chaos will be like in the definition of concessions, what one will individually define what an innovative solution is, which is not. And that's why it's purely friendly for you here to delete it or define it if you're going to complicate it during individual procedures. And we know how they are, can be innovative entrepreneurs when they want to get to the best part of the beach, then imagination does things. So let us not allow this part of the innovative solution to be affected by the score. Also here, the same speech of Article 35 does not define the question of the impact of the concession on the service price for end-users which is not necessarily part of the selection criteria. What can happen? When giving a particular concession price can go when you give it to a private person, it can go to heaven. It can increase three, four times, and it changes that price to the citizens, turns them on to the citizens, and you don't actually have it. What is it, then, is the benefit of such a public good if this price that can be multiple especially in water supply or some other very important parts for a part, for people living in that community. If the price increases three to four times, the question of whether it is then becomes public use in the public interest of these citizens is raised on you as the end user. And here it would be important that the price also to be defined for end-user would also be defined as part of the criteria. There's been a speech here, and I don't want any more details on articles 66 and 67. However, I think it is particularly important in Article 67 that it is actually a hostage right. When defining the criteria, that right should not be a criterion of whether someone I understood was actually colleagues who said that an additional fuse was actually put in place, that someone who does not have capital, who does not have a certain portion of the income to receive a concession solely on the basis of that hostage right that the bank will ultimately grant him. Because let's be honest. If the bank estimates, you can have very low income or insufficient capital or start a company. If she assesses that the right to be able to charge that concession is within the scope of the law, she will start to finance it. Now that's the part that we'd like to put in here as an extra fuse, so that someone can be, that he has to be physically beyond that hostage right. That he must have income, that he must have capital, that he must have a business, that we do not look at at all at the criteria of adoption, that this pawnright is the only one as an additional criterion. Because that's when it comes to what we were saying here this morning. If we do that and we put an extra fuse that you have to be financially favourable beyond that hostage right, I think this part of the hostage right is definitely going to try to improve one piece. Article 79 defines the concession register. Although the current concession register is available on the Internet, its publication is not in accordance with the Law on the right to access information because it is not in a strictly legible format. So please, this is a technical question, so please colleagues at the Ministry of Finance just to make this technical question about the register and the law on access to information, so to those who are interested in watching that register, to adapt it. However, Article 69 defines legal protection, i.e. defines, i.e. It is then to show the non-compliance of the Law on concessions and the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. Article 96 defines legal protection, i.e. define the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures as a specialised second step body responsible for resolving disputes in complaints concerning concession procedures. The second approach to legal protection in concession procedures on maritime good is found in the Law on maritime good and seaports, Article 27, which reads that the Ministry of Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is competent for all concession issues that should be harmonised for concessions. So one of you has a law where the second degree, so the complaints are solved by the DKM, and in the Law of Maritime Good, it's defined only by the Ministry. And in this case, it seems to me what was in the Gold War exactly the ministry seemed to me to be my own, and the concession law says it's DKM doing it. Well, then, in order for there to be no specific political decisions, if then the ministry had made some part of it, I think it's better to do it like the roof law said. And here very briefly perhaps even in the end. I think it would be good if we got the analyticals, saw that here somewhere around a billion and a half kuna we have annual revenues, to define what the revenue from the concessions on the maritime goods, to divide how much that revenue from the concessions paid by shipyards because they also pay one part, and how much concessions they get on this one we're talking about on beaches here, etc. Other maritime goods, then let's see this comparison of how much money is actually obtained from concessioning that maritime goods, to separate themselves from the shipyard because they have a completely different purpose. And then I think it could contribute much better to this debate. Now my colleague Arsen will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40476	Thank you. There he is. There's little time left for an esteemed colleague named Arsen Bauk. But he'll certainly make good use of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I have no doubt. Therefore, he did not discuss this law first as at least an interested working body of the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee. I know that Mr. Boric as a member of the board and Mr. Klaric would have had something to say. In my three minutes, I'll only stay on one small and smallest section covering the concession law, that's about the maritime goods. Desiring to know, therefore, the Croatian Parliament and the public who is already likely and familiar with the initiative of the island movement platform for the sustainable and responsible development of the Croatian island which has received the support of numerous organisations, the initiative of individuals of local self-government and political parties, some of whom are even from the ruling coalition and who have provided us with a request for the return of the Law on concessions to public debate on the subject of the adoption of a new Law on concessions which they consider extremely harmful in the matter of concession of maritime goods. The colleagues also sent certain amendments that we formulated and sent to the procedure, counterpart Goran Alexic and I, and the SDP Club also suggested that the third reading be carried out on this law. The Secretary of State is in one position that it must respond to the comments of the representatives and that to the most extent it cannot affect the changes because the main challenge and the main remark we could hear in this debate so far is the giving of concessions on the sea... which is governed by a special law and which is governed by the second ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is justified that non-confidential associations are the largest part of which are from the island and that part of the coast has also awarded concessions on the maritime good and therefore are held by those old folk sayings that are once burned and smoke cold. So the fact that the Maritime Affairs Committee, the transport infrastructure, did not discuss this law and it is important for an unresolved problem, for something that really after 12, 13 years should be defined differently, that there was some public discussion and public pressure that managed not only to change the decision of the county assembly, or to cancel it, but in one important county for HDZ and change the mayor's candidate, I think it is symbolic that today, a colleague Boban who became mayor on the basis of that change, assumes the obligation to all of us to consider these objections more seriously, that the ministry is more obvious to them and that, after that, if the assessment is necessary, the law goes into the third reading by repeating part of the fair debate, or counseling. Here, three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40478	Thank you very much. First, let's go to the replicas of Honorary Representative Boris Lalovec. He is the first respected representative, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40479	Thank you very much. A colleague of Lalovac, the fact is that you were Deputy Minister Linic, in 2012, when this law was passed at the beginning, I remember right away at the first session or second. And if you knew that and found out, you didn't build it into the law, I don't know why, and then today you tell us, there's a riot in concessions, especially in the marine good. And then you say that it's been out of sync for ten years, and you promised to do it four times, at least every year we waited until Christmas, so there wasn't, and now here's the requirement to make it. I've heard it's more or less near the end and we'll see it. And all this debate is about the Law on Maritime Affairs of Good and Seaports, and here we are only dealing with the Law on concessions as a framework that should be detailed, i.e. through the articles to work out everything that other law should do, so that these concessions on the beaches are in a way more orderly, concentrated. I agree with that, too. Who wouldn't want the local self-government to have a concessioning and setting limits on its maritime well-being. And then what are we gonna tell the county and the county, what have they been doing wrong so far? So we know how the process of establishing the limits of maritime good goes. We had two cases in the pre-election campaign. One was Zrce beach, which passed as a concession, and another was Veli Rat beach, which did not pass. Under the same law, according to the same Law on the Sea Good, one has passed, the other has not passed, means that we have obviously certain problems, but yet, all the debate again in the wrong direction, the other law which has no meaning that today we are discussing it but within which your Government set up in 2012 and this is one supplement, in my opinion much more quality than we have so far and we can agree on. I'm looking at some amendments here. Here it says that something maritime good is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. It's already with the Constitution, Art. 52. determined what is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, which is both the sea and the seashore and everything else it writes and is already defined as a clear strategic interest, but not only of interest but has its special protection. So we're going to be in the debate today in a political debate, which is more or less post-election, a little bit like that, but it doesn't touch exactly what should be in the concession law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40480	Thank you. The honourable representative Boris Lalovac will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, so my debate wasn't in the political direction at all, I don't know why you slept while I was speaking and these proposals that I spoke specifically about these articles, I was actually saying that the new articles, especially in the innovative solution, and you probably like it as soon as innovative solutions, there you probably open up the possibility and it's very dangerous, so I also spoke very specifically about the pawn right, which should be done, because this is a general roof law where the practice showed up, that practice showed that there are many of those who want to work, look for so-called. holes in the law. And that's why I'm sorry that you didn't listen to it, but you've brought it down to a certain political debate, and I think that MOST colleagues have spoken very specifically about certain points, what needs to be fixed, and I'm not going to say a little sarcastic here, because I'm sorry that the MOST colleagues aren't in the government today, because this law today would probably be there, but the colleagues who now have a certain majority will automatically raise their hands and support this law. It's a good thing there's got to be a critical mass and a question, because when you ask, it's normal to ask for answers, to give answers, and there's no one else in it later. But I also spoke very specifically about innovative solutions and about publishing rights, etc., which and how should be done and there was no talk of politics at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40482	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40483	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague named Lalovac is on this trail as well as his colleague Boris has said, we have noticed that it is definitely necessary as urgent as possible to pass these resolution laws, I would say, because this is definitely one of the roof laws that he detected and directed, not sublegal, but the resolution laws, so we, on our Committee on Finance, have touched on this problem, and we are told that in the next 6 months, all ministries will adopt these laws that will regulate these specific issues, so both in agriculture and in the maritime sector and in all other matters of this law. So here I appeal to all the ministries to bring their laws out of their jurisdiction as soon as possible because then we're going to get one total of this problem and there's going to be a lot less questions than we're asking them today. Therefore, I would also like to address this situation regarding maritime well-being, which is already an integral part of certain economic operators. We know that we have big systems, shipyards like we have in Rijeka, Pula, Split, and so far it's been very badly solved, so a lot of money went to the cost of maritime goods or paying for a maritime good country that has to be calculated into some kind of product that's been built by an economic operator, and I know from experience it's been doing a lot of problems for these owners, and it definitely needs to be changed in the future because we can't let any administrative solutions question the business of these entities. And just for a little while longer, with this publishing right, you know as well as I do that banks will not give up just on the basis of the faasisability of the study, you will see the results of the business of presenting the bank but will ask for the insurance with mortgages on some real estates, but if it is entitled to a concession at 50, 60, 90 years, then it should be considered to be a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40484	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40485	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, an esteemed colleague, so just when I was talking about pawn law, banking practice has shown that for the past ten years, they've been advocating payments exclusively in stock, because when you take 40 billion kunas of blocked citizens, when you take companies that were blocked, which had no income or employees, the question is, how could they even afford loans, and they were approved because they were projected, because they had land. You know that... the banks that were in Croatia that were exclusively project-funded, which exclusively wanted the land's reach, we know who we're talking about at HYPO Bank, which has been doing business in Croatia all the time on project financing for land acquisition, very high-quality parts of land, so we leave a question, for example. RBA cooperative. They exclusively funded RBA cooperatives, not because they analyzed client ratings but only because they wanted to get home to houses, people on the best part of the coast. And that's why we're talking here, that's how banks acted at RBA cooperatives, that's how the entire HYPO group acted for ten years to get to the best part of Croatia's coast and then resell those land later. So they didn't have their analysis of faasisability studies at all, and that's why I was saying that you shouldn't use pawn rights exclusively as a selection criterion, but be physical, add capital, create income, and then you get it, and then the stake right becomes some kind of extra collateral. Here you're absolutely right when we talk about the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, it's probably not easy. What you were saying about shipbuilding, especially because we think that the shipyard is an export activity, we know that most of it carries us in export, and then burdens it with some concession fees, and we know that no one can do anything but the shipyard, I think it should certainly be reconsidered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40486	Thank you. We will now move on to questions of the distinguished representative Arsen Bauk and the first replica is that of the distinguished representative Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40487	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I don't have a specific question for Mr. Bauk, but I would refer to the part in which he mentioned the island movement initiative, which expressed its disfavor and procedure itself, but also to the content of the proposed law and colleague Bauk said that we at the SDP club proposed amendments on this trail that we would like to incorporate their demands in the final law itself and that we are looking for a third reading. That is the same thing, the Island Assembly of the Associations for the Development of Croatian Islands also warned that including the local community on decision-making in their interests, in particular and in the case of this law is based on the Constitution, on strategy and other laws, and that is the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The main requirement of the Island Assembly is that the provisions of the law in the construction of parts which would enable members of local and regional self-government as the most interested representatives of the overall Croatian public to participate in the preparation of actions in the concession procedure for maritime good as well as participation in the process of making a concession decision on the maritime good Republic. There's no need to explain why it's necessary. We had the Brač case, but it did not happen again, but the case n Brač was not alone, only in this case was the media most exposed because of press pressure, but the public also experienced an epilogue favourable to the population, unfavourable to others who wanted to usurp maritime well-being at a small door, but surely it is not the only one and we should avoid such scenarios in the future, and this is exactly how we can involve the local community in the concession process and decision-making of concessions on the maritime good.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40488	The next replica to the presentation of a esteemed counterpart, Bauk, is her esteemed counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40489	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk, I agree with you that this law should go into third reading because in this debate we see that there are a lot of misunderstandings and there is a need to fix the law itself. And you spoke of the good of the sea, not just you and the ports, but other colleagues, and I point out the problem of us in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem, it is about concessions to extract gravel and sand. Neither is it, not regulated directly by this law, but I call on the national authorities of the departments to launch the initiative, to approve tendering for concessions to extract gravel and sand is absurd to build roads, bridges and other buildings in the Republic of Croatia, and we import gravel and sand. And on the other hand, small craftsmen who have invested in the purchase of equipment, who employ their families of 5.6 people, in the micro-Community, in local self-government, remain without income. If we can't at this point because of Nature 2000 and some other decisions, international contracts that we have signed to award concessions to some larger areas but at certain micro locations precisely for such small crafts as we have an example in the Municipality of Davor, in Novi Gradiška continue to invest in equipment, employ all families, why not allow at least at this micro location to extract spikes and sands, to have for local investment and municipalities and cities as well as private entrepreneurs. I think that, in this direction, we should also consider this law, what effect it has on these sublegal acts that regulate these areas and call on the competent state authorities to enable the tendering for concessions, to extract gravel and sand from the waterflows to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40490	Thank you. It is now likely that a part of the question will be answered on behalf of the applicant, the esteemed State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40491	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I kind of have to say that I'm sorry that the debate, I'd say, about this law went in one wrong direction and based in any case on unwarranted assumptions and even I would say here's the insinuation. We had the law here in our first reading and the law was accepted. We've received a few remarks, mostly we've installed them. At that time, we did not hear any such objections to the law, to individual legal solutions, as is the case now. But I think they're certainly in the most significant part of the unfounded. It means transfer of concession only with the agreement of the concession provider. It is only applicable to the right of the grantor and both of those cases under certain conditions laid down by law. They mentioned fictitious concessions, so abuse of competitions,... fictional concessions, then something after that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, concession providers are the general rule of public law. I don't see why we're starting to assume that the mayors, the mayors and the mayors, I don't know the ministers or the government will go after doing something illegal and give fictional concessions that in the second step will then result in I really don't know what. After all, such actions and actions are subject to other regulations. Not the concession law. It is also mentioned that you have apostrophe of Article 66(4) as something new that is included in the bill to suit someone as well. I must say that this article and that article of the law were already incorporated into the original draft law which was the subject of a public debate which took place from 30.11. to 30.12.2015. So long before Minister Zdravko Maric became minister. Likewise, the law was also in the first reading and second reading, and it was given the consent of other ministries. So, among other things, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which was then headed by the Ministers of the Most, that is, from your quota. I don't see why they gave consent and written and communicated with them if that item was almost incriminating. And why was he in the first and the whole procedure, why is he inside? So simply because it is about the transposition of the paragraph of the 43rd Directive, it is about amending the contract during its duration. It is therefore possible to modify the concession contract without a new concession procedure in the following cases. However, a number of cases include: if the new concessionaire replaces the one originally awarded to him by the contracting authority in the light of the general or partial succession of the original concessionaire after the restructuring of the undertakings, including takeover, merger, purchase or insolvency by another economic operator that meets the originally established criteria for qualitative selection. So the transposition of Article 43 of the Directive with which we are now harmonising the law. That's right. In the same way, when I said that the existing law existed, the existing law in Article 40, paragraph 3 says, it is also said that changes in the contract, exceptionally from paragraph 2, subparagraph 4 of this Article, change in concessionaires in full or in part does not matter if it arises as a result of corporate restructuring of concessionaires as it is now. With something a little bit more elaborate and consistent now, in line with what I said to the directive. So, I really don't think there's any reason to have this kind of discussion, no reason, I say I'll be free to say insinuate these intentions of the legislator because such a bill is in line with the directive and written a lot before the circumstances that you are now alluding to are true. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40492	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first of his distinguished MPs, Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40493	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, you're saying it was a public debate but this proposal regardless of the public debate, no matter what you say MOST ministers were but it's obvious that you didn't know this law well. It's visible, it means, it tells you... That's the change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The speaker doesn't understand....if it's a mistake, or if it's an oversight or anything, it's a mistake. So this law only provides for fog, i.e. Mechanical law. It is visible that you are referring to 100 articles, I will repeat to you 300, 300, other laws, and it is not stated which laws, whether the Law on concessions on ports, on beaches, on water, I don't know, in the woods, you are absolutely unclear law, the law where with the right of the Island Assembly and 30 other associations of local self-government, mostly by maritime well-being, and how many mayors take care of concessions is proof of the Golden War, and this is just the top of the pyramid. Go to Makarska, and the whole process is closed, you only see in the Ministry that procedure awarding concessions. Why don't the public see it? Why would you have the autonomous right to be the only one to see and control it? ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You are absolutely the whole process leading and affecting us, it is the first, second your article, you are not ready. [[Please, let's not communicate like that.]] I call once again, all those from the island area, mainly in the case of the Golden War, the beaches of Split, the beaches of the Makarska, the beaches of Dubrovnik, to raise themselves publicly and loudly to protect public interest from this law. And who was involved? Was my father, your father, or whatever you call him, no matter where you're from, that this law is a meddling of our public well-being, and that's proof of the Golden War, as the mayor, the county ruled the Golden War.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40494	Thank you. Here, the next replica is the esteemed representative of the esteemed representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40495	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, I'll just add it to you. On February 2nd, we discussed this proposal of the law in the first reading, on February 8, we adopted it with all the comments and all the discussions we had to make to the ministry. 117 votes for, 2 against and 4 abstentions. And today we come here and find out that this is wrong. So, without any objections then, I remember, the debate I had my own individual, no big stories, and today we find that nothing is right. So are we that short of brains and it's only been four months since? Well, some of them aren't, and I think we should just turn to the arguments that really stand, not these light stories, the pleasant ear, get up, protest, etc. So we know who's legally in charge of giving concessions on the beaches. It's the mayors and the county. I'd like to be the head of local self-government if I could do it on my own. We have a situation that it's best that the concessions are gone. Then local self-government issues concessions and shares income. Are we still gonna do this for the next few years? Or do we want an orderly system to which we strive? But we really need to clear up then what is the mayor, the county and what are its powers and we know that he has powers on the maritime good, that he can give a concession at sea, that he can build a marina, that he can give a concession on the beach, that he can give I don't know, a concession in another area. It's their authority by law. We have ministers, you had a minister of agriculture who transferred concessions from one company to another, so he ended up somewhere in third place and today we hear that it was so far impossible. So let's get ready for these things because the story is that you're the only one who's right, and that nothing's wrong, has got my epilogue say February 8th, when you all raised your hand for a bill that's almost the same as it was in the first reading, the same thing. And now what's changed? Except MOST is no longer in power. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40496	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on with the clubs, and on behalf of the Representatives Club... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I didn't see it. I don't know, nobody's seen it, but no problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40497	Dear Secretary of State, here you have said that we have some insinuations, that we are trying to give some hidden intentions here, imposed on this bill, so just a lot has happened in the last few years, we have burned ourselves with tax reform, we have seen what Minister Maric's intentions were, and now we are looking at all the legal proposals where something is trying to trick us. Col. Boric says what's changed since the 2nd month? It changed that we were having an affair with the Golden War. And now we've all wide open our eyes to what HDZ mayors do, what HDZ does. Why are we so sensitive to corruption in Croatia now? Well, because we had Ivo Sanader. We're all sensitive now, you've all brought us, or you've led us to watch what you're trying to trick us everywhere. You're trying to trick us. And if what I'm saying is true, here's the secretary of state that this is a roof law, that these other things will be arranged through these other laws, for example. Marine good law. Do you know what colleague Butkovic means, the Minister of Transport, which he brought in the draft National Port Development Plan, and that's exactly what I got, now I'm going to read it to you. "The proposals are being discussed by leaving the port sector on the usual commercial basis, but the law remains in force." "The first question that needs to be resolved and the provision of the applicable law that the maritime goods cannot acquire the right of private land ownership and immovable property should be drawn up a new framework for ports that would allow commercial lending with a view to financing investments in ports, this does not necessarily mean leaving the maritime goods system but that it needs to be better adapted to a new period of port activities." What is announced here in this draft National Port Development Plan? We see what interests are, and we know what Minister Butkovic was doing in his New Vinodolski, who invested him there, what team, Vanja Špiljak invested in his UDBA structures there.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40498	Thank you. As I said, let's move on with the representatives' clubs, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40499	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Ministry representatives, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, before us is the final proposal for a concession law that will support the Croatian Democratic Community club. Given all this so far and said I would once again underline some facts, I remind you. In fact, all Member States, the EU Member States still had an obligation to implement three new directives in their legislation within two years as part of a comprehensive reform of the public procurement system on 17 April 2014. Two concerning concessions, which were in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and one relating to public procurement in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Two years means April 2016. This law was just drawn up in 2016 and is now related to the observation that there was no consultation with the interested public on the Ministry's website consultation was opened from 18 February to 18 March 2016. After that, we know we've had early elections and so forth. The first reading of the Law on concessions was in this High House in February of this year. And as he pulled out the data and counterpart Boris was adopted with 117 votes in favour, only 2 against. And now it's scary to hear that this is a disastrous law, as my colleague Lalovac must have said that they were representatives of the MOST in the government so as not to raise a hand for it. It was in the first reading of the government that came into the parliamentary procedure, so there were the ministers from the Most, there were MPs from the Most, we all agreed that this was a good law, that it could go to second reading. There was almost no objection. What little bit was more of a nomotechnical nature, and now we suddenly conclude that this is a disastrous law. As a matter of fact, it is the harmonisation of national legislation with Directive No. 23 of the 2014 European Parliament and the correction of that Directive. This law seeks to prescribe a balanced and flexible legal framework for the award of concessions that will ensure an effective system, concessions, transparent market access to all economic operators and effective legal protection. This law sought to address a number of shortcomings that we had in the existing 2012 concession law. These provisions are adapted to the specificities of the system and now we have three types of concessions. It means a concession for the economic use of general or other goods, a concession for services, and a concession for works. We've heard here many times today that it's not, that it's not exactly what the laws are about. Well, I guess it's sectoral laws. If this is a maritime good, it will be a law on maritime goods and seaports. If it is water, then it will be the Law on Waters, or the Law on Forests. So there is no need to particularly apostrophe to which law will regulate maritime well-being and which is related to forests or waters. Furthermore, the draft law provides for the application of rules above and below the value threshold which prescribe the Directives in question where, among other things, the issue of granting concessions of an estimated value equal to or greater than 5 million and 225 thousand euros is regulated. So that's where we have different rules. In the case of concessions below, or above that value. As we could hear from the promoters, it is pointed out that several significant changes are being introduced. The introduction of strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia in the area of concession, which seeks to define and as such protect and as a strategic interest, recognised concessions for the construction and management of highways, construction and management of railway lines, transmission and distribution of electricity, construction and management of oil pipeline infrastructures, construction and management of the gas transport system. For a particular concession recognised as a strategic concession, the adoption of a special law is envisaged, and the Croatian Parliament can also declare additional concessions which as such are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. Why am I mentioning this one more time? Because there was a speech about why there was no mention of maritime well-being. But the promoter says that a strategic concession can be foreseen for the adoption of a special law and this very Croatian Parliament will then declare it of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. In this way, efforts were made to determine to a greater extent the handling of public good and strategic infrastructure, and to further strengthen the handling of the same with the clear competence of the Croatian Parliament. This proposal for a law stipulates that the concession cannot be given on forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia and on other well-established specific regulations. For example, forests and forest land have a constitutional category and their strategic interest is prescribed in Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and further a special regulation in the field of forestry, requires that forests are of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. It has not been forgotten and it has not gone beyond that it will not be possible, for example, to build water lines, sewers, pipelines, electricity lines or to carry out tourism activities in the area of the forest. This would be resolved by establishing the right of construction and the right of service as well as the lease for example for the purposes of rest, recreation, sports, the setting up of advertising boards, booths and the like. Waters, however, have the special protection of the Republic of Croatia, and cannot be owned by anyone, nor can other real rights be exercised on the waters. However, the draft law stipulates that the concession can be granted for the economic use of water. The use of water to drive large hydropower plants, sell water, use of water in swimming pools, spas, etc., but not for public water supply and public disposal activities, except in cases of public wastewater treatment services, transport of waste water from septic caves, and public irrigation or public irrigation services. In fact, these public water supply and disposal activities are carried out as a public service which is of interest to local self-government units in their service area, which is certainly far more known by the city leaders of municipalities and counties, so that the part remains as a public service. The draft law prescribes and allows the notion of giving the reserved concession on the framework which the concession provider can reserve, the right to act in concession proceedings, only protection workshops and economic operators whose primary objective is the social and professional integration of persons with disabilities and this will be determined by a special law, counterpart Lukacic has already spoken of it. In order to grant a concession, it is concluded under this new final proposal to the law of the administrative contract, not as so far as the contract which had the characteristics of private and public rights and to which the provisions of mandatory relations applied. This means that in the case of concessionaires and donors, the administrative court is in charge, not as before. The preparatory actions themselves shall further regulate the scope of the eligibility study, the documentation for competition, but also the extension of the scope of the professional commission’s activities, which must recognise the elements of concessions which could have an impact on public debt, which is recognised as an important factor in the structure of larger and more complex projects. The proposal for a law lays down the possibility of awarding a concession on a request which has been established in a way that does not result in an unwarranted avoidance of the concession procedure through such a normative solution. Furthermore, the conditions of exclusion from the concession procedure as well as the important change, as well as the question of the amendment and the substantial modification of the concession contract, are also laid down, and one of the most important preconditions of the competition are met on the basis of these. We especially know by the sea that there have been cases where the concessionary has a concession for example. 500 strings, and then he wants to get an extension for another 50. You can't put it and treat it the same way as if it were the other way around. If someone had, I don't know, 500, 100 strings, and then they want to expand another 200 or 300 later. It is precisely this law that provides for amendments and substantial changes to the concession agreement. The Ministry of Finance shall report once a year to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the policy of concessions implemented, which shall be published on the Ministry's website after adoption. With orderly insurance... Contracts on concessions and charges for concession fees, individually corresponds to each concession provider, in accordance with the provisions of the law, implements the performance and assumes all other actions related to non-payment of fees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the debt structure, it was noted that a number of concessionaires with large debts are in the pre-currency settlement procedures. These are really big problems, big debts and in these procedures, even in the procedures where bankruptcy proceedings are conducted which greatly affect the inability to collect these claims. And that is why it is necessary to increase the responsibility of each concession provider, and the ministry is the one that will supervise the budgetary supervision in the first place. Today, a lot has been said and our benches have received comments and suggestions from the Island Assembly, GONG, the Peace Studies Centre. In accordance with the constitutional provisions and the principles of sustainable development strategies of the Republic of Croatia, the Otok Assembly proposes that the specificity of maritime goods be taken into account as the sole general good in the Republic of Croatia and that provisions of the law should be incorporated into the provisions which would allow members of local and regional self-government as the most interested representatives of the group of Croatian public to participate in preparatory actions in the concession procedure for the maritime good, as well as participation in the process of taking decisions to grant concessions on the maritime good. I am convinced that the Proposer of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports on these specificities, requirements, remarks and proposals of the Island Assembly as well as numerous others will take care of, and I am sure that we are all interested that this law will come into the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible, because we have a number of problems on the maritime well-being, and it is probably also the reason why this law is not so easy to carry out or release into the process, but according to the information that I have, very soon this law will start with discussions, that the public will be involved in the work and making of this law, to the satisfaction, first of all, the islanders, all of us who live in the coast, entrepreneurs interested in investing in this area, and then all the citizens of the Republic. GONG also commented on the data in the concession register which they consider to be not fully available to the public. Namely, the concession register is available on the Internet. However, it is considered not to be machine-readable, I am convinced that this register will be available and readable as it also requires and the Law on the right to access information. The Centre for Peace Studies, on the other hand, proposes to repeat consultation with the interested public, that the law goes into 3 readings, and a few amendments, there can be said, can only say that the counselling was, that there is a deadline that requires us as a member of the EU, that within 2 years we adopt these laws and as far as 3 readings are concerned, I do not know that, at all, after the first reading has been completed, there is so little and no difference that we have in relation to the second and first readings at all. The amendments will finally be said by the government. Finally, this law does have an additional impact on the creation of conditions of a fair competition in the implementation of small and larger projects with the characteristic of concessions and the reduction of fiscal risks. The benefits of this law are particularly expected in the realisation of large infrastructure projects and putting into operation inactive state property and charging public charges. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40500	Thank you very much. We have a series of replicas on your exhibit. The first is the distinguished representative of Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40501	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, I really support this debate of yours, and I'm glad you mentioned the reserved concessions that I've already said they use and will welcome the general social employment of people with disabilities. However, I must now say here that here I was just a moment ago very, very uncomfortable surprised to see these amendments that we got on the bench. I am sorry that there are no colleagues here, Bauk and colleagues Alexic, to hear what I am saying here because it refers precisely to their amendment relating to Article 15, to the reserved concessions that you have also mentioned where they propose its change and say that concessions can be granted to those entities, protection workshops and economic operators acting in accordance with the criteria set out in the Social Entrepreneurship Development Strategy. I do not know whether colleagues have read in detail this strategy that the SDP government has adopted, but the strategy states that the Republic of Croatia, the units of local (regional) and regional self-government or the public authority cannot be the sole founder of the social entrepreneur. These economic operators, which are mentioned in Article 15, cannot therefore be taken into account. I don't understand why. Make a deal, decide if you want this or you want it. Do you know that the vast majority of protection workshops have just been established by the bodies of state or regional authorities because it has been so for years. However, the difference between the protection workshops that were founded by a private entrepreneur and that is possible or the protection workshops established by the city, or the county or the Republic of Croatia, I do not think it is correct. I hope, to be honest with us, that my colleagues will withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40502	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40503	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues Lukacic, not only is it sad that the MPs mention a strategy they haven't read, but I see that today many MPs are participating in this debate haven't read the Law on concessions without saying that they slept through the first reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40504	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40505	Thank you very much. My colleague Juričev, here is finally an argumentable good debate on the Proposal for a Law on concessions where each article has been clearly explained and avoided what we are witnessing today, some stories that try to be pleasant to the people regardless of what they say in the law, and not exactly what they say. And we had an example of our colleagues, Grumoja, who, of course, again accused HDZ of wanting to privatise the maritime well-being. To enable the acquisition of ownership through a single article, but not the full denials of Minister Butkovic here, so I will now read it which says that the ministry has drawn up a draft Law on the maritime good and seaports and will not make it easier to acquire ownership of maritime goods. And that denial went the day after that article that came out and the New List. So some idea of consultant turned into a story that needs to be heard here are Croatian citizens to hear and then blame you, of course, we want to privatise the maritime good, because we want to do damage to this country and we don't know how to protect it. So I want to protect and want to cooperate with my mayor, who is not from HDZ, but from the SDP, and when he concentrates on a beach that has 2km of sand because it is large, which is certainly of great interest in which great economic activity is taking place to ask me something like a local leader. I hope we can establish that. But I don't think that was the case until now that the mayors have been deaf to what he says from the local self-government, even though the Marine Good Act is clear, which is in effect to give them that authority. And I don't know why we're bringing it down to the local level right now. I said personally here and this system fits us, we issue concessions, there's no concession maybe it's best for everyone. But I guess we want an orderly state, and this law doesn't fix it today. Let's be honest and say it. But it provides a framework for the Law on Maritime Goods, the Law on Waters, the Law on Forests, to prescribe a way of concessioning those parts that we want to protect in the Republic of Croatia. But not a priory to accuse one party you want to sell out all this or make it possible to own it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40506	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40507	Thank you very much. So, fellow Boric, today it is about the Law on concessions which is a roof law, which means that the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports can be more stringent in some segments, so it can be more precise and should be more precise. And that is why we will also pass a new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, the Water Act, the Law on Forests, but today it seems to me that all those who have not studied this law well enough that they have transferred the topic and accent to the Golden War, to the Law on Maritime Goods, although it is pointless to speak today. When this new law comes into the process, then we'll talk about the marine good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40508	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. There you were a little down on your colleague Lalovec, among other things, saying that he stated that this law was disastrous and that a few months ago, I may have misunderstood, but there was something on that trail that was full of criticism and a few months ago it was ideal as a law. So I believe that you will agree with what your colleague Lalovec said that, before adopting, that is, parallel to the adoption of this law, you should take care of compliance and some other legal and sublegal solutions so that we have a complete picture of the impact assessment, regulations, not just financial ones, but an assessment of the effects of the regulations on those if you want the population concerned. We don't have it right now. Secondly, a very serious grudge from the Island Assembly, but our club is also going on this trail that it's actually a local population, you were, too, leading one unit of local administration and self-government. And you, as a representative of your citizens, were in no way able to participate in the procedure or in the decision to award a concession that was very much relevant to your population and you were in some way indirectly responsible for the consequences that might arise. Same thing we saw happen in Bol. And that's what we want to change with this law. After all, you are referring to the directives, saying that this bill is in line with two directives. However, I must remind you that the Republic of Croatia has also been a signator of the Arhus Convention since 2007 where it is very clearly defined, this is the Convention on Law, on Access to Information which says that public participation in decision-making and access to justice, in environmental matters, which is an international legal framework in the field of environmental protection... It's a condition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we can only ensure this in the act if we include representatives of citizens, in particular local administrations and self-government units in those first two stages of concession decisions in order to avoid between other and corrupt actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40510	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40511	Thank you very much. Comrade Voter, I have to go back to my debate, I didn't say because my colleague Lalovac didn't say the law was disastrous either. He specifically went from article to article only eventually said he was convinced that they were representatives of the Most government so as not to be such a law. That's the only part I ever referred to when it came to him. Other colleagues said the law was disastrous. When you mentioned the observations of the Island Assembly, I also said that we support their proposals and remarks, but that I am convinced that this will be in the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. There we will certainly get this opportunity, freedom and the task of participating in the award of concessions in the area of the city or the municipality, that is, so that we can best pass on requests and all those projects that are of interest to the islanders and people in the coast.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40512	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40513	Thank you very much. You know, you know, you know, you know, my colleagues say that when I first read this thing, it's been a while. How do you describe the Golden War? Do you know the names that participated here? So do you know that there are your colleagues... How to take over the Golden War? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why was your mayoral candidate replaced? Do you know if it's familiar? And would you rather, in part? Well, they should have met you. And you are referring to directives, not only can we call on directives. Here's the interest of the people, the Golden War, I'm personally as a parliamentary representative when I sent a letter to all the council members of the county and the mayor to break up with it, they didn't want to. They've assigned a company that, directly from your club I'm talking to, HDZ, has been sent by people to solve this problem in a way to damage the public good, but it's about the interest of groups that don't have an absolute company that has 0 kuna, 0 employees. Do you get it? So local self-government should also get local residents the possibility of a public debate once more. We were just looking for a third reading, and that's what the island council and another 30 mayors and mayors from that area are looking for. You're talking to MOST's ministers, so I repeat it to my father, which matters if it wasn't good. This isn't right, this is fog, fog. So far, how do you describe the Makarska coast of concreteization? I don't know what's in Sibenik-Kninski, but I'll just check how concessions are awarded, although I have a lot of examples of people calling me that it's not in the citizens' interest but in the interests of individuals. What does it matter if, in the first reading, MOST's minister supported it or not? But this isn't right now, it doesn't matter who's in the opposition, who's in position. I personally didn't vote for the budget, what does it matter? What's the big deal? We're agents here. So don't be so fond of the Brussels Dad, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40514	The answer to the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40515	Thank you very much. My friend Bulj, I'll use your dictionary, that it's about my dad, if it's no good, then it's no good. That's how I'm gonna answer you to the Golden War. So if something wasn't right, it was wrong. So people moved away, the decision was annulled, and what was done was done. When the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports comes, according to which such a concession has been opened and awarded, we will talk about this even more carefully and more carefully. What you say about concreteizing the coast. I don't believe it was done without any permission. So you set the limit of maritime good, you build a project, you have to go on permission. If something is illegal, there are services, report, report. ... Well, then the service will come and check whether it's in accordance with the law or not. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40516	Let's not throw it out of the bench, please. ... Comrade Bull, you're not the only one here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's a colleague from your club who wants to talk and you're making it impossible for her. Please welcome the distinguished representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. [[Intruder Lesandric: And I can leave it to him.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40517	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. And I'm going to start with these directives and regulations, and I can see that we're chasing it, so let's get this straight. The Directive obliges with regard to the results achieved by it and leaves the national authorities with a choice of forms and methods of implementation. And the regulation is what we have to stick to from word to word and we have an Archduke Convention which is one of the most significant regulations that we don't stick to, and when we need it, then we refer to the directives. She'll start from the first and second readings after I see that you have 100 questionnaires, how come we've passed this law in our first reading? So you see, that's why we have the first reading, the second reading, the third reading, to study and most importantly, to take observations from the field and listen to the voice of the people. We don't pass this law because of you or for my sake, because exactly the consequences of just one bad article within this law you know who has? All citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And if we have anything, we have 25 years of evidence. And what's most interesting to me in your presentation is this astonishment of how our ministers were for the first reading, so let's deal with yourself more, whether you want, or what you wanted from our ministers, when they're no good for here, when they're against it then they're resolved. Either you are simply unable to accept someone else's opinion or be a partner or you have no coalition potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40518	Here you are, the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40519	When it comes to the directive, the directive is... delivered in February 2014, by February 2016 we should have adopted new regulations. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] That's what I'm talking about. And surely the law does not prescribe any article and provision of the directive but is upon us. You say from the first reading to the second reading, you've already consulted the public, with the base, I can accept it, but you're saying that by the first reading, neither your ministers nor you've looked at it at all, that's how you raised your hand because you're going to do it until the second reading. After all, there are amendments, you can submit an amendment so we'll see, the government will give its final word to the Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40520	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40521	Dear colleagues, I was going to say the same thing as my colleagues. So in the meantime, there was an affair, which led to your candidate for mayor, or Mayor Ževrna, an affair in which a concession was awarded to a company that has no employees, which has no income, a huge affair that occupied the entire public and the media. And awakened interest not only in the public and citizens, but also us as parliamentary representatives on the subject. And given the experience that I had with the Ministry of Finance and Minister Maric about tax reform where we were pushed through a lot, where I, I don't know if in the first or second reading, saw the only thing that reduced the rate of disproportionate property and then supported me by my colleague Lalovac, and that the number of years that the minister had not respected but had reduced can no longer be determined for, as was the case by 2005, but for the past 6 years, which is the period of 2005 to 2011, the father's time can no longer be explored. I don't want to let a team from the Ministry of Finance or someone from the tower get through something like that, I accidentally noticed it then, I don't even have all these representatives of the capacity to make you special, such extensive laws, to spot everything right away, but we have people from the field who will let us know something. That is, I do not know what is not clear to you, and the Secretary of State has called for a directive on this Article 66(4), so if the directive is a directive, it is not something that must be fully respected. Let's see how to protect the water sources, how to protect the Jamnica. I'm aware that if there are no concessions to the water source, then Jamnica is worth it as a rolling stock of her directors. I'm aware of that, but let's see how these things work out, so we don't lose it. And here you are attacking us to call the minister for something that doesn't stand. If that's not the Minister's intention, let's see how to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40522	The answer to the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40523	As the replica was already similar, so will my answer. So everything about the Golden War we know, that there was an obvious failure, that everything that was going on around the Golden War we know, it's common knowledge. It's about the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. Under the law, a concession has been awarded, and we all look forward to that law with impatience, all of us from the coast, not just you, but also us. And I believe that in that law it will be precise and that such misunderstandings will be avoided, not to say, possible people and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40524	Thank you very much. We are now moving to the next club, which is the club Let's change Croatia, in the name of which the representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens who follow us. The proposal for this Law on concessions is one step forward and I welcome here the representative of the Ministry of Finance, but there are certain weaknesses and certain improvements are necessary to make it even more useful, efficient and beneficial for all in Croatia. On this occasion in front of the club Change Croatia, I have submitted 2 amendments to Article 8 of this bill, which reads "Concession cannot be given in forests and forest land owned by Croatia", but we have also introduced water. The Change Party Croatia will strongly insist on the issue of water. It's a most important general good, less drinking water, it's an increasingly scarce resource, that's what wars are about, and we insist that it enter into this new concession law. We see that here about some other things that I welcome and about the Gold War, the maritime goods that I'm going to talk about later, but the water practically no one asked to make that change. The proposal is also to add, in the same article, the second amendment that I have submitted in Article 8(4) to address gas transport, to the maritime good, that it is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, some of you are here, stressing the problem of maritime goods, about these days and a public appeal directed by the Island Assembly, I have received such a memo and on this occasion I support the Island Assembly and this request. And I ask through the amendments that the maritime well be declared by the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, so that then the laws define what might be. But now I will say something more concrete about the law, that is, its repercussions and what has been so far. I think public counseling should have taken some more time. So here we see these days exactly that the island council is rebelling that they didn't have enough time to spend quality final counseling and make certain suggestions and that should be appreciated. However, let us ask the question of what were the benefits of so far's concessions in Croatia? It is reported that at the annual level, the state budget is revenueing about a billion and a half kuna from various concessions. On the occasion of the first reading of this bill, I presented one piece of information that since '92. the year so far when outstanding debts are charged, means when interest is calculated and interest is tightened that the amount can reach and reach up to 10 billion kuna. I've sent a request to the Ministry of Finance to answer whether it's the correct information or not. I received the answer that all debtors owe only about 150 million kuna, and Minister Zdravko Maric invited me if I have any knowledge that it is, that I prove 10 billion kunas in '92. I'll figure it out, I'll bring it in. Well, that's kind of sarcastic, so he wants to turn me into an outside associate so I can chase the debtors. So, I repeat, a serious analysis shows that since '92. I repeat so far with interest, tight interest about 10 billion kuna is long and let it be settled, let it be charged. We're losing money on everything. The transparency of the concession is bad. Please, which one of you knows what the contract on the Zagreb Airport looks like? Has anyone read that contract? We don't know the key things about it. We lose to concessions. Here's an example. I'm a scientist, but I'm also a politician, but you've seen me never speak without arguments. Do you know how many BINA Istrias built by the Istrian Ipslon are paid by the state of Croatia from the state budget annually? You may know, you may not know, but here's the last piece of information for 2015 that pays 293 million kuna a year. This is likely compensation for undervalued traffic, and it does not have a hundred million kuna per year, and it receives 293 million kuna from the state budget. Also for the concessionaire who made the highway Zagreb Macelj pays 98 million kuna. For Rijeka – Zagreb 56, it means around 450 million kuna is paid only for roads. I didn't add up, I don't have any data. You don't know who's drinking here, but you know who's paying. Tax bonds are paid, we are citizens of Croatia. So it's not just the law problem. Our mission here is as Parliament's legislative body to make a good law. But the implementation of concessions, the collection of concessions doesn't matter, and we can't go forward like that. Someone's going to say, so it's not the Parliament's job. But since others don't talk about it, we have to talk about it. So how much will the French Airport of Zagreb be paid accordingly. So somebody come over here and tell us, let's hear it. That is why I call on the Government, or not to say that we are re-forming an investigative commission to review the existing most important concessions in Croatia. I also demand that an emergency register be created at the Ministry of Finance. One form of it exists, but I've been watching. He's got the FINA, he's got the Ministry of Finance. There's no deal, you can't find everything in one place, but you have to get involved in research work. So I asked in the third amendment that you can, to do it at one point in the concession register, to allow unconditional access, not that you have to fill out a dozen papers and you still have to pay FINA, let's say if you're asking to pay the fee. You see the public means they want to know what concessions they are, you have to go through a bunch of bureaucratic procedures. That's why in the third amendment, I asked for it to be done transparently and without conditions and without payment. We have current practices and local communities. They are obliged to enter debts, charges, grant concessions, etc. And you see, I got one material here. There's a lot more, but who's gonna wear all that, a couple of kilos. He speaks of an example of the Split ferry port. Here is for you who deal continuously with the 9th and 10th electoral unit, the material that makes by the beach Zlatni rat to deal with and ferry port Split. But that's obviously what everybody's running from. What's going on out there? That port is 56 years old. '91. year of creation of the Croatian state, it passes into social, state-owned property. By law of '95. the year was founded the Port Authority and she had it, so all the property went into her hands. And she immediately had the task of returning all the facilities to Split's ferry port, the infrastructure to own and manage it. And a concession was awarded, so-called. First concession because this firm has worked before. However, the Port Authority imposed itself as an arbiter, as an alpha and omega which only gave certain segments of it without parking, without this one, without that one. And imagine today and before and before that concessionary to Split ferry port, the possibility was given to tie and untie ships, offers water and electricity but not unloading, loading passengers, vehicles, but is now given to one association, imagine, which had no staff but used students via student service. So please don't talk any further, this is chaos, a mess in the judiciary. This country needs to be put in order. It is necessary to give people concessions, which have received concessions to implement them. From this material, I have read that it threatens the state of Croatia, that if the arbitration takes place, a court procedure, that again the citizens of Croatia must pay compensation of about 600 million kuna, based on this mess that happened down there and which is happening, it is a first-rate judicial, let's say, there are conflicts of interest, four judges have changed, there is nothing that has happened down there and everything is happening. What's the DORH for? Let's get this cleaned up already. What is this message to investors and tomorrow other concessionaries, that they will have to do with some local services, administrations, when we talk about port administrations to conduct 20 years of procedures like in this case. Let me get this straight. And not when it comes to solving these important things, then we have these shows from some courts around athletes or some mayors, etc. So we need to react to everything and to thermal power plants and beaches as well as to the public, but also to these things. Because the safety of passengers here is compromised from the ferry, so it can do this and it can't board and land and the price list of services in that port is 3.60%, 70% prescribed on purpose cheap for them to fail. So I'm going to conclude with this concession law. We are the Supreme Legislative Body, the citizens have chosen us to worry about it and to make good laws. May they really benefit the citizens, the economy, we can't without this, of course it's not easy for the representatives of the Ministry of Finance here in front of the proposings to be here and listen to some things, but here they can't do without it. We are also in charge of providing concrete examples, in order to prove, disprove, or see that we should not work in this case. I therefore call for him to be wise, to be tolerated when this law is passed, to adopt good amendments, all those who have been submitted. I'm glad that the representatives of the Most are now more agile and see better from the opposition than when they were in power, so at the second reading, someone at the first. I will also support your good amendments for sure, because here it must not matter to us where amendments come from which party, but how much they will improve this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40526	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40527	Dear Professor Lovrinovic, you have told the problem of port ports and port administrations and is indeed a jurisdiction, depending on the state, county, and in particular the county administration, is essentially the main ATM to political options, where they naturally give concessions to their political voters, i.e. To those who will lobby, but the ATM is pulling money out of you, similar to what it was to the media fime. Therefore, we really need to fight for the public good, and when you mention yourself from the airport, and that is the fact that better for us the French are managing our airport of Dance and that is to the harm of the state, because if the contract does not achieve the number of traffic that is planned, the Croatian State will pay them that difference. So if there is not enough traffic, Croatia will pay them the part of the difference, which means the precedent. It certainly doesn't have to be naked, it wouldn't have happened in France at the airport that... in Paris. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have a huge problem of di political elites being favored either by foreign or their like, and the Golden War is just what you mentioned, when you mention the loudness, that I was the first to talk about the Golden War and the problem, and the Golden War is just the top of the pyramid as much as the maritime well used, as it is used not for public good, but because of the interest groups, how many beaches, how much concrete it is, here today is concreteized one beach down by Stobreč, not editable but concreteized in the interest of individuals. And it's a key problem that the public good, and local self-government and people from those local communities react to the county, but the county does nothing, but they do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40528	Thank you, just one small note in Zagreb is called Doctor Francis Tudjman, not Dance, you said Dance, so I'm correcting you. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40529	Dear fellow Bull, I have followed the situation of the Bol and the Golden War, and I support it. It is simply necessary for these local sheriffs to put an end to and direct civil action but political parties are the best way to prevent any further damage from happening, but when you mentioned action and what should not be, I mention again, these ferry ports in Split, here imagine you immediately before the fall of last government, last year at the 8th month and before the elections, it was announced in a quick competition that was not even publicly published in the National Journal, and instead of 30 days going on, those within 10, 15 days resolved at speed, that we are not getting into details, indeed Croatia can no longer function this way, it could not have been long ago and we must, I call on citizens to civil activists to resist such examples of individual pay, from usurping anything because it is the most effective way of protection. So look, go to Germany, if someone tries and dumps the trash, some or something works, this guy's gonna get shot by a citizen from another building or across the street he's gonna warn the authorities and the problem is solved. We must be responsible for what we see happening in front of our eyes because no one will solve our problems unless we are alone. That's why knowledge is needed, but first of all, one civic courage. Now's the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40530	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate and the first to appear is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40531	Thank you very much. I had a debate on behalf of the club, and now I would say what I think about concessions on everything that God and nature gave us on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is our sea, our islands, our beaches, our ports, rivers, water, forests, agricultural land and many other resources that many other countries do not have as much potential and resources for development. However, we have no courage or strength for years to declare an exclusive economic belt to protect our national interests and that others do not hunt for fish, Italians, Italian fleets and sell us here, let alone that our political elites do not influence, it is less important to them, but they influence concessions. And the top of the ice santa was, of course, the Golden Work, concreteisation in Makarska, the Podstrana which is now concreteized by the beach, not only does the concreteization of the beach where citizens oppose, associations oppose, island council, island resistance movement and numerous other associations and defence and civil and civil and mayors and mayors are asked to go to this law in the third reading to get more after the Golden War when it was discovered what happens with concessions is the calculation I will repeat the expert on all beaches if I calculated that two billion kuna only Split-Dalmatia County annually loses funds. Therefore, from these islands, coasts, hinterlands, Slavonia all over the Republic of Croatia, young people emigrate to the resources and potentials where they should build their jobs and help their countries build jobs, it is convenient for companies in the Golden War to get which has no employees and no kuna in the account. It means that it only happened to individuals, and we know by name who it's about, and we don't repeat it. The fact that this law in second reading would not lose anything to go into third reading, would say the Archdiocese Convention would give people the right to information. We have also seen that the secretary is not prepared for this law, that he did not realize that Article 66(4) was amended where the transfer of concessions of concessions is introduced gives another possible transfer of concessions, which is both anti-constitutional and against all legal regulations and competitiveness. Passing the concession on to someone else you can think of. Of course, we need to primarily protect what's most important here, and that's water, that's the most important thing, that's the potential and the resources of energy, the energy potentials we know that we only pay hugely on wind power plants, huge bonuses that they get for renewable energy sources to foreigners. So we have huge capacities and resources that we need to protect, and that's all we can do by public debate. It's the right of those people to live in that area. Why would someone from the island move out, why would someone from the coast move out, why would someone from Slavonia move out and work someone else's land, and that's what's happening. It means that the Law on concessions in our natural resources is not well applied but has been agreed and it was fog. That's the fact that it was fog. Also Article 67 we will give amendments I said on behalf of the club, but speaking now individually, a concessionary can put a pawnage right i.e. The mortgage on the concession it receives means the Golden War can be mortgaged and at that point we give the opportunity when the obligation is fulfilled to manage our resources. You did and certainly the banks brought us here where they brought us, our monetary policy and the fact is we can't let that happen. And that's why once again the secretary here when there's no minister, I'm giving a call to the MPs to allow people to open another public debate, to pass the law, this is a special law in which, in this law, as much as 300 special laws are mentioned, it means to simplify it and not to tie the hands and not to the law-makers, and not to the public interest. So much for me. We must protect what God and nature have given us. We have 2/3 of Croatia empty, let's not let what happened in the Law on Privatisation and Conversion continue. We need this law to stop it from being empty to 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia than to be, and we are less than California and New Zealand and Iceland, and I believe that good governance, good laws and good public debate and opportunities, because if we have to allow local self-government to be a referendum on what is right, that in this way we will bring and arrange this country that we will have young families and that they will live on these hearths, and not in this way that because of such laws as conversion and privatisation, in this case we now have this Law on concessions and valid and this one that brought the state to the brink. We have Zagreb in some ways, we have Split basics in some ways and a few other cities, Rijeka and a few cities, there is an empty area. Which is why our pastures are without cattle, which is why our islands are without humans, except in summer, which is why we don't have food production. Here's for these things. Because of the bad laws. And if we don't change that in the interest of public good, if it's just about the interest of the Vanja Spiljak groups and the like, then we don't have a future in those areas. These potentials and resources must be for sustainable development and this should build on the future of these undeveloped landscapes, not exclusively to be an exploitation field such as concessions on mineral raw materials, where even in my Sinj, they only fight over mineral raw materials and mines. There's been a struggle even for power over the miners. I therefore call once again for these laws to be affected by specific laws which the secretary did not well present here and we will give amendments, in particular Article 66(4) and Article 67 and other numerous concerns. The fog that is essentially not the Law on concessions, but the Law on Muds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40532	We have one replica of your presentation, the distinguished representative of Tomislav Lipoščak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40533	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Bully, the reason why I appear is because I must actually look back at the repeated mention of the forest and today's debate and at the one during the first reading when it comes to concessions. It is precisely the proposal that means this law and before, he says in Article 8 that the concession cannot be given on forests and on forest land. It is also defined by the Law on Forests that forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia are lords of a commercial society, and in the same law in the Law on Forests there are also provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which say that forests are of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and that they have its special protection. In this way we sometimes misread certain items of the law and use these kinds of statements in the first place without reason bring unrest among the citizens of our country which are particularly proud of our forests but are equally extremely sensitive. And finally, if the forests were to come under the question of concessions, we should actually change a series of laws, first of all the Law on the Forests, then the Law that is before us today, and we MPs in the Croatian Assembly here should say something and I think it is too much to talk about. What we all hope to agree on is that the forests are family silver of our homeland, and I don't think they have the price and that's exactly why and I can't be the subject of concessions right now and I hope it won't be in the future either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40534	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40535	At first, I merely listed our good, God, and our natural days, because this is what we need to master properly, best in that way. And of course we're calling for a third reading, not talking about concessions on the woods, but I said it was our natural wealth and we're the richest state and we're prettier than California and Ireland and Iceland, where our young run away. That's what we're witnessing. But the fact is that when the management of forests is exported to the logs that much more exports are exported than those that create means finished product, it's very difficult to get to the forest. You know that? It's down to the repromary. Our meanings in the woodworking industry, our people very hard to get enough cubic means to work while being exported in unlimited quantities. We're good and we're not protecting enough and I wasn't talking about concessions. I only said at one point that these areas are two-thirds of Croatia empty, I will take from Slavonia to Dubrovnik and that the good laws and this one is not, this one is worse than the Law on Privatisation and Conversion, we will take another step back to make our young families go to other countries from such a beautiful country. That's a fact. Because this law allows us to manipulate what happened in the matter of the Golden War. An example of Makarska, an example of Baška water in... example of Split's beaches. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So numerous, numerous competitions that are staged and corrupt, which local county sheriffs do whatever they want and what they want, we can no longer allow, to anyone wrong, to anyone right. It should be in the interest of the people, not individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40536	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is distinguished representatives Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40537	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Assembly...... /Incursion President: Please don't throw it out of the bench./ [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40538	Please don't throw yourself out of the bench. Here you go, colleague Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40539	Thank you. I'll start with this article in 66, 67, which we've been trying to get an answer since this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40540	Comrade Bull, come on, stop it at last.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40541	So in Article 66, we have a disputed item 4 that did not exist in the 2012 law. Mr. Secretary of State tried to justify the directive, so we explained earlier that there is no directive that can tell us from word to word that we will write an item within an article. So the directive sets a goal for us, i.e. the result, and the national authorities are the ones who decide to form and implement this result. So you can't tell us that it's exactly paragraph 4 because of the directive because it's not. The same and the truth is that you said that he was proposed in 2015. It is equally true that it was proposed by the Ministry of Finance, so Minister Zdravko Marić, and what is interesting is that every day that the law comes into second reading, so we actually realize that from the first reading some item within the article was actually already proposed as a beautiful basis for possible options for the development of Agrokor. And against that, we can't, so all we're asking is for you to answer me, which is why the article 4 in article 66 is standing, and we're going to solve all these problems. The second point of Article 67, in law, I believe that this particular article, we will definitely submit an amendment to this article, because this article opens a series of non-RH-related actions, so let's start from the fact that the person who received the concession can advocate his concession on the beach, we will say, and if he does not repay his credit obligations, that stock has remained in the bank, so the bank is the one who can or must seek another concessionaire... Give people... and in this way we allow two things, so we allow an individual to take credit, which he doesn't have to repay tomorrow, or we're asking for someone to deliver to us the situation that you might have, whether there are situations that are reflected in Article 67, so whether there was a situation where the person who took the loan thanks to the hostage law and didn't bring it back, which happened to that situation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Please.]] So, one situation is that this person doesn't have to repay that loan, and another situation is that we leave the beach in some procedure that can last 20, 30 years until it's settled, or until the banks find a new concessionaire, which is certainly not the best option for a country living from tourism's income. And the third situation is just about the Golden War. Therefore, we cannot allow the situation, so the regional authority, so the county is issuing concessions for units of local self-government without having previously asked for their consent. We will also put the amendment there, even in giving the concession procedure because we believe that even before notifying the concession to carry out economic activity is a county in this case obliged to result in a prior agreement from units of local self-government. What you must understand in the adoption of this law that parliamentary representatives are right here the voice of the people and that all these remarks that have appeared in the last week and months from the people are what we must represent here and for this reason we are looking for a third reading because if so many associations of citizens of the initiative is asking for their comments and is asking for third reading, then what we have to do is to respect their comments and to respect their demands because we are here chosen by them, and not just to decide what is good and what is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40542	Thank you very much. Now we... you want to answer? Then a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Željko Tufekčić. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Here you go, intervention five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40543	Thank you. Here's a quick one more time, my colleague wasn't in there, but I think she heard what I said, but I'm still thinking about doing it again. Therefore, Article 66(4), as I have quoted, the directive, Article 43 of the Directive paragraph d, seems to have been transposed into our law. And it's not a literal translation, it's a custom translation. But that article, as I had said, was also in the draft bill, which was in public debate at the end of 2015, so before Minister Maric became minister. Likewise, this was the first and second reading, i.e. Now he's in second reading. There were no objections to that article. But also in the existing law, not an identical item, but with very similar consequences, there is, in Article 40(3), it seems to me. The transfer of concessions, but everything is still and always with certain conditions taking place with the consent of the concession provider, so it is the concession provider who still has in his hands the instrument and the power not to approve such a thing, is it. And that kind of thing is a practice, obviously, not obvious, but we all know, practice everywhere, because without such instruments, it would probably be difficult for some projects to be financed through a concession model. So I mean, I don't see how I'm so worried and so scared that this sentence of the law is now suddenly doing something with some particular other goals, but just as it's prescribed, is it? I mean, maybe the wording of that item could have been something different, and I agree that we don't have to bring words directly to the word, if you have a better formulation proposal, but suggest an amendment, but we need to transpose the spirit of the directive, whether, we need to achieve the same possibility or the same goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40544	Thank you. Replicated MPs Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40545	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm glad you said that you agree that it doesn't have to be exactly like that and that it can change, because it needs to change, for starters it should be completely deleted, rewritten. However, I need to educate you again, so I tell you that there is no paragraph 4 in this article of the 41st Old Law on concessions, so there is absolutely no process after the restructuring. The most similar thing there is in a completely different article, which is an article on corporate restructuring and yet it does not apply to property, please read this old Law on concessions, because I know it, so I can tell you these things. A third thing, yeah, from where I'm afraid. So you know where the fear comes from? Let's go back to the factoring law, let's go back to a series of laws that went through this House if we can just see in this split around the Agrokor that's happening, that actually they've been pleasing him, here's just that fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40546	Dear Representative Josip Boric. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40547	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, we will deal with this story by the end of the day, but we agree on either the story of the Golden War or the article 66, 67. And now, based on the mayor's decision or the County Assembly, cities and municipalities can get a chance to give a concession on the maritime good if the concession is arranged. So, based on the request of the municipality or city if the mayor and the County Assembly approve it, the city or municipality can give concession to the maritime good. And the question is whether or not they asked for it, did they even want to make a concession when we're talking about this only problem that has now emerged as the one that bothers me to pass this quality law. Because we had an example, here's the town of Novalja the same story as the other end of Zrce beach. And we see that the local population almost 90% of them there are working neatly now and doing their job based on the concession given by the county. So there was cooperation between both the city and the county, even though there was a MOST in that city, for example, has its mayor. I mean, I don't see why today we keep trying to bend what this law clearly doesn't say or prescribe. But here's what we're turning that focus on, something that isn't really the subject of the debate at all. The law will come, we'll talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40548	Thank you very much. Now we'll take the usual break by 3:00. I'll see you again at 15.00 hours with a follow-up to this point. Thank you. Party at 13.25pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40549	Dear colleagues and colleagues. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We're continuing the plenary session. We continue with individual debates. It's time for my dear colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his right. Whether or not the applicant's representative has the final word. No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40550	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on concessions, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 75. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk reporting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40551	Mr. President, I suggest that we vote on the concession law at the end of our vote, given that experience tells me that we may take a little longer to do all the points we have today and I believe that with your political experience, you are also assessing it. So we have some choices and appointments so we can do it and get back to the concession law.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40552	The proposal is good-looking, but I can't respect it because we've determined the dynamics we're going to vote on, so we're going to stick to that dynamic. The proposer of this law is as I said, the government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The Club of Representatives of the SDP and the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists propose to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: A third reading will be carried out on the Final Proposal of the Law on concessions. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to make a statement on the proposed conclusion, and here with us is Željko Tufekčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40553	President, honourable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives, the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a proposal does not accept the proposal for a conclusion that the Law on concessions goes into third reading. In accordance with Article 203 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, "the third reading is carried out according to the decision of the Croatian Parliament, but at the request of the proposer, when a number of amendments have been submitted to the text of the law or such amendments are such as to significantly alter the content of the final draft law". Therefore, the Proposer maintains that it is not necessary to implement the third reading of the law and that the reasons for carrying out the third reading contained in the cited provision of the Rules of Procedure are not met. In fact, 32 amendments have been submitted formally following our proposal for legislation, of which 4 have been submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, while the clubs of MPs and MPs have submitted 28 amendments, many of which are equally identical, i.e. identical. These 28 amendments have been submitted to 11 articles of the law, which is about 10% of the total number of articles of the law, but most importantly, the content of the amendments is not such that it substantially changes the content of the final draft law. What I would further like to point out is that the Law on concessions is a roof law that frameworkally regulates the area of concessions, while special laws of sectoral law therefore provide for more detailed concessions in certain areas such as those. It's a good sea. The law passed the public consultation procedure in February and March last year and there were no more serious objections during the consultation. Also, the law has been drawn up very thoroughly, and in cooperation with all resolutions and in very close cooperation with the DORH, all their observations and views have been respected, especially when it comes to the protection of national wealth, natural wealth, publishing rights, transfer of concessions, etc. And the law has de facto three times passed the government's procedure and the alignment between the corridors. The law passed the first reading without serious objections and received support from as many as 117 MPs, with only 2 votes against. In the second reading, it did not change significantly, but less technical changes occurred, and based on the debate in the Assembly, the penalties in the infringement provisions were reduced. Otherwise, the law much better prescribes a number of procedures, primarily the concession procedure, the obligation to study justification, and this is exactly how the legal solution will contribute to the transparency of procedures and the less scope of abuse, procedures and regulations alone. The concession contract becomes an administrative contract, which rightly strengthens the position of the public body, i.e. the grantor. The main remarks made during the second reading are in fact the Law on maritime good and seaports, which sets out in more detail the procedures themselves and the general concessions on maritime good. In view of all of the above, we think that the law is really good and that it should not go into its third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40554	Thank you. I therefore vote on the proposal for a conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, which the Government does not accept. Please, let's vote. I find that with 74 votes against and 41 votes to, this proposal has not passed. Now we're going to vote on the amendments. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, representatives Arsen Bauk, Goran Aleksic, Ivan Lovrinović, the House of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA and the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I would like a representative of the motionary of the Secretary of State to be shown in the following order. The first is the amendment of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40556	The Proposer shall accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40557	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40558	The proposer does not accept this amendment. In particular, the representative body of the units of local self-government shall determine which activities it will carry out by awarding the concession in accordance with specific laws and shall establish the preparatory actions and concession procedure in accordance with the provisions of the concession laws and specific laws which detail the issues relating to the activity and the area of concession. In this respect, the applicant does not determine who the concessionr is, but is also regulated by specific rules in a given area and the type of concession itself. Therefore, the units of local and regional self-government shall specify in detail who, or which body, adopts a concession decision and who signs a concession contract and all in accordance with the provisions of the specific rules accordingly, in the final proposal of the Law on concessions in that article, the competent authority shall, in the light of the diversity in the statutes of the units of local or regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40559	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Ninčević-Lesandric club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40560	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I disagree with your argument asking for a vote and I would just like to say or ask you if you are aware that this is how you allowed the Golden War case to happen to us every week? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40561	I am voting on amendments to the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, which the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Next amendment to the number of three MPs, Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40562	The amendment is not accepted. The concession law stipulates that the concession can be granted for use of water. Specific issues related to the award of concessions for the use of water are laid down by special law, and in this particular case, this is the Water Act. The concession can therefore be granted for the economic use of water, but not for public water supply and public disposal activities, except in cases of public wastewater treatment, wastewater disposal from septic caves, and public irrigation or public irrigation or public irrigation activities. Public water supply and disposal activities are carried out as a public service which is of interest to local self-government units in the service area, and we believe that water services must continue to be provided under non-discriminatory and socially acceptable conditions. In addition, one of the essential elements of why public sewage and water supply services are not concentrated is to ensure their sustainable development and the continuous increase in water quality of services, and that municipal water buildings are maintained permanently in a state of functional capacity. It should also be pointed out that the water represents an extremely strong economic potential and its exploitation either for the sake of bottled and sold on the market or for the construction of large, small hydropower plants should be considered and considered in the context of economic rational models, where this law sets out the procedures for giving in a very clear way, and the specificities are further elaborated through specifics, in which it is irrefutable that water is protected through a specific law. Finally, Article 8(2) of the Law provides that the concession cannot be granted over forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia. I believe, by reason of this, that the law itself has absorbed the requested amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40563	I don't see MP Lovrinovic, so I am voting this conclusion, so an amendment not accepted by the government. The vote is over. The amendment didn't get any votes. Now we move on to the fourth amendment, it's an amendment to the Live Wall and SNAGA Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40564	The amendment is not accepted. The use of water has already been explained in addition to the previous amendment, and regarding the issue of maritime goods, we point out that Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the sea coast and islands declared to be good of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The law on ownership and other real rights stipulates that the seashore as a general good is not capable of being a property and other real rights object. They are managed by the general good and managed by the Republic of Croatia if the special law is not otherwise laid down. In view of the above, the Republic of Croatia recognised maritime well-being as the largest resource and has the same consciously and responsibly to protect national interests by the fact that the maritime well-being cannot be privatised but is available through the concession institute. The Law on concessions creates all assumptions for the thorough regulation and improvement of the use of maritime goods through the application and harmonisation of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports with the Law on concessions, as well as the protection of maritime goods as well as better management of the same. As regards the issue of agricultural land, we stress the current legal framework does not recognise the concession as a possibility of making agricultural land available, but the agricultural land is leased in accordance with the Agricultural Land Act. Concessions for agricultural land in the register of concessions, they are given prior to the entry into force of the Agricultural Land Act which is regulated that agricultural land can be leased and long-term leased. [[Intruder President: Please colleagues and colleagues a little bit of silence please!]] Therefore, existing concession contracts for agricultural land remain in force until the end of the contractual relationship, but new concessions for the use of agricultural land cannot be granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40565	Thank you. I'm asking the amendment promoter to manifest himself. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club? No one will be obvious, then I am voting on this proposal for an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so we move on to Amendment number 5 of MPs Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40566	The amendment is not accepted. An explanation on the issue of maritime goods and has already been given in addition to the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40567	We are not here with our esteemed colleague Lovrinovic, so let us also vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move to amendment number six of the Most Independent Lists' Representatives' Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40568	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant considers that in the final proposal for a concession law as a roof law, a sufficiently regulated concession procedure is sufficient, with specific legislation allowing for more detailed regulation of issues relating to public involvement in the concession procedure. For example, in the concession of the maritime good unit local self-governments are involved in preparatory actions for concessions, in two steps. The first is spatial planning, because it is precisely a spatial plan that defines what is the purpose of which is part of the space that is the basis for concessioning. And the second step, or second element of each unit of local self-government, is to adopt a Maritime Good Management Plan. What plan defines which parts of the maritime goods remain in general use, and which parts are intended to be given for economic use? This proposal for a law, including the public in the concession procedure, does not in any way prevent the provision of sufficient space to decide on the appointment and composition of members of the expert commission of any concession provider.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40569	Here is colleague Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40570	I don't agree with your explanation. Just these preparations, the shops, the steps you've listed in the Gold War case, so they didn't help us make it happen. Likewise, exactly what you just said we will have, again every week, this same Golden War, and I would like to point out that you mentioned that there is no need for public or public interests, so it's a good thing that you didn't mention this time that we are being held back by the directives, since we still have one regulation... The convention, which is above all these directives and by which we should just implement what you have said needlessly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40571	You got it. We then vote on an amendment which the motionary does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. And I call on my colleagues to concentrate. Seven, amendment to the Living Wall and Power Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40572	The amendment is not accepted In addition to the reasons set out above, almost identical to the previous amendment, we point out once again, as the proposer considers that the issue of public involvement in the concession procedure is sufficiently regulated in this law, with a special law which allows for more detailed regulation of these issues, and this law does not in any way... [[Intruder: Please, colleagues and colleagues.]] does not restrict. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40573	My colleagues and colleagues, I'd really like to ask you for some respect for each other, because there's nothing the secretary of state says and yet to concentrate for another time, so we'd be working in a normal atmosphere. Please continue. If you're done, then I see a colleague of Bunjac reporting on behalf of the Living Walls Club and the SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40574	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you say the motion is considered to be sufficiently protected, but Croatian citizens do not consider it. They made it clear to you here in front of this Parliament, seven days ago, that they don't think so. Well, now we can vote in favour of your opinion, i.e. for the opinion of the Croatian people, for this reason I call for us to vote in favour of the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40575	I am voting on amendments that the applicant does not accept. I find that the above amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. Moving to Amendment 8. Dear colleagues Goran Aleksic and Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40576	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation has already been given with the previous two amendments. It must be stressed that the new Law on Maritime Goods and Seaports is in preparation, and this will be in line with the proposed roof law on concessions, which regulate the general conditions of action, precisely with the aim of increasing transparency and activating concessions as an important economic instrument.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40577	I'm a colleague of Bauk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40578	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, there's an incredible thing going on, you'd even say a scientifically fantastic thing. We propose that local self-government participate in the concession process, while HDZ mayors vote against. Isn't that awesome? Between the party and your citizens, you chose the party and I congratulate you on that. I'm asking for a vote, that you vote against yourself three times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40579	Okay, please, colleagues and colleagues, let's be parliamentary. Let us vote on this amendment, which the Proposer does not accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required majority. We move on to Amendment number 9, Advocacy Bridge Club of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40580	The amendment is not accepted. This issue is regulated by the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the establishment of a strategy for the development of social entrepreneurship, it is not necessary to define it under this law, as proposed by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40581	Please show the amendment's promoter. Is there anyone on behalf of the Bridge Representatives Club? He won't, if he won't, then he's making a suggestion... Just a little please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please make a deal before, so we don't improvise this way. Do you want to answer the word?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40582	I answered my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40583	No, you didn't answer your word, you just got up after 15 seconds of consulting each other. I'm asking you to stick to some kind of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40584	So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40585	Ha, there must be a vote anyway. Therefore, I am voting on this amendment which the applicant does not accept. I find that the amendment has not passed. We move to Amendment 10 of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Club. My fellow Milosevic, I ask you all to stop throwing and calm down. Let's not raise any tensions, because there's no reason for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40586	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is identical to Amendment 9, so that the reasons for the same exact explanation for Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40587	Is there anyone on behalf of the amendment promoter? If not, we are going to vote for amendments that the applicant does not accept. Neither did this amendment get a sufficient number of votes. We are now moving on to Amendment number 11 of the re-legislators Goran Aleksic and Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40588	And this amendment is identical to the previous two so that the explanation is identical to the previous two arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40589	Thank you. Dear fellow Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40590	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State. The island's movement organised a petition that was joined by local administrations and NGOs, and they all demanded that certain changes in the law take place, and they primarily demanded that a third reading be conducted. So I believe that with your behaviour you do not accept the opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and ask for a vote, although I know what the result will be. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40591	Let us approach the vote on an amendment which the applicant does not accept. I find that the amendment has not passed. We move to the 12th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40592	The amendment is not accepted in addition to a given explanation or response to the proposed amendment to Article 14 concerning the issue of the expert commission. We state that the concession provider regulates competition issues and is obliged to take care of it and, accordingly, form a commission that will satisfy all the necessary expertise and other knowledge, depending on the subject and the type of concession to be given. In this respect, we note that a specific law may further regulate an area specific to public service or any other concession affecting certain areas within the frameworks for which it is granted. As this law is said, it does not restrict it in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40593	Is anyone gonna take a word on behalf of the Independent List Representatives' Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40594	I don't agree with the... argument and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40595	Please join the vote on this amendment which the applicant does not accept. I also find that this amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We're moving on to the 13th Amendment of the Living Wall and the Power Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40596	This is an amendment that is identical to Amendment 12 so that the explanation is the same in the previous amendment. The applicant does not accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40597	Thank you. Will someone comment on behalf of the Living Wall and the Power Club? If not, then I am voting on this amendment which the applicant does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. We move on to the next, again representatives Goran Aleksic and Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40598	The amendment is not accepted in the same way as the previous amendment, the amendment is identical to the number 12 for which I have given an explanation so that the explanation for this amendment is identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40599	Thank you. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40600	This situation is even more absurd. It is therefore proposed that a representative of the local community in which the subject of the concession is located be required to be appointed in the Expert Commission for concession. And now, let's say the Primorje-Gorski County opens a tender and Boric says we won't be in a concession in Lopar, it doesn't matter or Klaric in Bakr. Well, that's what we SDPs are gonna do, and I'm gonna trust you so much, really, just so you know what it's all about. It is proposed that representatives of the local community join the commission, and that the present mayors vote against. This is what everything in politics in Croatia can happen to us. Therefore, honourable mayors, I congratulate you once again and ask for the vote to vote again against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40601	Thank you very much. I ask you colleagues and colleagues, the representative has the right to say in his explanation what is not true if he thinks it is true and let us not enter into his word and interrupt him. I therefore put to the vote amendments which the applicant does not accept. The amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes, so let's move on to amendment number 15 of the Alliance's representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40602	The amendment is not accepted. As pointed out in the response to the previous almost identical amendments, we stress that the proposer considers that this law sufficiently regulates the question of the concession procedure in which specific laws can be detailed on issues relating to the involvement of the interested public in the concession procedure. We note that the public is already involved in the adoption of a spatial plan and a maritime good governance plan as preconditions for the launch of the concession procedure. This ensures public interest and respects the importance of the public in the concession procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40603	Does anyone want a name? Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40604	Imported to the Proposer. Of course you won't accept this amendment and of course the concessions are perfectly arranged as seen in the Golden War. It's enough to be friends with the mayor, it's enough to open a company without one employee and get it in a concession and no kuna on the account and transfer that concession afterwards, you can transfer that concession to whoever you want, but before that you can give it to a mortgage or a claim. So I'm asking for a vote because it's really been okay so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40605	Let us also vote on this amendment which the Proposer does not accept. I find that he has not received enough votes, so we move on to amendment number 16 of MPs Goran Aleksic and Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40606	The amendment is not accepted. It is noted that Articles 18 and 19 of this Act regulates the question of a justification study and, inter alia, it is prescribed that the eligibility study takes into account the public interest and compliance with the economic development plans of the concession and is carried out through the professional commission’s tasks, as set out in Article 16, in paragraph 12, point 1 regulates the question of the involvement of the expert commission with the concessionor in the design of the case-law study itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40607	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40608	Therefore, the proposal is an amendment to add the report on the participation of the interested public in the assessment of the eligibility of the concession to some study. Look at the copy-past, add everything okay. This is how you have a report from the interested public on the street, on the portals, on TV, in front of the Parliament, on shagamans on the beach, so it's easier for you to accept the amendment than to provoke again protests. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40609	Then let us approach the vote on this amendment which the Proposer does not accept either. I also find that this amendment has not received the required majority. So we move on to Amendment No. 17. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40610	The amendment is not accepted. As pointed out in the response to the previous, almost identical amendment, we stress that this issue has been sufficiently regulated in this roof law, with specific legislation allowing for more detailed regulation of issues relating to the area of concessions and different types of concessions. In this way, the public interest is ensured and nothing reduces the importance of public access to those data.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40611	Thank you. Who on behalf of the amendment promoter? Dear fellow Bull?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40612	With this proposal, this amendment would regulate concessions and sub-concessions that are given and awarded in a way that can be given to a third party without a competition, without being able to include someone but simply be eligible, you can give the concession, transfer it to the third person as you wish, and of course they will vote in favour of the HDZ club but it is unfortunate that this way can award concessions. And I'm asking for a vote, and I'm interested in how my Dalmatians will vote, and here I'm going to start with Mr. Sanader, Mrs. Peric, I'm very interested in Mr. Šipic, Mr. Babic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40613	I ask you to join the vote and this amendment that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. 18. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40614	The amendment is not accepted. This amendment is identical to Amendment No. 17th, therefore, the previous amendment is therefore also an explanation for the refusal of amendments to the same previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40615	Thank you. Does anyone come forward on behalf of the amendment promoter? If not, I am voting on this amendment which the Government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. 19th, it is an amendment to the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40616	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40617	And it becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 20. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40618	The applicant also accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40619	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the law. No. 21. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40620	The amendment is not accepted. We point out that the Law on concessions particularly regulates the issue of preparatory work, so eligibility studies, tender documentation, assessment of the value of the concession, the reasons for the exclusion of the economic operator, the impact of the concession on public debt, etc. The same solution is in accordance with both the provisions and the Public Procurement Act, thus ensuring transparent treatment at all stages of concession giving the highest degree of protection of public interest, i.e. the property of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40621	Anybody want some? Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40622	With this amendment that we have given, we would essentially get from the local self-government of participation, local self-government would fight to in their area of mineral raw materials of all goods, agricultural land, maritime goods, and I am very interested in how the National Minorities Club, for example. Mr. Pupovac, the prominent Social Democrats, will stand in the protection of public interest, which will be written tomorrow in Novostim, which will be said by Đikić Kosanovic or this is really the only thing we can and we know to side with the construction or perhaps because of this he became Secretary of State Mr. Mile Horvat yesterday at the Ministry of Environment and Energy. I'm interested in gentlemen from the HDZ Club if you'll be willing to support our mineral raw materials, to take on agricultural land, marine goods, especially you from my proud Dalmatia. Sing behind ".../The speaker understands n./... is our country". I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40623	We are voting on an amendment which the applicant does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. So we move on to Amendment No. 22, again, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40624	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with Article 48(1), The concession law on service concessions and concessions for the economic use of general or other well-evaluationd values above the value threshold as the selection criterion of the most favourable offer shall apply to the most economically favourable offer, while a second criteria for selecting the most favourable offer is prescribed for the concession below the threshold as the highest offered concession fee. In this way, it is possible for the concession provider to choose which criteria will be applied to select the most favourable bid depending on the type and subject matter of the concession. Since this law prescribes a concession procedure for different types of concessions, depending on the complexity of the same and on the estimated value of the concession provider, it is possible to assess which criterion will apply, the economic, most favourable offer or criterion of the above offered fee. This enables the development of simpler and more complex concessions in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40625	Thank you. It's my colleague Bulj again.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40626	Well, of course they're good criteria for you, enough to be friends with the mayor and that's the Ministry of Maritime Affairs after a number of citizens' actions mainly on Bol in Brac, that's the Golden War where they pointed to the criteria that were given concessions. It's enough to be a friend and open a company without a kuna, to emphasize inside that there is no employee, enough to write how much you will invest in all concessions, so far nothing has been invested. So from Zrć to Gruž, Lapada, a pardon in Dubrovnik, and mainly in Split-Dalmatia County, I am also interested in how to vote here, for example, the former mayor of Ante Sanader, my fellow parliamentary representative, on this issue, that the concessions in Split-Dalmatia County are well managed, is well managed by maritime good, mineral raw materials and I am interested in what former President Josipovic said, that Milorad Pupovac can save Tito's board, I don't believe that he will try, but I know that he can save the public good, so I expect all of these fellow MPs here to save the public well and to leave a small plate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40627	Let us vote on this amendment which the Proposer does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 23, "Living Wall Representatives' Club" and "SNAGA".
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40628	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the amendment is identical to the previous amendment so that the justification for its non-acceptation is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40629	We have no one to say anything on behalf of the amendment promoter, so I am voting and this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment did not receive the necessary majority, so we move on to the number 24, Agents Goran Aleksic and Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40630	The amendment is not accepted. So this amendment is identical to Amendments 22 and 23, so the explanation is the same as for the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40631	A colleague of Alexic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40632	So, thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, I am sorry that you do not accept a single amendment, and most of the amendments are acceptable, that they are possible, that it is nothing terrible, and that all that has happened so far, that nothing, absolutely nothing by the opposition is accepted. I don't think we're going to get far, and that someone will always be unhappy, some kind of compromise is always possible, and it would be good if at least some of it were accepted. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40633	I am also voting on this amendment which the applicant does not accept. He did not get the required majority, so we move on to Amendment 25, MP Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40634	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal of the Competition Act is prescribed that the concession provider is obliged to publish the concession decision without delay as well as its changes in the electronic public procurement notice of the Republic of Croatia on the standard form. The concessions register shall include all concession contracts which the concessionor is tossing with the concessionary, as well as all amendments thereto, and as prescribed in Article 79. The final proposal of the Law on concessions and the Regulation on the 2013 Register of concessions. Public data The Register of concessions is available to the public as a whole, free of charge, on the website of the Ministry of Finance and FINA, and we repeat that these data are public and completely free of charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40635	Thank you. We move to vote, this amendment is not accepted by the Government, vote. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. We're moving on to number 26, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40636	The Proposer shall accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40637	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Number 27, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40638	The amendment is not accepted. As regards this article and the proposed amendments, we point out that various situations may arise during the duration of the Treaty on concession which will require the amendment of the Treaty. It is prescribed that changes to the contract are considered important and in these cases a new concession procedure should be implemented, so it is prescribed when changes are relevant. One of the major changes that have been identified is the change of concessionaries. Exceptionally, the change in concessionaires, whether in whole or in part, does not matter to amend the Treaty on concessions if they arise as a result of the corporate restructuring of concessionaires, as long as this does not constitute other significant amendments to the Treaty on concessions and is not done in order to avoid the application of this law. The transfer of the concession Treaty is intended exclusively with the agreement of the concession provider and constitutes a normal business practice allowing for the continuation of the Treaty on concessions and certain unforeseen and economically unfavourable situations. It is important to stress that the transfer of the contract is only possible provided that the third party fulfils the conditions of the ability set out for the concessionaire in the tendering documentation and notice of the intention to award the concession. It is referred to as the provisions of Article 512 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Act on Commercial Companies which prescribes the accession and merger of stock companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40639	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40640	Thank you very much. For the purposes of this Article, paragraph 66 is replaced by the following: It's pawned, on the concession right or mortgage. I do not know how to explain it in Split HNS Mr Gjurkovic, I do not know how the young parliamentary representative Mr Ante Bačić Baco will be able to tell the citizens that these concessions of beaches, ports can go to mortgage but under privileged conditions. He must be good, hyper-good with the mayor, exclusively politically-like. How will you explain this to your coalition partner Mr Gjurković to the people of Dalmatia, that the wealth that anyone can raise a concession, and we here in Zagreb decide on them at Bol, on Komiža where Mr Bačić, in Vodice, with Korčula pardon, Korčula or any island or in Zadar Mrs Grozdan. Please, please concession on public well-being, concession on public well-being and on this raised credit, allow someone to mortgage it, i.e. The law of the public. Maria Puh HNS, Mr. Saucha, you were a prominent socialist. Indeed, this is all about principles, about giving capitalism swings against the interests of the people. I'd ask you all not to let this happen. The Dalmatians sent you here. So look what we're doing? [[The incursion president: Thank you, your time is up.]] We in Zagreb are taking the land...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40641	Thank you very much. Time's up. I am voting on amendments that the applicant does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Moving to Amendment 28. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40642	The amendment is not accepted. It is essentially the same amendment as the previous one, so the reasons for the previous amendment also applies to this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40643	Thank you. No one is answering for a word, so let's go to the vote and talk about this amendment that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. We move on to Amendment 29 of Representatives Goran Aleksic and Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40644	The amendment is not accepted. It is also the same amendment as Amendment 27, so the reasons for this amendment are the same as the reasons for Amendment 27.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40645	Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40646	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't know if you know the concept of pseudo entrepreneurs. Pseudo entrepreneur is a man who has virtually nothing. The age is something that is social and then socially available as it will and eventually even comes to real estate, and real estate is sold out and as such a pseudo entrepreneur takes advantage of the entire infrastructure, puts everything in his pocket and destroys the entire social property. However, this isn't about the same thing because it's not about ownership, it's about ownership. However, it is very dangerous to give someone such a pseudo-entrepreneur who does not have the capital to receive credit on the basis of a concession and on the basis of this loan, a creditor is entitled to a concession. It's very dangerous when it comes to public good, and I find it something that needs to be banned that can't be allowed. And that's why I'm asking for a vote, even though I know what the result will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40647	Please join the vote on this amendment which the Government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes, so let's move on to Amendment 30. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40648	The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the right to concessions is clearly regulated and specified in the section relating to financial institutions, and it is also one of the usual business practices that enables the development and financing of different concession projects. In relation to maritime well-being, the Law on concessions does not question the strategic importance of the maritime goods themselves, but as much as the provisions of the roof law are clearly unequivocal and transparently governed by the conduct of the concession procedure itself. The specificities of concessions on the maritime good must necessarily be set out in a specific sectoral law, which states that eradicating the provisions on publishing law in its nature would lead to less attractiveness of concession models and methods of financing, which is also the intensity of both the Directives and this legal act, which is very detailed in accordance with the National Law of the Republic of Croatia during the drafting of the law itself. Furthermore, concessions should be regarded as a project where risks are borne by a private investor and in very rare cases a concession project can be implemented without funding through a bank or other financial institutions loan. The right to exercise is only one of the means of ensuring risk and it does not refer to maritime well-being but refers to the right to concession, and is reduced with the time of application of the concession as such. The abolition of these provisions would allow for a more serious development of larger concession projects which rarely have very complex financial structures. Moreover, in order to protect the assets and interests of the Republic of Croatia, it should be noted that this concession law recognises as an administrative contract, which in its nature is the public side, hence the concessionor which sets the public side as a stronger side, which further protects the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that this further protects public interests and reduces the possibility of manipulation, as the public has the possibility of easier termination of concession contracts as regards any form of concession in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40649	Since no one is present, of those who have proposed this amendment, I am voting on it, the government does not accept this amendment. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. We're moving on to the last amendment. That's number 31. Representatives Goran Aleksic and Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40650	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is identical to Amendment No 30, so the answer to the amendment and the reasoning of the refusal equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40651	None of the amendment's proposed. So I'm putting him to the vote. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. And we move on to the last amendment. It's an amendment to the Advocacy List Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40652	The amendment is not accepted. As previously stated on the proposed amendments and related to the right to tender, we point out that it is also clearly regulated and set out in the section relating to financial institutions, and it is one of the usual business practices, which enable the development and financing of different concession models. What is important to stress is that the right to be granted is granted exclusively with the consent of the concession provider, so only with the consent of the concession provider. The specificities of concessions must necessarily be set out in a specific sectoral law, which states that eradicating the provisions on publishing law, in its nature led to less attractiveness of concession models and methods of financing this model, which is the intensity of both the directives and this legislative act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40653	Explanation. Proposer, here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40654	Here you would really like colleagues to vote in favour of this amendment, to delete the right to concession, to our maritime well-being, to agricultural land, to sources, to all that Croatia has, minerals, raw materials, agricultural land. Like what? I'm looking at my colleague, the Dalmatian girl, so it'll be in Basko water, we'll give everything in concession and mortgage. How would you feel? How would the head of the municipality feel? How would people feel if that's how it's done? I really ask you all together to think carefully and look at it, it's our fortune and to delete this article about the mortgage on public good. It protects the public interest. This is one bad law, because the people of Dubrovnik, a colleague... It knows very well that we have problems in Dubrovnik with the award of concessions and ports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we all know down below, I call on my Dalmatians, my colleague Zekanovic, not to count everything in order, please, this item on the pawn's right, about the mortgage on our good, should be deleted. Let's not give you legitimacy. Let us not give us legitimacy, that someone decides down in Dalmatia or Slavonia on agricultural land and on maritime good, that someone who sits in Zagreb in Parliament, not people who are on the ground, as local administration. So here's my colleague Šipić that Sinjsko polje is a large part of state property. So we'll give it to someone without consent, you, me, the people, the mayor, the mayor, under concession, and that they can mortgage it, under a foreign bank, make foreign banks our owners and maritime goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40655	Thanks, buddy Bull. This amendment is not accepted by the Government. Please vote. I find that the amendment has not received a sufficient number of votes. We've exhausted all the amendments, thank you to the Secretary of State. The word comes from an esteemed colleague, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40656	Mr. President, before the vote, please pause for 10 minutes to decide what kind of vote the club will vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40657	Wait a minute. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have to approve this break, because it's consistent with what the rules of procedure say. A colleague of mine called.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40658	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Also on behalf of the Bridge Club, we're looking for a break before the vote of 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40659	And distinguished colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40660	Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I believe there's no reason for a break. About this concession law, we searched three times this morning for breaks and respected colleagues had already had an opportunity to manifest themselves on one side. On the other hand, we have carried out the voting procedure on the Law on concessions, where all relevant remarks, which are included in the amendments, have been discussed. And on the third hand, for the first time, the clubs and we MPs get a voting plan. The voting plan said it was to vote on the concession law. Dear colleagues from the Bridge Club and the SDP Club could agree during yesterday afternoon and today's morning on how this law will vote, therefore... I don't think there are any conditions for giving a break, but if you think you have a right, and they have a right to the rules of procedure to get a break, then I, too, on behalf of the HDZ Club, but I say there are no reasons for... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40661	Thank you very much. Just, so what's that... Please, so please... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] So I'm asking you, so you're going to get a break, especially from your SDP colleagues, they really didn't have time to discuss this, they had other problems. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] So we're taking a break and I'll see you in 10 minutes at 14.15. [[MEETING AT 14.00 HOURS]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.10 HOURS]] Dear colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40663	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40664	Comrades and colleagues, please take your seats and be a little quieter so that colleague Bauk can deliver his opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40665	Thank you. So, two, three weeks ago, we had a protest outside the Croatian Parliament that occupied quite a lot of public attention and parliamentary majority or I believe the Prime Minister decided not to put the Law on concessions to the vote probably to make noise less, some other day. Now that we're dating through arbitration in Piran Bay, when we're dating Marshal Tito's Square, when we're dating other things, then under the radar, it's tried to put the concession law to the vote, even though when he pulled out of the vote, it's been said that the proposals of NGOs, the island movement and others protesting the concession law will be discussed. And this has been considered in a way that no amendments have been accepted that have been made by NGOs and others. For example, my colleague Goran Aleksic and I and the Most and Living Wall Club have submitted seven amendments to this law that can be divided into two groups. One concerned exclusively the increased participation of local self-government, so cities and municipalities, city and municipal councils, mayors and commissioners in commissions that would decide on concessions in their area. Indeed, as the secretary of state said, it is not some revolutionary change. After all, they too could have been voted in this council. The second group of amendments concerned the proposal to increase the role of the public so as to increase the role of the public as part of the consultation with the interested public. It's not accepted either. So you can only hear a little more. The third group of amendments was also about the reintegration of the public in cases where in some special places a little more would be involved in the event that the concession would be given to someone else. So these were three groups of our seven amendments that would fix the law, increase transparency and, as the secretary of state said, wouldn't change much. Mr. Tufekčić doesn't have it now. So, two, three months ago, I had the honour of speaking in front of the County Assembly of the Split-Dalmatia County about the award of concessions on the beach Zlatni rat, under the old law. It may not be very different under this law, because we actually had a previous debate here or a zero reading of the new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. I'm watching who signed up on behalf of his clubs, we're all three from the 10th constituency, so this was a previous debate on the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. It's a good place to stay. It's a 10-year-old Grmoya. Therefore, amendments could be accepted and the fears of NGOs from the island around the law could be tempered. Since this has not been done, we are left to share their doubts about good intentions in the adoption of this law, about the way concessions are awarded, especially those on the maritime good. And in support of NGOs and the movement of the island, the SDP MPs club will not take part in the vote on the concession law that the few ruling majority are sweating to collect quorum because even when voting on amendments was on their hands. We will closely monitor the implementation of this law, I believe that the public will also do so, this time we will stay away from difficult words. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues on your conscience are going to pass this law without in my opinion a minimal effort to have these people protesting on islands and on the coast and protesting outside the Croatian Parliament heard. And because of all of the above, the SDP's club cannot support this law and will not take part in the vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40666	Thank you. The second is the esteemed colleague, Nikola Grmoy, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40667	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. The main argument of HDZ in pushing this law is that this law has received support in the first reading. The law received support in the first reading that it could go into the second reading, in the second reading there were a series of remarks, amendments and none of the amendments to the opposition were of any quality to enter this law. All of Dalmatia, the movement of the island, associations, citizens, our people from Primorje and asked for a third reading. And just as my colleague said before me, this way of passing laws in the shadow of this arbitration where we found out this morning that we would vote on this point, and it was delayed, shows that there are some hidden intentions. So the ruling majority did not accept any of the amendments to the opposition and we do not have anything else left when the ruling means Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric do not want to hear the cry of Dalmatia, cry for the island, cry for our people not to vote on this law. Most of it's thin, but I can see that's where prof. Lovrinovic, who has not given any amendments and we have one schizophrenic situation to Professor. Lovrinovic is making amendments to this bill. A member of his presidency entered the government as state secretary, a member of his party's presidency, Ivica Misic, supports this government. You don't know who's acting or who's ruling or who's resisting. And well, my colleague Bulj called out certain MPs, especially a representative from Dalmatia, representatives from Primorje, here I see my head and colleague Peric, my colleague Grozdan and others. I invite you all, here's one vote, maybe two votes are enough to keep this law from going through and going into third reading. He also mentioned counterpart Bulj to representatives of the National Minorities, how fellow Pupovac and you well noticed this would justify the news that he did not side with the public good, because they are always on the sidelines of public goods, how he will justify this move to reporters Djikic, Kosanovic and others. I am interested in what my colleague Lovrinović will do now, what all the MPs from Dalmatia will do, all these citizens and those who have gathered here in Mark's Square but all of them throughout Dalmatia will be watching this. My colleague Zekanovic looks at me, and here he is enough and another representative not to vote for this so that this law does not pass. I invite you all to resist this attempt to pass this law under the grain.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40668	Dear colleague Branko Bacic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40669	Mr. President of the Parliament, since my name has been mentioned too often in this discussion, I ask you to protect me from these unargumented and assumed behaviors. I asked to be given the opportunity to speak for the club, but I was told I couldn't do it anymore. That's why I'm looking for a break just for these reasons, this is an important question to consult because I don't want this important question about concessions to push someone and assume they're going to vote, how they're going to talk, I won't allow it. Protect me and other members of the MPs from this kind of meal and this kind of petty commercial bill and I'll have my voice and what I'm saying but let me say.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40670	I'm sorry, colleague Lovrinović, first you didn't say which article was injured, that's one thing. And the other thing is, you weren't here at the time of the debate, no one called you or mentioned you in any negative context, so I can't give you a break. And if you feel that your right is violated, please contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. He's a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40671	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238, the MP did not speak on the subject under discussion, he announced that he would talk about the Law on concessions and then he started calling whoever he could, he had to vote. So Mr. Grumoja is the one who will determine who will vote, called personally, spoke about humanizing and forgot that he voted for this law a few months ago for and that his involvement in this House is exclusively populism and demagogy. They were not specific, nor did they say at any time what was disturbing to them specifically in the Law. It just bothers them that they've become an opposition, and that's where they'll stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40672	Thank you, thank you very much. There's a colleague of the Bunjac here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40673	Thank you very much President-in-Office of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 248, I am looking for a break on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA to discuss this topic which the representatives are talking about and now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40674	I'm sorry, pal Bunjac, at a time when the approved breaks you weren't here in the assembly and we can't give now to those who weren't there so that it would take forever. All that was to be said about this law, the amendments were said, and I approved the breaks even though it was thought there should be no pause. So I'm asking for your understanding. I can't give you a break, if you feel that your right is violated, please contact the committee responsible. My friend Bulj picked up first.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40675	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Article 238, which was not invited by his colleague Lovrinovic, you correctly warned him that he had not called on his colleague Grmoj, nor did his colleague Zekanovic, because he did not say a word of the truth, he only told the truth that the club in which Mr. Lovrinovic's party president is saying that a Mr. Misic is raising his hand here for this law, giving amendments to Mr. Lovrinovic while one of his vice presidents, secretary at the ministry, Mr. Juro Martinovic. He never told a single lie, not a single lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40676	A fellow Thunderbolt and what, what, please, please? Please, colleagues and colleagues, but what do you want, what am I?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40677	Therefore, I would ask you to stick to the Rules of Procedure and call on 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40678	Well, I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure, and he didn't get any injuries from the Rules of Procedure. So I didn't accept his law of violation of the Rules of Procedure as I don't accept yours, because there's no reason. A fellow Grmo? All right. [[Growling: Nothing, it's okay, it's okay.]] Okay. Then we have a final club of HDZ MPs for five minutes, colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40679	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I think I've been talking on behalf of the HDZ Club five or six times about the concession law. So first of all, what I want to say is that the Law on concessions regarding democratic procedure has passed all the democratic procedure that provides for the adoption of the law in the Croatian Parliament. Last February, a public debate was held on this month-long law where the interested public appeared with its remarks and suggestions on the law. Based on this public debate and the draft bill that was in that public debate, the Government made a proposal for a law that we discussed in February this year in the first reading. After the vote on the bill in the first reading, 119 MPs were present. Of that, 117 voted in favour of the text of the law and 2 were against it. This text of the law that was in the first reading and which received the support of 117 MPs is only almost normative, in the normative part changes in the second law. Thus, nothing important in this law was changed in the final bill of law compared to what was in the first reading. What was in the first reading, on the other hand, this bill, together with HDZ ministers, was agreed by the ministers of the Most who prepared the same bill and against whom they had nothing until the last 20 days. The whole problem with this law arose at the time when the Golden War beach was concessioned. What I'm saying is that the concession of the beach The Golden War, which was not made in accordance with the Law on the Maritime Good, or contrary to the Law on the Sea Good, has nothing to do with the Law on concessions, whatever the Law on concessions error in the concessioning of the beach The Golden War was created because of the non-compliance with the Law on the Sea Good, on which the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure made a decision and annulled that concession. Therefore, all that is happening at this time in the Croatian public, all objections about concessions concern the need to adopt a new Law on the Sea Good as we agree in the HDZ Club. We agree that a new Law on Maritime Goodness should be adopted, and we agree that this Law on Maritime Goodness must make functional decentralisation and financial decentralisation when it comes to concessioning and otherwise managing maritime goods. What is incorrect is what is repeated over and over again by colleagues Bauk and colleagues of Grmoja, which is that the interested public and citizens of units of local self-government do not participate in the concession process, they participate because without the interested public, without these same citizens, there are no spatial planning documents and spatial planning documents, and spatial planning documents are the basis and the location permit for concession, therefore citizens are involved in the concession process, and on the other hand I say so and I repeat that in the HDZ Club we agree that through the process of concessioning in particular the maritime goods that will be changed, the maximum involvement of local self-government units, i.e. that the concession of maritime goods should be reduced to a lower level. What is more important to me, it is not clear to me that colleagues from the Most, colleagues from the Living Wall, colleagues from the SNAGA, and colleagues from the SDP propose amendments, we discuss these amendments and then do not vote on them. I don't understand that. Are you behind those amendments? You're proposing an amendment and you're not voting for it. If you really cared about the adoption of these amendments, you would clearly show your right to vote on amendments, not amendments to amend the law, not vote on them, and accuse those who vote on these same amendments. That doesn't make much sense to me, nor do I understand it until the end, but it's your right, I'm just talking about your inconsistency. And one more thing I said on behalf of the club, Mr. President, days, tomorrow, we start parliamentary debates with the breaks of the concession law, you have introduced one right that has so far not been known in the Croatian Parliament, which is that the representatives' clubs are being held the day before the voting plan is delivered, and even though all clubs know in advance that this law will be voted on, they are looking for breaks. I think, Mr. President, that you really don't have the need anymore for what you've done, to continue with it, rather than to vote what it's going to be, and anyway, clubs are going to be looking for breaks, and we're going to give them three breaks, regardless of what you've put in a good procedure. Thank you, fellow Thunderbolt, for warning me, and I see an hour, don't worry, I stick to my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40680	Thank you, colleague Bacic. Thanks. Time's up. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Bulj and who was the other? And a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40681	Comrade Bačić, you have injured Article 238, because you are talking about a subject that is not at all the subject of debate. For what? Because you're telling lies. It's not true that nothing happened from first reading to second reading. In my first reading, I have no right to amendments, and there's been a Golden War, but as the top of the ice santa, as an ATM party, that's why this was the law now on the robbery of our natural resources and therefore we have the right to amendments. And we're aware that we don't have to vote because you're making most of it, and look how... [[Intruder President: colleague Bulj, just a minute, colleague Bulj...]] in the administrations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40682	I'm begging you, please let's calm down now. We started misusing the Rules of Procedure, raising tiles for what is not really the point, but I want to continue to discuss, we still have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, one is a colleague, one is a colleague, Bačić, who was now called, I ask you, then we will approach the vote. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40683	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40684	Comrade Lonchart, fellow Lonchart, I beg you, I beg you for silence now, please. Let's all calm down, let's all calm down. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40685	Thank you, Mr. President. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I wish to point out, is the one mentioned in Article 238, which was done on behalf of the HDZ Club in such a way as to degrade the MPs in the Croatian Parliament, that is to say, undermining their right to find appropriate moderation in order to exercise their rights during the parliamentary debate and vote, especially when they belong to the opposition. Dear fellow Bacic, the right of opposition, which you cannot deny us that when we estimate that we have a chance to push some proposal and even by breaking the quorum, we do so. What's more, when it comes to something this important, it's not our right, it's our obligation. Your attempt to take this right away from us is a harsh violation not only of the provisions of Article 238, but also of the principles of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40686	Thank you very much. Comrade Grbin, I understand what you're saying, but I'm assessing that my colleague Bacic did not intend to do it, nor did he do it in his presentation, so I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40687	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bulj and my colleague, Grbin, were injured by Article 238. Rules of Procedure. In fact, they demean another MP by claiming to be false. Not exactly a colleague of the coat of arms. I said your democratic right is what you did. You can listen to the stenogram, so that's not true. But then you don't know if you're for what you're proposing or not. Therefore, if you could show yourself about this, we made it clear what we were thinking. And another thing, my colleague Bulj, I also say to you that you are unconsciously falling into the trap of hostage law without knowing that by abolishing the right to concessions you go to the favorites, you go to the tycoons who can only invest without credit with the Croatian good And the rightful right of the people of the islands, [[Intruder President: Thank you, Mr. Bacic.]] All of us to invest. [[Adversity President: Comrade Bačić, colleague Bačić...]] Comrade Grmo, calm down a little bit. Because he's also, he's been replicating me personally all along. [[Incursion president: colleague Bačić, just a little.]] Therefore, fellow Bull needs to get a little familiar with the laws, so you'll be more clear about this together.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40688	Okay. I'm asking you now to calm down. Now what? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40689	Article 238, paragraph 5, I don't know exactly what his name was. He insulted me and said I was threatening a fellow colleague, Sauchi. My colleague Sauch was talking to us, not me to him. And so my colleague insulted me and threatened me and I beg you as chairman to react. I was perfectly decent, calm, sitting in my seat, and my colleague Sauch was talking to us, not me to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40690	Okay. Thank you very much. I don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, there's been an increase in tones that we all do from time to time, but I'm not giving any notices about that, so I'm not going to do it this time. We're going to vote now. I'm not sorry, but I'm sorry more. Dear colleagues and colleagues...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40691	In accordance with Article 255 of the basic Regulation, We're asking the Rules of Procedure for a name vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40692	That's what we're gonna have to do. Okay. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40693	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA's Club to discuss the role of the opposition in the Parliament. It'll do without a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40694	Okay. You can't get a break because you've exhausted all the options for a break and we're going to vote now. As the Rules of Procedure provides when a single vote is requested to take place. We will now go to an individual vote. Here's a colleague and a colleague, we'll join the individual vote now. I think I have to tell you that Article 255 of the entitled vote is defined when requested by the Advocacy Club or by the Proposer. So we have to do it that way. Here's my colleague, Bukarica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40695	Aleksić Goran, Babić Ante-za, Babić Vedran, Bačić Ante-za, Bačić Branko-za, Balić Marijana-za, Barišić Drazen-za, Batinić Milorad... Batinić Milorad... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , Bauk Arsen, Bedeković Vesna-za, Beljak Kreso, Bernardić Davor, Beus Richembergh Goran, Bilek Vladimir-za, Borić Josip-za, Brkić Miljan-za, Bulj Miro, Bunjac Branimir, Davor Ivo Stier-za, Culej Stevo-za, Čuraj Stjepan-za, Čelic Ivan-za, Ćosić Pero-za, Demetlika Tulio, Dobrović Slaven, Dodig Goran... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] , Dragovan Igor, Dumbović Darinko-za, Djakić Josip-za, Djujic Saša, Esih Bruna-anti, Felak Damir-za, Glasnović Željko-protest, Glavas Branimir-za, Glavasevic Bojan, Grbin Peđa, Grmoja Branko, Grmoja Nikola, Habek Mario, Hajdas Dončić Siniša, Hajduković Domagoj, Hasanbegović Zlatko-anti, Horvat Darko-za, Horvat Mile... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's no replacement, is there? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] She didn't take an oath. Yeah. Hrelja Silvano, Hrg Branko-za, Jandroković Gordan-za, Jankovich Robert-za, Jelkovac Marija-za, Jerković Romana, Josić Željka-za, Jovanovic Željko, Juričev-Martinčev Branka-za, Kajtazi Veljko-za, Karlić Mladen-za, Kirin Ivan-za, Klarić Tomislav-za, Klarin Ivan, Kliman Anton... , Klisović Joško, Komparić Devčić Ana, Kopić Vlatko-za, Kosor Darinko-za, Kovač Miro-za, Kovač Stjepan, Kovačić Ivan, Križanić Josip-za, Kustić Marijan-za, Lovrinović Željko, Lalovac Boris, Lekaj Prljaj Ermina-za, Lenart Željko, Lipoščak Tomislav-za, Lončar Davor-za, Lovrinović Ivan-anti, Lucić Franjo-za, Luc-Polanc Marta, Lukačić Ljubica-za, Ljubić Bozo-za, Madjer Mladen, Makar Bozica-za, Maksimčica Ljubica-za, Maras Gordan, Mateljan Damir,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, get serious. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm here now. Mateljan Damir, Matic Predrag, Mesic Jasen-za, Mikulić Andrija-za, Mikulić Domagoj-za, Miletic Boris, Milicevic Davor-za, Milosevic Boris-za, Milosevic Domagoj Ivan-za, Milic Orsat, Mišić Ivica... , Mrak-Taritaš Anka, Mrsić Miranda, Ninčević-Lesandrić Ivana, Opačić Milanka, Orepić Vlaho, Ostojić Ranko Panenić Tomislav, Parić Darko, Perić Grogdana-za, Pernar Ivan, Petin Ana-Marija, Petrijavcanin-Vukasnović Irena-za, Petrov Božo, Poddoljnjak Robert, Prelec Allen, Prgomet Drago-da, Puh Marija-za, Pupovac Milorad-za, Pusić Vesna, Putica Sanja-za, Radin Furio... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , Raguž Željko-za, Reiner Željko-za, Ronko Zdravko, Rosčić Dragica-za, Runtić Hrvoje, Sanader Ante-za, Saucha Tomislav-za, Sinčić Ivan, Sladoljev Marko, Sponza Giovannini, Stazić Nenad, Strenja-Linić Ines, Strečak Angelko-za, Šimić Marko-za, Šipić Miroslav-za, Škibola Marin, Škorić Petar-za, Šuker Ivan-za, Tomić Damir, Topolko Bernarda-za, Totgergeli Miro-za, Tudjman Miroslav-za, Turina-Đurić Nada, Tušek Žarko-za, Varda Recajmir-za, Varga Siniš, Vjeljiga Marko, Vidović Franko, Vladović Davor, Vlačinović Davor, Vućinović, Vučinović, Vučinović, Zkatić, Zkažović, Zkažović, Zkaž [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sagar Tomislav. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now you should call those who aren't the first time... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40696	You think it's bordering on common sense that we're calling people who aren't here now and they're out? But call just in case they don't say they were here. Just a little faster, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40697	Alšić Goran, Babić Vedran, Bauk Arsen, Beljak Krešo, Bernardić Davor, Beus Richenbergh Goran, Bulj Miro, Bunjac Branimir, Demetlika Tulio, Dobojić Slaven, Dragovan Igor, Dujić Saša, Žlasnović Sabina, Glavasevic Boja, Grčić Branko, Grmoja Nikola, Habek Mario, Hajdaš Donič, Hajduković Domagoj, Hrjelja Silvano, Jerković Romana, Jovanović Željko, Klarin Ivan, Klisović Joško, Komparić Devčić Ana, Kovac Stjepan, Kovac Ivana, Lalovac, Lalovac Željko, Luč-Planc Marta, Madjer Mladen, Matljan Damir, Matić Smir, Miljeljić Šta, Miljelj, Mirić, Mirić Mirić, Mirić, Mrović, Mrović, Mrović, Mrović, Mrović, Mirić, Mirić, Mrović, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan-P, Ž. Marko, Vidović Franko, Vlaović Davor, Vučetic Marko, Zmajlović Michael and Žagar Tomislav.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40698	I thank my colleagues, Bukarica. Here we count the votes and 77 votes were in favour, 4 were against, so I'm saying that with 77 votes in favour and 4 votes against the Treaty Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40699	I am now moving to the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plans of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2014 and 2015. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 33. The law on official statistics. The debate was conducted by the responsible Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Since we also have a proposal for annual statistical implementation in the Republic of Croatia in 2017, the applicant is also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was also conducted by the Committee on Finance. I suggest if you don't mind. What? Go ahead. I suggest we unite these two points. You got it. Here I call on the proposing representative to give an additional explanation for both the report and the proposal for an annual production plan of statistical activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40700	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, so first we have a report on the implementation of the annual verified plans of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and 2015. Therefore, each year, the DZS, in cooperation with other holders of official statistics, draws up a report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to providing information on the activities carried out, the report also contains a review of the most significant development activities, as well as the most interesting results of statistical expressions. In recent years, the reports have been modernised to highlight the importance of statistical research and contribute to visibility and reputation, not only of the DZS as the main holder, diseminator and co-ordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia, but also of the entire Croatian statistical system. The following best European practice related to the annual reporting of national statistical offices for 2014 and 2015 consists of 2 parts. The first part, other than the introduction in which the statistical area is briefly described, contains only those studies where they have been promoted, e.g. improving methodology, revisions, introducing new or modifying existing research to comply with national or European standards, and showing the results of the projects, or the development activities carried out in the year to which the report relates. The second part of the report shall contain a review table with a list of all planned activities in statistical fields including confirmation of each survey, i.e. a brief explanation in the event that the survey has not been carried out in full or in accordance with the defined deadlines set out in the annual implementation plan. In addition to DZS, the following holders of official statistics, Environmental Protection Agency, Croatian Network Activities Regulatory Agency, CNB, Croatian Institute of Public Health, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Interior and the administrative body of the city of Zagreb are defined under the Law on Official Statistics and the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2013 through 2017. The annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 envisaged the implementation of a total of 300 statistical activities, 194 on the basis of direct data collection, 62 on the basis of administrative sources of data and 44 development activities. Of the 300 planned National Statistics Institute, he planned to carry out a total of 223 statistical activities, 12 more than the previous year, and a total of 221 activities were successfully carried out. The annual implementation plan of the statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 planned the implementation of a total of 283 statistical activities, of which 163 were based on direct data collection, 71 based on administrative data sources and 49 development activities. Of those 283 he planned to implement the DZS, if 227 was planning to implement the DZS, and he spent a total of 225 activities. So due to the lack of DZS resources in 2014 and 2015 did not carry out the following statistical activities, methodology and calculation of the value of long-term assets of Croatia, pilot research to assess quality and update data of the statistical business register and tables of supply and use and input of the table. Other official statistics holders in 2014 failed to carry out a total of 6 statistical activities of which 5 Croatian Institute of Public Health until one was carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. In 2015 other official statistics holders failed to perform a total of 4 statistical activities, of which 3 activities of the CNB, until one activity was carried out by the Croatian Institute of Public Health. For the implementation of statistical activities in 2014 The DZS planned 105 million kuna and spent slightly more than 87 million kuna, which is 82.9% of the planned funds, while in 2015 the DZS planned 101.8 and spent 80.4. Therefore, in accordance with Article 33 of the Law on Official Statistics, the draft draft report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the reports submitted by the holder, together with the opinion of the Statistical Council, produced by the DZS, was also adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and as such was apparent to the Assembly by the Council at the meeting held on 1 June. The second item is the proposal for an annual implementation plan for Croatia for 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on official statistics of the DZS in cooperation with other... official statistics has drawn up a draft annual implementation plan for the Republic of Croatia for 2017. The annual implementation plan shall cover the review of all statistical research or development activities that the official statistics holder intends to carry out in 2017. The annual implementation plan shall be adopted for each year for which the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia is adopted. The programme defines the development objectives of official statistics, the main results to be produced and checked, the most important development activities, responsible holders of official statistics and owners of administrative data sources. The annual implementation plan of the statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 planned to implement a total of 281 statistical activities, of which 167 based on direct data collection, 69 statistical reports based on administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring, and 45 development activities. Of the total of these 281 DZS will carry out 234 activities. A detailed overview of statistical research and projects is set out in Table 1 in addition to the implementation plan itself. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on official statistics of the official statistics shall be provided in the national budget. In accordance with the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and the projections for 2018 and 2019 and the financial plans of other holders of official statistics. The total resources necessary for the implementation of this plan in 2017 shall be €122 million. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Official Statistics, the opinion of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Croatia, which adopted the document in question at its meeting on 31 January 2017, was attached to the draft document. For the purpose of informing and including the general public in the process of drawing up the National Proposal for the Annual Plan for the Implementation of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, the DZS has conducted a consultation with the public interested through the Central National e-consultation Portal. Following the consultation, all comments and proposals were considered and on the basis of the opinions delivered, a draft of the final proposal for an annual implementation plan for 2017 was drawn up. The government of the Republic of Croatia accepted the same as before, and thus was manifested to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40701	I thank you for your explanation to Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Since we do not have anyone registered for the debate, I am concluding the debate under agenda item Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plans of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, 2015 and I am also concluding the debate on the agenda of the proposal for an annual implementation plan for the 2017 statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. We'll vote on the points when the conditions are met. This is what we have exhausted for today all the points of the agenda that are scheduled for work. We will continue on Monday 19.6. at 9.30 p.m. with the addition of the agenda and voting, and then we will move to the agenda point Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 59. Have a nice rest of the day and have a nice weekend, and I'll see you Monday. Cheers! Session adjourned at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40702	Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plans of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, 2015. The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘The report on the implementation of the annual implementation plans of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, 2015’ is hereby adopted. Please vote. I find that with 114 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 vote against the conclusion proposed by the parent council.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40703	I am now moving to the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plans of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2014 and 2015. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 33. The law on official statistics. The debate was conducted by the responsible Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Since we also have a proposal for annual statistical implementation in the Republic of Croatia in 2017, the applicant is also the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was also conducted by the Committee on Finance. I suggest if you don't mind. What? Go ahead. I suggest we unite these two points. You got it. Here I call on the proposing representative to give an additional explanation for both the report and the proposal for an annual production plan of statistical activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40704	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, so first we have a report on the implementation of the annual verified plans of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 and 2015. Therefore, each year, the DZS, in cooperation with other holders of official statistics, draws up a report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to providing information on the activities carried out, the report also contains a review of the most significant development activities, as well as the most interesting results of statistical expressions. In recent years, the reports have been modernised to highlight the importance of statistical research and contribute to visibility and reputation, not only of the DZS as the main holder, diseminator and co-ordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia, but also of the entire Croatian statistical system. The following best European practice related to the annual reporting of national statistical offices for 2014 and 2015 consists of 2 parts. The first part, other than the introduction in which the statistical area is briefly described, contains only those studies where they have been promoted, e.g. improving methodology, revisions, introducing new or modifying existing research to comply with national or European standards, and showing the results of the projects, or the development activities carried out in the year to which the report relates. The second part of the report shall contain a review table with a list of all planned activities in statistical fields including confirmation of each survey, i.e. a brief explanation in the event that the survey has not been carried out in full or in accordance with the defined deadlines set out in the annual implementation plan. In addition to DZS, the following holders of official statistics, Environmental Protection Agency, Croatian Network Activities Regulatory Agency, CNB, Croatian Institute of Public Health, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Interior and the administrative body of the city of Zagreb are defined under the Law on Official Statistics and the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2013 through 2017. The annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 envisaged the implementation of a total of 300 statistical activities, 194 on the basis of direct data collection, 62 on the basis of administrative sources of data and 44 development activities. Of the 300 planned National Statistics Institute, he planned to carry out a total of 223 statistical activities, 12 more than the previous year, and a total of 221 activities were successfully carried out. The annual implementation plan of the statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia for 2015 planned the implementation of a total of 283 statistical activities, of which 163 were based on direct data collection, 71 based on administrative data sources and 49 development activities. Of those 283 he planned to implement the DZS, if 227 was planning to implement the DZS, and he spent a total of 225 activities. So due to the lack of DZS resources in 2014 and 2015 did not carry out the following statistical activities, methodology and calculation of the value of long-term assets of Croatia, pilot research to assess quality and update data of the statistical business register and tables of supply and use and input of the table. Other official statistics holders in 2014 failed to carry out a total of 6 statistical activities of which 5 Croatian Institute of Public Health until one was carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. In 2015 other official statistics holders failed to perform a total of 4 statistical activities, of which 3 activities of the CNB, until one activity was carried out by the Croatian Institute of Public Health. For the implementation of statistical activities in 2014 The DZS planned 105 million kuna and spent slightly more than 87 million kuna, which is 82.9% of the planned funds, while in 2015 the DZS planned 101.8 and spent 80.4. Therefore, in accordance with Article 33 of the Law on Official Statistics, the draft draft report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the reports submitted by the holder, together with the opinion of the Statistical Council, produced by the DZS, was also adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and as such was apparent to the Assembly by the Council at the meeting held on 1 June. The second item is the proposal for an annual implementation plan for Croatia for 2017. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on official statistics of the DZS in cooperation with other... official statistics has drawn up a draft annual implementation plan for the Republic of Croatia for 2017. The annual implementation plan shall cover the review of all statistical research or development activities that the official statistics holder intends to carry out in 2017. The annual implementation plan shall be adopted for each year for which the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia is adopted. The programme defines the development objectives of official statistics, the main results to be produced and checked, the most important development activities, responsible holders of official statistics and owners of administrative data sources. The annual implementation plan of the statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 planned to implement a total of 281 statistical activities, of which 167 based on direct data collection, 69 statistical reports based on administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring, and 45 development activities. Of the total of these 281 DZS will carry out 234 activities. A detailed overview of statistical research and projects is set out in Table 1 in addition to the implementation plan itself. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on official statistics of the official statistics shall be provided in the national budget. In accordance with the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and the projections for 2018 and 2019 and the financial plans of other holders of official statistics. The total resources necessary for the implementation of this plan in 2017 shall be €122 million. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Official Statistics, the opinion of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Croatia, which adopted the document in question at its meeting on 31 January 2017, was attached to the draft document. For the purpose of informing and including the general public in the process of drawing up the National Proposal for the Annual Plan for the Implementation of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, the DZS has conducted a consultation with the public interested through the Central National e-consultation Portal. Following the consultation, all comments and proposals were considered and on the basis of the opinions delivered, a draft of the final proposal for an annual implementation plan for 2017 was drawn up. The government of the Republic of Croatia accepted the same as before, and thus was manifested to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40705	I thank you for your explanation to Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Since we do not have anyone registered for the debate, I am concluding the debate under agenda item Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plans of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, 2015 and I am also concluding the debate on the agenda of the proposal for an annual implementation plan for the 2017 statistical activity of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. We'll vote on the points when the conditions are met. This is what we have exhausted for today all the points of the agenda that are scheduled for work. We will continue on Monday 19.6. at 9.30 p.m. with the addition of the agenda and voting, and then we will move to the agenda point Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 59. Have a nice rest of the day and have a nice weekend, and I'll see you Monday. Cheers! Session adjourned at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-14-0.u40706	Proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2017 The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body, I am giving the adoption of the proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that with 117 votes for and 1 vote against the adoption of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2017. Good morning, honourable MPs. We shall continue with the work and in accordance with Article 226(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the agenda of the 4th session with 18 new points. We already have colleagues who called, I guess for a break. First is colleague Miro Bulj, then colleague Bunjac. Here you go.
