ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47275	Good afternoon, everyone! The first law today, the first proposal is the Proposal for a Decision to set up a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. Let me just read it to the end so we can start formally, and then we can go to breaks. So, the first act - Proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee on Child Rights Promotion Award is proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports on the basis of Article 44. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 6 The law of reward for promoting the rights of a child. Before we move on to the act, I'm sorry someone raised their hand. Mr. Glasnović. Enough. Okay. Are you looking for a break or can we do it now?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47276	I'm looking for a break on the situation in the Croatian media.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47277	Need a break, or can we move on right now? Break. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47278	Well, I'd like to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47279	Okay, ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47280	.../Bukarica raid: Well others are still./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47281	Who else? Please rise.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47282	Dear Vice President, on behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break on the situation in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47283	Okay. Thank you very much. Approved. Next? Here you go, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I, too, am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club regarding the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47285	Thank you. Approved. Here you go, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47286	So on behalf of the GLAS and HSU club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break regarding the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47287	Also approved. Here you go. All right, four breaks. Ten minutes. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:40 AM]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47289	Dear colleagues, I would once again warn the public of a shocking state, a shocking state in the Croatian media that is present today. You're reading today... Media, you need Solomon's wisdom and a lie detector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's written on a warrant again, and who's on target? The target is the Croatian state and individuals. Imagine that in a modern state, someone writes a diary, that this country is for k, I will not speak that word or, for example,. where questions are raised, when do you think the Croatian state will fail? It's our daily newspaper. At the same time, individuals are being attacked and systematically, there's been black propaganda against people on the Internet, false profiles are being created, we have this experience here from our club. At the end of the day, who remembers Mio Black. No one. In 70, in 2 days, 73 attacks were launched on a man who neither guilty nor debtor had now received justice in court, paid him 20,000 kn leftovers, he was crucified, it was neither a violation. Today, a trial against libel is under way, because in Free Dalmatia, the front page said, "You don't want thieves, liars, perverts." Imagine that this happens somewhere in the West, whoever wrote it without checking, would pay millions in damages. We have no protection against libel. 'Cause they're back on the side... And those privileged liars, the clumsy liars, and you have no defense against them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can say whatever they want without any punishment. They're writing a denial later, 3.4 months later, you need a microscope to see that denial and nobody. It's weeks, portals, some owe the state half a million kuna. And today they're disinformation... etc. Censorship exists, which is shockingly shocking that in Croatia, on state television, on HTV, the newsroom for investigative journalism has been abolished, which means no one is interested. In each article you have two newspapers,... At least 2, 3 lies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's who in the former South where every sign in the paper could be censored within 24 hours. And what was strictly regulated is what could be published. You had three categories. The first was, can be published, the second in part, and the third in censorship. And this is happening today, and the idea is that we no longer in Croatia have investigative journalism. It's a dead term, hiding key things, why it's like that. What's hiding? The first thing is that in Croatia there is one gang, and this is a combination of former personnel and mobs one, everyone sits here, they burn... The books, and that's where they're playing us... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] democracy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a construction mob, there's other characters from SDP, HDZ and other characters. Nobody cares, they created a parallel legal system, one for farmers, Croats, and the other for them. They've got money out there, they care, they'll always live like a kidney in the water. That red nobility, they're here today. What else is there to talk about? There's a Privatization gene hiding. It didn't begin Agrekor in the '90s, but before the '90s and other companies, the Fate Company, who's talking about it. These are the roots of privatisation, which are being hidden today, and privatisation is the communist party project, which best knew the market price of these state-owned companies in the former state. Social and social directors, socialists and directors, they translated it after the '90s and today they're big businessmen. The money they stole is coming back... Investment, it hides. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it also defends the largest criminal organisation in Europe's history, outside the Soviet alliance west of Ural, and the communist party of Yugoslavia. These people here today, they built their careers, these journalists, on lies and delusions, they're all former Yugoslavs, and what I said, they're working in weekly portals. Because if this were a normal state, they would go bankrupt because of slander and lies. Unfortunately, I still live in one... and propaganda, the country that propaganda is first. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47290	Mr. Glasnović, time. Good, we didn't kill anyone today, at least. Mr. Grmoya. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47291	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the necessary reference today to the Agrokor case, although according to the ruling party's reactions, from the Government of this statement that we were able to see yesterday, the Prime Minister also acts as if nothing is happening, because they have no responsibility and they do not have to justify nor account for anyone. And it's interesting that they're being ignored. They like to say that the only link between Ivica Todoric and Agrokor and the government, respectively, is the HDZ lex Agrokor. I wonder what happened before all that. Which was before Lex Agrokor, a year, 5, 10 years ago. The diameter doesn't care what happened before, he doesn't care about the cause, it seems. He doesn't care how Agrokor is created as he is and what role his ministers, officials, all finance ministers, so far Tax Administration, HANFA, CNB and HDZ as a party play in all of this, that Most and Bozo Petrov nine months ago did not insist on government talking about Agrokor today would not look at this, they would still ignore the problem, they would still probably be patching holes through HBOR, still throwing money at the well as it seems. Over several times, Bozo Petrov insisted and asked Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric what was going on and when they would discuss the topic of Agrokor because he heard alarming information from suppliers. But they said there was nothing to worry about. Minister Zdravko Maric said in public that nothing was happening around Agrokor, and yesterday we saw that there were 13 billion reasons to worry, 13 billion reasons. And only after we haven't given up, after we've opened the topic and then we've filed a criminal report against Ivica Todorovic and told a lot of that patching of holes in Agrokor and throwing money at the well through HBOR, then it's only then that's when the investigative actions, reconnaissances and everything else. We wanted to determine exactly what Ivica Todorovic was doing and perhaps even more important who was helping him, and someone has obviously been helping him all these years. Following yesterday's results from the company's business and composition of Agrokor, and the expectation of a consolidated report Monday, it is clear that there is a period of reconstruction of Agrokor's companies. It will be a long and difficult period, but what is most important is the fact that the final deconstruction of events such as Agrokor is that it should mark the turning point and destructure of the entire system that has been in force in Croatia for the past 25 years. Ivica Todorovic, who agrees and analysts have handled every political furniture in this country, had his protectors in politics in every ministry in each government, but for the first time someone told him enough. And well last night he noticed a journalist in the Open when he said, it seems to me it was the Bridge. It was the Bridge. We have said a lot, a lot of this kind of system, a lot of this kind of country management, a lot of this kind of ortacical capitalism, and it is time to establish a healthier one based on a single market economy, of course insisting on transparency throughout this process, insisting that healthy foundations be created for the Croatian economy and that the channel in which our farmers and producers will be able to place their products in order to at least try to keep it in Croatian hands. So we wanted transparency, every detail of the government meeting that he was talking about as if he was a secret, Bozo Petrov put it out, we decided to solve the problem when everyone was turning their heads, we started with a criminal application and these reconnaissances within Agrokor, but he wanted to point out, and I think it's time for everyone in this assembly to forget their personal political and other interests and ambitions. That's what I'm telling my colleagues from the SDP who aren't here. If the only reason HDZ is stopping an investigative commission is that one of the former ministers wants to be in the commission, and HDZ disagrees with that, then the SDP counterparts give up on this, it is not important that someone's personal ambition or desire to be in that commission, it is important that the commission is launched as soon as possible. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47292	Thank you. Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to talk a lot now after my colleagues, I will tell my colleague Grumo and my colleagues from the Most if you were guided by your logic, your philosophy, your view of ways of resolving and respecting the Constitution in Croatia, where there is a principle of trodo of power, where there is a clear distinction between executive, legislative and judicial, that you are then asked by your logic who has been in charge since 1 January or 20 January or in early 2015 and was in charge of the Croatian Government for judicial portfolio, for police and home affairs. So when you're trying to impute someone that he didn't perform certain actions, then you wonder who he was during that time before there was a major crisis in Agrokor was in charge of the government if you want the repressive system. But I'm not accusing you of seeing it. I don't think it's the job of your ministers, your ministers, these, or those, it's the work of repressive institutions, it's the job of the police, it's the job of the DORH, and I'll never call your ministers there. And you're able to because you haven't done it, and it's as an argument to you you're also able to call the Prime Minister. So that's one thing. Yesterday's announcement of the results that showed what the situation in Agrokor was at the end of 2016 as well as the situation in Agrokor, which was preceded by the adoption of the Law on Emergency Management in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, confirms to the best extent that the law was necessary to save the Croatian economy, the Croatian financial system, in order for the employees of the concert to continue to function, in order for suppliers to continue to deliver and be suppliers of the concert, etc. And he made it possible that this year, and you heard that, we will see by the end of the year, when looking at the base of the account and getting very likely to be positive, and in this way not only will it help those whose intentions were originally intended, which is for the employees, so that if Agrokor continues through a settlement that is the ultimate objective of the law itself, that what they have invested in a certain percentage can indeed later and evaluate and thus will not be left without its investments which through Agrokor's credit routes or in any other way. As far as the work of the investigation committee is concerned, I want to say it here publicly. The HDZ supports the establishment of an investigative committee, not only to support it, we have proposed to our colleagues in opposition and in the SDP, probably that and you know that today is appointed, established and appointed by the Commission. And we think, but we don't blackmail, unlike others, we don't blackmail, we don't think that the former ministers should be involved in this commission, especially not the ministers from the economic portfolio, from the judicial portfolio, who, in one way or another, can be witnesses in this process. Because the commission works in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, where a person who will be a witness cannot at the same time lead and solve the same subject. Therefore, we think it is not good, but if so much is the individual member and representative of this House who cares about being in that commission and at the same time was a minister in one of the former governments, we will miss it, too, but when the time comes we will certainly know how to respond. So as far as we are concerned in the HDZ Club, we are today ready to bring and vote on the investigative committee, not only to vote on the establishment but also the appointment of members. And I hope that in the opposition, there is a consensus on these members, and as far as the HDZ is concerned, this commission may, in accordance with the decision and the amendment proposed to begin work in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47294	Thank you, too. We've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47295	Dear Vice President, counterpart Bacic violated the article 14, Article 14, means that the Constitution must be held in this House. [[Subject Radin: Article, article, article only.]] He sent us here a message that the minister of police, or the interior minister and the minister of justice, were initiating investigations against someone. That's not true. I did not call any justice minister and HDZ interior minister, but the finance minister, the tax administration, the HANF, the CNB and other institutions. And Minister of the Interior Mr. Bacic, I'm sorry that after so many years in the House, I must teach you not to initiate an investigation, nor does the Minister of Justice have any authority over the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47296	Thank you very much. I have let you speak, Mr Grmoy, but Article 14 states that the representative has other rights and duties laid down by the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and this Rules of Procedure. So it's a little bit, as I say, you interpreted it a little bit in your own way, but I let you speak because it's best to let you speak then, tolerance. Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47297	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So the current political theme that is absolutely at the heart of the events is Agrokor. People like to watch soap operas and then soap opera starts and then you start watching and then the soap goes on and you know about how soap will end but everyone's standing in front of the TV screen and they think there's going to be some new ones, the truth God is introducing some new characters, so we go back to the past and the soap lasts, we watch and sometimes you're surprised, sometimes you know what's going to happen next but you stay. Dear colleagues and colleagues, whether you are ruling or whether you are in opposition, the ruling have responsibility, have the responsibility of the executive authority to lead this country but also have responsibility for this assembly. A soap opera called Agrokor, we must finish it as far as this House is concerned. For the simple reason that we all know that Agrokor is the result of onespring, private capital and state, it's called related capitalism. When in the image of a company and in the image of a family something is created that deals with production, processing and sales, it must no longer happen in this country. The more natural from this soap opera should be that it can't happen anymore. But unlike the soap opera that cheers us up, this one will pay the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, the question is just how much. Agrokor will pull with him into this one abyss that we don't know how deep, terrible a lot of suppliers are, an awful lot of small companies that haven't prepared themselves for this situation. Therefore, the prime minister who said in this assembly that he can do what he wants, so when he can do what he wants, it would be that indeed the DORH does its job and that all the activities it needs are launched in that sense. And we in the House don't need to go through these current watches and cheer up and see who's more funny or not than the investigating committee is something that needs to determine political responsibility, we don't have to postpone it on Friday when the vote is due, so for some Wednesday when there might be a vote or Friday to Friday. It's Friday, there's no reason why we shouldn't declare an investigative commission, there's no reason why it doesn't start working, there's no reason not to establish political responsibility because it can be determined and there's no reason why when, in accordance with all the laws of this country, someone else goes into action and it stops working. So dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that this soap opera that lasts in Parliament, which lasts from Wednesday to Friday and Friday ends with, is the one for next week that we can end today, we can set up an investigative commission, it starts with work, but also make sure that this country and the taxpayers did not participate in the creation of this debt and will pay for the debt that came into existence and that is what is clearly and loudly to say. Therefore, finish the soap opera in the Parliament, as well as finally what we asked the prime minister several times to get an answer from him whether the whole Agrokor story will be paid by taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47298	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47299	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13.05 HOURS]] On 8 October 1991, the Croatian Parliament reached a unanimous decision on the end of the state-level legal alliances with other republics and provinces of the SFRY. The decision was the final act of ending the process of unbundling from other republics and provinces of the former state, which began on 25 June of the same year when the Croatian Parliament adopted the Declaration of Declaration on the Declaration of Independentness in the Sovereign Republic and the Constitutional Decision on the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia. These state-owned political and legal acts were founded on modern Croatia, and the efforts of the Croatian people and the most important political vision of the first Croatian president were achieved. Franjo Tudjman and the then state leadership we should thank them for. And the Croatian Parliament has once again shown its key role in defending national sovereignty and statehood, freedom and democracy. It is well known that the session was held for secrecy in the basement of the INA building in Zagreb because the JNA aircraft bombed the state-run Parliament and the Ban Court building earlier in an attempt to liquidate Croatian leadership. A independent and sovereign Croatia was founded in the Homeland War, which was a liberating war and legitimate in the defence of Croatian peoples and states against large-scale Serbian aggression. Therefore, by marking Croatia's independence, we must give our thanks to all the defenders, civilians and their families who have accepted their country's defences as the most honorable task. Dear MPs and MPs, the Croatian Parliament played a key role in making important decisions to create and defend the modern Croatian state. His role through Croatian history, especially in the recent one, obliges us today to take serious, systematic, courageous and consistent action by listening to the messages of every Croatian citizen, to successfully realise our political visions, to the general good of Croatian societies and to take the responsibility to prove to Croatian citizens the strength of the Croatian Parliament that he has always had. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this year's Independence Day will be marked on Sunday, October 8th by laying the wreaths at Mirogoj's cemetery at the beginning of 10:30 p.m. and then by the last ceremony of this year's big watch shift, in St. Mark's Square at 12 o'clock, and the Croatian Parliament as the representative body of Croatian citizens will open its doors for them from 11 to 17 o'clock. I therefore invite you to celebrate the Day of Independence together, especially here in the Croatian Parliament, in an open conversation and exchange of views with the Croatian citizens we represent. And for the end, honored MPs and MPs, I congratulate you on Independence Day, on the occasion of the Independence Day, on all Croatians and Croats, and on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Now, before the plenary session, a meeting was held between the presidents and representatives of the representatives clubs and from the ruling majority and from the opposition, and we discussed the election of members of the Constitutional Court, three judges of the Constitutional Court and also the establishment of an investigative committee to determine the facts regarding the circumstances of the establishment of the Agrokor business concert, etc. My impression was that we had all agreed, but since I do not see here other than my colleagues, Bauk, the other representatives of the SDP, and to make a decision on the election of the three judges of the Constitutional Court, it takes a two-thirds majority, I would ask my colleague, Bauk, if he can tell us what the current position of the SDP Representatives Club is in order to either continue the vote or postpone that vote for next week. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47301	Thank you, Mr. President. There is no reason not to continue voting since you said that those points that do not require a two-thirds majority would be voted in that sense I am here to explain the amendment of the motion for a decision on Agrokor's investigation committee and then we can vote on constitutional judges afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47302	So I'm going to take a 15-minute break now, we're going to do another round of consultations is this now a little bit too much seems to me by your side, very fair, very correctly we've held talks, responsibility at this time and for selecting constitutional judges, but also for selecting members of the Agrokor committee is on SDP, so I'm giving a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47303	Mr. President and I are looking for a 15-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47304	You got it. Party at 13.25pm. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13,40 HOURS]] We have four requests for a hearing, first it's SDP's Club of Representatives and a respected colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47306	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, from 12.7th to today, we have come very close to the positions, but unfortunately not enough yet for each other's trust to be so much so that we believe that this other side will not fail the agreement. I have heard that you do not believe us, therefore, I urge you, Mr. President, to continue the vote, to discuss the SDP amendment as a proposing, to make a decision on the investigative committee, to discuss the amendment of the Constitutional Committee and to choose the Constitutional Judges. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47307	I will just briefly look back, on the agenda is the point of the Constitutional Judges' Choice before the point of the Agrokor commission, and the agenda is determined by the President of the Croatian Parliament. Certain consultations have been carried out, however, the SDP insists that the Agrokor commission is elected before the Constitutional Judges. There is no agreement on this within the ruling majority so that the option unfortunately cannot pass and receive support. I'm just interpreting here, so, what's happening right now, I think that's correct. Here you go, colleague Maras. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have injured the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the presidency and participation. So here you have expressed the HDZ position that Mr. Branko Bačić has reported neatly to say, but you have placed yourself in the position of the person who interprets the relationship, the arrangements and other things that I don't think are correct. Because you did so, I am obliged here to inform the Croatian public that the SDP's condition of 12.7 this year, when HDZ said it was against the investigation committee, is that the SDP's condition for selecting constitutional judges is to choose and establish an investigative committee. And we have not strayed from this condition to this day. If there is a will for the HDZ to be established, the investigative committee could vote on it today during the vote, because most of them need to do so. of 75 MPs. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Your time is up.]] So we have the same condition of 12.7. As the HDZ changes its position, it would first want a commission, so it would not want a commission. [[Intruder president: colleague Maras!]] We just have to on that side.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47309	First of all, you hurt the Rules of Procedure, you didn't say which article of the Rules of Procedure was injured. Secondly, you used this not to hurt the Rules of Procedure but to use the position of the SDP. As president of the Croatian Parliament, I only explained the current situation without prejudged what the position of the HDZ Representatives Club would be, so I disagree with you and I think you have hurt your Rules of Procedure. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and counterparts of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47310	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Here on behalf of the MOST Club, I would like to invite SDP and HDZ representatives to their responsibility, to their senses. I think that's enough of this circus you're throwing. Clearly, the SDP's condition was what it was all along. I don't see why if the SDP colleagues don't trust HDZ, I don't see why it wouldn't change the voting order and that first we vote on the Committee. After that on constitutional judges, I don't see that much of a problem. You may wonder why the SDP doesn't trust you. They have the right to set themselves up like that. Let's get this story straight. I must also express my dissatisfaction here with the way these negotiations were conducted. Smaller clubs were not involved in any consultations or negotiations at all. We have a situation now that one part of the MPs has proposed Professor Lovrinovic. We also have a situation that the HSS club numbering 5 MPs was not involved in these negotiations at all. And if HSS representatives independent of Croatia and the Living Wall agreed they would also have 10 MPs, so it is questionable, so these agreements are also questionable about the ninth MP. We also had a situation where the Clubs of Representatives were looking for an increase in the number itself. The SDP and HDZ don't want to agree to that. We have nothing against it, of course, but it requires negotiations. We could have done it during all these days when HDZ said he didn't want to, so he wants a commission. We could all sit down, talk, act like adults, responsible people, and not in this way drag the Croatian public and the media and the citizens. I'm begging you, so now you'll sort of agree that we're going to vote the commission. There will probably be a proposal, or there will be an intervention of these smaller clubs. From what I've heard, they don't want SDP or HDZ to agree to an increase in the number itself. But if you're not going in that direction, agree to what the SDP is generally known. Let's vote it out and let's set it up, so this commission, however strange it may be, most of the representatives from smaller clubs may be to the Croatian public. Because it is those who have brought Croatia into this situation that will have a huge majority in this commission. And here's where I suggest we sit on behalf of the Most and Professor. Lovrinovic, meaning on behalf of this group of MPs who supported him. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47311	Thank you. The third club is the club of representatives of the HNS and respected colleague Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47312	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I will only repeat the position of the CNS which is very clear on the election of constitutional judges and is watching the election of members, i.e. the establishment of a commission. As for the election of constitutional judges, I believe that this act should not be the subject of blackmail from anyone, nor should there be valid reasons for that. It is primarily the interest of Croatian citizens, the Croatian public above all, but it is also us who are responsible for it. Why did that happen? I believe the reasons are not since yesterday, but a few twenty years, maybe more. That's one thing. The second thing, what I want to point out to the HNS is there's no problem with establishing the Committee, we've made it very clear since day one when the topic is open, although we believe, and we're witnessing what we saw yesterday, today what we're hearing. It means there's no need for that, but we'll support it. We said very clearly we have no problem with it, we will support it. However, the way it is chosen, whether it needs more, whether it needs less. The commission has the possibility of between 5 and 15 members. It is responsibility in the main actors, on the strongest positioning party and on the strongest minority party in the Assembly of Minority, to agree on a way in which this will be elected and how much membership will be in those committees, in that commission. As for further HNS, we still think that we should move towards that, the vote towards the proposed voting order primarily because I did not notice that when we got the voting plan that any party had objections to it. It remains our view that the choice of constitutional judges cannot and must not be blackmailed by anyone. That's where our colleagues and colleagues will show responsibility. And once again, as far as the Agrokor Committee is concerned, I have no problem with choosing and continuing this commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47313	Thank you. And the last club is the club of HDZ MPs, respected colleague Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47314	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The situation is almost bizarre, that after all the clubs in the Croatian Parliament there is a consensus on the election of constitutional judges, almost all clubs, not over, but among all clubs in the Croatian Parliament, there is a consensus on the selection of the investigative commission. And that's probably a mockery with our fellow citizens that we can't agree here in the Croatian Parliament and spend what we agreed on at a club representatives' meeting. I agree with counterpart Batinić, that it is inappropriate to lead to the same equal choice of judges of the Constitutional Court and to enable the normal work of one of the top institutions of the Republic of Croatia, with the choice of committee that we in HDZ have said we have no problems and that we are for its establishment. What's important is to mention, if it is already, if we want to be stubborn, if we want to humiliate each other in the election of constitutional judges and the investigative committee, because I don't see any other reason why we're even talking here at the Parliament right now, then let's get back to the beginning. At first, there was a decision on the election of the Constitutional Court judges whose proposal was proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, on the one hand, and on the other hand was a proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee from the SDP Club of Representatives. This ended the summer, spring session of the Parliament. We at the HDZ Club agree to make a decision on the establishment of an investigative commission, right after this. So we call on opposition parties to accept our proposal to establish an electoral commission. After that, we will select constitutional judges and after that, because we have not debated members of the investigative committee, we will accept and vote in the ruling committee club. But I'm afraid today is not the time to choose the judges of the Constitutional Court because I don't think we have a sufficient number of hands among our SDP colleagues and that we can choose judges. Therefore, if the clubs of the opposition parties are ready to vote on the members of the Constitutional Court, and we know that we need 2/3 of the majority, you need to make your point, because at this point I don't see, that we, and knowing the views of the clubs, are elected by the Constitutional Judges that we today and that we can stop on your proposal, we can choose the judges of the Constitutional Court. Well, first of all, we should know if we have enough to elect constitutional judges, we agree to set up a commission, we agree to elect a constitutional judge and then choose an investigative committee afterwards. I think it's a fair, correct proposal, on which we at this point can approach the ruling club and choose both the commission and the constitutional judge today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47315	Since we have no agreement on how we're going to vote, I'm going to interrupt the session now, I'm going to interrupt the vote, and we're going to continue these talks in the next few days, and I hope we reach an agreement by Wednesday, and if we don't reach it, I'm going to be very sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47316	President, I suggest you say if we reach it at what time the vote will be, so we can have some... 9.30 or 12. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u47317	Wait a minute, if we agree by Wednesday, the vote will be first thing in the morning at half past ten at the beginning of the session. So here we go, that's all. I continue, we still have one item on the agenda with which we will continue to work, and as far as the vote is concerned, if it is and if we agree, it will be on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52164	Before we proceed with the proposal for a decision to set up a Committee on Child Rights Award, I would just like to say to all MPs that at 12 o'clock there is a vote and tell everyone present now and tell and convey this joyous news. Do the proposing representatives want to further explain the proposal for a decision to set up a Committee on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child? Here with us is Mrs. Maria Puh, vice president of the board. Turina, Turina, yes. Here you go. Mrs. Turina.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52165	Dear Vice President Radin, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports proposes a decision to set up a Committee on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. This Decision establishes a Committee for the Prize for the promotion of the rights of the child to be granted for exceptional achievements in the protection of the welfare, rights and interests of children. The committee proposes to appoint Mrs Ivana Romac, Sonja Borovčak, Natasa Jelenić-Herega, Dijana Topčić-Rosenberg and Sabina Glasovac. A brief explanation. The Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child prescribed that the Republic of Croatia was awarded a prize for promoting the rights of the child for exceptional achievements in the protection and welfare of the rights and interests of children. The prize is awarded as a reward for life's work and as an annual prize. Each year one prize can be awarded for life's work and up to 3 years' reward, and is awarded in the form of special recognition and in money. All awards shall be awarded each year on 20 November as a reminder of the date of adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child at the session of the UN General Assembly. The provision of Article 6 of the Law stipulates that the award is awarded by the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child appointed by the Croatian Parliament at a time of 2 years. The board makes up 5 people known public workers who deal with issues related to the rights of the child and proposes them to the Croatian Assembly, as I said to the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The term of office of the present members of the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child was therefore expired on 25 September 2017, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports decided at the 10th session held on 29 September 2017 to propose a new composition of the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child for the next period, which I have already read in the decision. The committee has adopted the proposal unanimously and I call on parliamentary representatives to support our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52166	Thank you, too. We managed to change your name during your speech on the display at high speed service. We now have Mrs Vesna Bedekovic from the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52167	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since the chairman of the committee explained the whole procedure and since the mandate of the current members of the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child expired on 25 September 2017, so as was heard at the session of the 10th session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, which took place on 29 September 2017, the Committee decided to propose a new composition of the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child for the Next Period, which you have already heard. So, Mrs Ivana Romac, Sonja Borovčak, Natasa Jelenić-Herega, Diana Topčić-Rosenberg and Mrs Sabina Vosovac. So the Committee has carefully studied the résumés of all candidates and, note that the Committee was not accompanied by the CV of fellow Member Sabine Glasovac, however, as its résumé is publicly available on the websites, including the Assembly, knowing a good colleague, we support her candidacy on this committee and following everything I have said so far, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the proposal of these candidates as future members of the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52168	Thank you, too. And now finally, you won't believe it, but still Mrs. Maria Puh. Here you go. But on behalf of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52169	I'd like to thank the Vice President, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here's to the appointment of the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, and I must also say on behalf of the HNS Club that we also support and support the candidates who are proposed. I'd just like to remind this opportunity, perhaps, of the reward for promoting the rights of the child to whom she is assigned, to get to know the public about it. So the annual prizes or prizes for life's work are awarded. The annual prize is a prize given to individuals or groups of individuals if this is the result of their joint work for the most significant achievements achieved in the work on promoting the rights of the child, for the achievements that have been published or presented over the past year and for those who enjoy the reputation of model experts and workers. Annual awards are awarded three and the prize for life's work is awarded to prominent individuals whose work is a permanent contribution to promoting the rights of the child for the purpose of a complete and coherent development of the personality of the child, those who have contributed to the protection of the rights and interests of the child for a long period of time during a professional career or voluntary participation in associations dealing with the rights and interests of children. Those who have marked the time in which they acted and whose actions and achievements remain a lasting good of the Republic of Croatia, those who mark the public recognition and recognition of their successes and achievements of lasting value. Here's with that already I've seen the contest published. Once again, we agree that Mrs Ivana Romac, Mrs Sonja Borovsjak, Mrs Natasa Jelenčić Herega, Ms Diana Topčić Rosenberg and Mrs Sabina Glasovac are the award committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52170	Thank you, Mrs. Puh. There's no one else who's called for a hearing. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote at 1200 hours mostly.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52171	Proposal for a decision to set up a Award Committee, to promote the rights of the child. The draft act is proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to set up a Committee on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 97 votes, a decision on the establishment of a Committee on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child was taken in the text as proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52172	- Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2016 Carrier: The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is the Carrier of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures pursuant to Article 18. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here's Mr. Goran Matesic, president of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. It's 14 in front of you. State Commission report. For so many years, the State Commission has existed as an independent state body to submit this report to the Parliament in accordance with the law. It should be said briefly that the report in the 16th characterises the earlier legal framework, hence the earlier Public Procurement Act, not the one that came into force since the 17th year. And in the last year, there was actually live activity in the adoption of a new law that came into force this year. I'll just point out some characteristics, and one of the first is financial business. So the total plan for the sixteenth year is 8 million 699 thousand, of which 99.47% of the plan was implemented. When it comes to finance, it should be said that with the basis of the state budget's revenue, with the basis of the fee for the initiation of the appeal procedure 21 million were made, which is therefore far greater than the State Commission's budget itself. The human potential should be reflected and clearly underlined because it is one of the conclusions on work, annual work, that employees in the State Commission have an average internship in that institution for 6.8 years and that is the basis for enabling the development of expertise and reduction of deadlines and increasing quality. From the anti-corruption effect, I would be pleased to point out that the entire legal practice of the State Commission is available on the website as well as the register of cases giving it one environment of transparency, legal protection and predictability. Statistical indicators in the paper were 1285 subjects which was almost identical in the previous year and remained the largest number of complaints on public procurement, as the State Commission is also responsible for concessions and public-private partnership. If we analyse the structure of the complaints received is still the largest number of complaints about the choice decision, while there is a little less on the documentation. This is the reason and the change in the law, which happened at the age of 17, which resulted in more quality documentation. As regards resolved cases, the complaint is adopted in almost 40% of cases and is then annulled and corrections to these procurement procedures are being made. There is still a large number of rejections of complaints almost 25%. These are the complaints when the appeal is made, they are probably potentially manipulative complaints because it is not to believe that one quarter of the complaints the complainants do not know how to make the complaint. The length of the appeal procedure has been shortened. Therefore, the average time from the date of completion of the appeal procedure to the decision being 11 days compared to 18 days in last year's report. As far as the deadline from the appeal to the decision-making process is concerned, he is 34 days and that deadline is reduced from 38 days last year. So, the State Commission is more effective in the sixteenth year. If we compare the duration of appeal procedures at the level in the legal protection of other EU Member States, then it should be said that the Republic of Croatia is at the top. I should point out the European Commission's assessment of the European Commission when it evaluated, so the European Commission, which proposed to the European Parliament when it considered the effectiveness of the directive as existing, was then told something that was important to us, because it was said that in the area of public procurement, legal protection in those countries in which it was entrusted to independent state bodies such as Croatia is more effective and faster than in those countries where legal protection is competent courts. This actually confirms the correctness of the concept for which the Republic of Croatia was defined 14 years ago. This report also includes a list of orderers who have 5 and more appeal procedures, which is one list that always draws attention, including your reactions. The most common reasons for the complaint, most often irregularities identified by the commission, are standard and they are almost said to have not changed compared to the previous year. This year, we have provided more information in our report on legal protection that happens after the decisions of the State Commission, before the administrative courts, because it is also legal protection for which the State Commission is not in charge, but you know that an administrative dispute can be conducted against the decision of the State Commission. In '16. 132 lawsuits have been filed a year, which is, in fact, 12% compared to the total number of decisions made by the State Commission. From unfinished items, you can see that there are items from eight unfinished administrative shifts from '8th, '9th, '10th, and '11. and this data suggests that the duration of the administrative proceedings itself, therefore, as the appeal procedure is resolved relatively quickly, this administrative procedure which has a reflection later on takes a little longer. As far as decisions are concerned, the first-degree courts, which evaluate, in '16. The State Commission's decisions were assessed, 69% of the cases almost confirmed by the State Commission's decision, 15% returned to rejuvenation, and only 3% of the court ruled differently. Average duration of administrative disputes, calculated manually from the date on which the action was filed until the date on which the decision was made in cases and public procurement in the Republic of Croatia in '16. She was 568 days old. The report shall contain the structure by vessels. This trend of a relatively small number of administrative lawsuits against decisions of the State Commission has in fact led to the conclusion that almost 98% of disputes in public procurement end in a powerful solution by the State Commission. The component other than this statistics is a qualitative assessment of the situation in legal protection which the Commission gives based on its experience in appeal proceedings. Since it's '16. For years we've been in the environment of working laws, all the recommendations and evaluations we've shown in the previous report could be repeated and we've given some new ones. As is that in the year '16 an increase was observed using the criteria of the most economically favourable offer. You know that the new law has been defined for the sole application of that criterion, so here's an interesting experience. Mark '16. The work of intensive work on the adoption of a new law involving the general public, including the State Commission and this Assembly, which actually adopted the assessment of the situation, gave recommendations, in fact gave its pain. Certain recommendations are included in the law, some are not because this law was not a thorough reform of the public procurement system, and then these recommendations are still repeated, as is the recommendation to work on a better normised Law on the State Commission, which is a law that only has 23 articles. And in conclusion, I would say that the foundation of work is the continuity of human resources and that it has allowed high complexity and deadlines to be done. What is challenging to the State Commission besides doing regular work is the upcoming electronic complaint, as you know, in public procurement, digitisation has far gone, we have a fully digitized advertiser, supplying offers, and the next step is an electronic complaint. That's the '16 report. A year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52174	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. The first line has Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52175	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr Matesic, here is the report on the Commission's work to control the procurement procedures. And there's really nothing to object to this report, you've been controlling procurement procedures, and you've done a good job. I'm going to ask you something at the end of this replica of mine, if you will, you can answer if not again well. You yourself have claimed that as many as a quarter of the applications and rejected them, because, as you know, people know how to make a complaint or not. I also read in the report somewhere that you noticed that orderers often get away from themselves the responsibility of choosing. They don't choose the most invaluable economic offer, but the cheapest one, as it were, so they don't have any problems in the area of corruption. And of course what you specifically stressed that this work of yours has a powerful anti-corruption effect. But what I'm kind of worried about right now is something picturesque. So you know best what successful entrepreneurs are in the Republic of Croatia today, those who do business with the state, with public enterprises, with companies owned by local self-government units, start a company, often with one or without employees, get jobs after a few years, they're millions of profits, and that's how it works. Do you think it was good with your body that controls that there is a body that will be established by the Republic of Croatia that will control just to say to prevent these phenomena that will have their own control plan, which will go in some way not only on the grounds where someone submits a complaint to a plan or any indication that there are certain failures in public procurement? You listed here and what public companies are in which you often miss out on, if such a body existed if it were useful for the Republic of Croatia, to save in spite of the costs that the body would have saved a substantial amount of money, because public procurement according to estimates is going through billions of kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52176	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Mr. Matesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52177	Thanks for asking. Your question in some sense goes beyond the authority of the President of the State Commission, so it enters into something that could be called an initiative to amend or regulate. This is compared to the body you have proposed, if it were not different from the existing situation because the supervision of public procurement is in this situation organised by the envisaged regulations and carried out by the Public Procurement System Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52178	Thank you. The second replica of Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52179	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr Matešić, in your report, says certain recommendations in the 2015 report are not included in the new legal text, but he maintains that they should be insisted on as an important element of further development of legal protection. So we have a new law on public procurement, when the new law was in the debate we on the opposition side had some remarks that were not essential but were more technical because it seemed to us that they might improve... improve the functioning of the State Public Procurement Commission, so I wonder what recommendation to repeat it to us and whether it is possible to amend the law of that recommendation, if you are relevant to the work you are through amending the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52180	Thank you. Mr. Matesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52181	Thanks for asking. So these recommendations are repeated in our report on the page, here is no feature of the site, or at least I didn't get a copy, so they're not of an urgent nature, they're related to further development of legal protection which is in some way we've come to a stage where we should think about developing a legal protection system, not public procurement, but legal protection. One of the proposals defined here is to define the legal protection procedure as sui generis. There are legal dilemmas, that I don't bother you with it now, the Law on Administration of Procedure is a procedural provision used in the appeal procedure. The administrative procedure law is not structured and is not entirely suited to this. So the other part of the suggestion is in this direction, one of the proposals to introduce an objection as a previous remedy that once existed in our legal system and gave relatively good results because the contracting authorities were then able to correct themselves for the purpose of the complaint without having to decide on it by the State Commission. And this is one of the proposals as well as a procedural assumption for the declaration of the appeal file in the light of the previous request for clarification. There is no need to engage a state apparatus if the bidder who has any questions has not previously asked the contracting authorities to explain them to him to correct something etc. And these are some of the questions that we have referred them to again as questions for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52182	Thank you, too. Mr. Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Matešić, you spoke about the structure of the received and resolved complaints in 2016, and the report says this, the appeal is adopted 39%, the appeal is rejected 25% and the appeal is rejected 24.98%. And my question would be, there's a percentage of those rejected complaints 37% higher, and then you said there were manipulative procedures. I am interested in concretely, and we know that such manipulative procedures actually make it very difficult to process and block the funds needed to perform certain actions, whether against such manipulative companies, and here in the list we see here in the first two places are some companies that I am completely unknown, some Shimac and... is any procedure being initiated against them and does the law provide that against such individuals who do so from manipulative initiatives have the possibility of punishing? So do we have the possibility of punishment and do we punish them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52184	Thank you. Mr. Matesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52185	Thank you for asking. First of all, it is difficult to explicitly determine that it is always manipulative complaints. It can be assumed that someone is making a complaint, so the complaint is messy in the sense that no compensation has been paid, that he is doing so to create an opportunity for another conversation because the statement of appeal actually results in a suspension of the follow-up procedure. So this complaint can be manipulative, the commission of course has no record of whether it is manipulation, but from the field and from the general public it is often suggested that in some cases it is manipulative complaints. So I'm not saying first, but that it is possible, the second law did not provide for any possibility because the right to make a constitutional right appeal, so there are no sanctions. However, what this Parliament has done by adopting a new Public Procurement Act and precisely at the recommendation of the Commission is that this assumption of making a complaint concerning payment of compensation has been served in such a way that it must be, the fee must be paid immediately with the appeal made and that there is no repair, that there is no longer a deadline for the commission to call and when the party can subsequently pay. So the new legal solution has also speeded up and such complaints before they end, I think they're being rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52186	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a debate. First, would the committee reporter like to take the floor, Mr Darinko Kosor? No, I don't. Okay. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr Tomislav Panenic, in front of the club MOST Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52187	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Matesic, with his associates. Here I think that the darkness which was also part of the mandate while I was minister certainly marked a good part because the new Public Procurement Act that you adopted was completed in June 2016, adopted by the Government, but then here was the Parliament's disbandment. Of course, this is probably the last report that will have this kind of shape that we'll also see the effectiveness of the new law. I'm sorry in the new law here is why we failed to remain consistent, so with some changes, exceptions were made. What gives me a reason to say good is that you exist is exactly one statement I recently heard when one regional self-government leader said everything would be good if there was no DCOM. Says they're the ones who keep breaking something. And then I wonder, OK, I don't know if you have anything against such people or what they want to happen isn't in line or maybe the client didn't, your documentation, which you listed correctly. And what's even more common to come to the situation is trying to please itself, and then in this whole set of people who are tied around it, so everyone wants to push something, and then that bidder who might have been targeted by one supplement of another person can't please, and then we get to a whole series of illogicalities, so it happens to you that I don't know the fall the first one that was chosen, and then the other one goes on forever. Well, the man's actually wondering, probably you, too, if that makes sense, if they actually see that it doesn't work that way. It's good information that yet these tendencies are shrinking and the decrease in these few years from 2 and some thousand to 1100, it must be commendable, I think we already have and in the previous report there were here and, on my part, clearly indicated that support for your work is uniform. What is before the laws, especially now made possible in fact that all those who consider it if the documentation is prepared to say there are shortcomings that can be complained about in this process, is now strengthened. I think there's a key. It needs to be made public. When I say the key to public publication is something that would make it easier for all of us and for us who have to look at reports like this, which are technically correct but we also see system problems, to have electronic publishing models solve a number of problems. As long as the envelopes come big, small, come to the hands of people, as long as the bidders at the door of certain customers agree the last 5 minutes on whether they will be bigger or smaller we will have these situations. The time has matured, we have the service of the People's Newspaper in which we can safely, simplifiedly publish everything and also that choice is performed exclusively electronically. Here I am, here you mentioned in your mind that there are also complaints about the concession, so I made an observation to the concession law why there were changes that didn't go the same way in the direction of electronic publication. Because as soon as it's going in that direction, then the space for manipulation is smaller, the neater the documentation is, and then we don't actually have to look at this, actually this is like a list of shames, the lists of orderly who have 5 or more appeal procedures there were actually you very much I would have said meetingly so you said 5 or more. But when we look at that in one HEP it's 96 complaints, the city of Zagreb 81, the good city of Zagreb really has the largest volume, so maybe we could do a little alimony there. But these are all our key institutions that need to speed up procedures to use the funds as soon as possible. But here's what I've recorded. There's only one example. The home of health Zagreb, as many as 80% of all complaints were adopted. You know what 80% is? That means someone out there isn't doing their job. And after that we come, OK, you've found it, you've come into the business that you're doing, you've stayed in that frame, you've given a hint that the problem or I don't know the General Hospital of Karlovac with 86% of the complaints received. And what they need to do now, these institutions, something has to change. So this way it can't work because as you're going to explain, I don't know a patient in Karlovac who needs to come to the hospital to say modernization or the execution of certain works couldn't possibly be done because of the fact that the contest didn't go through. And everyone says he didn't pass the contest he fell there on DCOM and he's back on DCOM and eventually you turn out to be guilty because everyone else wants to find the easiest alimony for themselves. What is the most common reason and stated and first, the tender documentation is not in line with the positive legal solutions. We have nothing more to say about it, and we have actually witnessed such allegations all the time. However, we are now coming, we could perhaps use national funds, state budget funds, regional, local few to play like that, to set up but come terms that are related to the use of European funds. You yourself say in the report that this has started since 2014. And then when asked why our projects aren't being realised, why we're not withdrawing funds, the vast majority of it is precisely because of the attempt to re-influence the public procurement procedure that was prescribed in such cases and we see that the percentage is growing, so it's already here, that it's been cancelled, it's at 43%. ... that this is something that the European Commission will warn us about and say or team up with the right people or simply will not withdraw funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if 40 percent of the complaint, we have in 2014 almost 43, then 35 in 2015, then in 2016. 43 again, so we don't change, we don't learn anything, we just accept that. What I would point out, here and before me are already in these replicas, the criteria of economic, most favourable offers, are binding under the new law. You need to have knowledge, you need to make quality criteria and no more alimony that we had to choose the lowest offer that might ultimately be the worst in realisation, so it's hard to accept that somewhere the asphalt may fail, the concrete peel during the first winter, some equipment may be insufficiently quality because with this law it's actually the responsibility and obligation of the bidder to get the best within the means it has. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most you have full support in your work and we will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52188	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. First Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52189	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Panenic, here's a few things I'm about to discuss with you. When Minister Dalic represented the new Public Procurement Act here, I then warned her that there were a number of municipalities, smaller municipalities, a problem in fact and expertise, a commission that needs to implement the procurement. It is not often intended to be wrong but there are such cases where actually public procurement requires a slightly higher level of expertise, but of course it does not remove the ability of those leaders who order, who are actually up to something and say only you do it somehow, you do it in papers covered. Another problem that arises is the centralisation of public procurement. On the one hand, you have through centralization the suppression of corruption, meaning that better prices are achieved, but through centralization you reduce the incomes again often times of municipalities and cities because then entrepreneurs are not usually local performers or from which individual services are supplied. But the most important thing I've replicated, so the Ministry of Economy, their public procurement policy administration, has data. According to these data, they state that in the Republic of Croatia 4 and a half billion are going through public procurement, public procurement or sectoral contracting authorities. When we see it through the county, of course it goes to the city of Zagreb 24, almost 25 billion. Or 72% of the full contract on public procurement. Slavonski County, Virovitičko-podravska and Požeko-slavonska are not on this list, there is Brodo-Posaviska in the last place with 227 million kuna. We see that the Ministry of Economy has through its administration, do you think it would be a good idea for the public procurement policy administration to form a body that will monitor public procurement procedures because 35 billion kunas are not small money?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52190	Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52191	Dear colleague Zhagar, it was also an initiative launched by us to be a prevention. That in the preparations in the procedures that take place we can intervene before they come to the DCOM when it is too late, when time is spent that we can actually do what we do and in some other forms of surveillance determine irregularities and procedures if we need to stop, correct, then continue properly, so that there is no such treatment that eventually someone calls DCOM to blame. You only read the amounts of public procurement, but I would also warn of the amount that is not under public procurement. Now in the county assembly I am a councilman of my county, a fundamental objection which I have on the reports of all the users of the county budget, in fact the public bodies that are operating there are shared acquisitions. And it is evident that artificially shared procurement and precisely the initiative that we had at the time, which failed to realize was the ode for such small values of procurement we are not looking for a procedure but we are asking for public disclosure, not only on certain sites where it is very difficult to sum it up, but on the electronic system of the national newspapers where it would be clear who is the most involved in such procurements, which are actually entities that may, on the other hand, initiate that such contracts are awarded to them in the context of the possibility of direct award. And I'd say we have a public procurement attempt at malfeasance here, so good to have a DCOM. In the process of small procurement, we also have an attempt and realization because there is no DCOM or there is a system in which it can be found unequivocally that someone often appears in forms that actually threaten the procurement process and then we should say let's go to the local level. And I want it to be at local level, that that local merchant or some supplier has a certain profit but how if we fail to solve such a form of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52192	Thank you. Mr. Lackovic, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52193	Thank you, Vice President. So, fellow Panenic, you said in your statement that the tendency to influence the procurement process is noticeable. Clearly, it is also the responsibility and duty of each contracting authority, whether it is a local self-government unit or a third party to seek to influence this process but in a positive way, so that quality is prepared and processed, in order to clearly write down all the criteria that are relevant, that these criteria are not contrary and that as many as possible are combined with public procurement procedures. Therefore, there are positive side effects of the contracting authority on the public procurement process itself. In that second case, when it is implicated and it wants to be read out from a large number of State Commission procedures that they have a large percentage of complaints among certain contracting entities, so in my opinion there is some kind of non-experience, not resourcefulness. Because the Public Procurement Act is a very complex mechanism that needs to be helped precisely by the contracting authorities, because they are the ones who pay, they know best what they want, but they need to do it through a complex procedure like this. What was noticeable in the proceedings of the State Commission, which was clearly illegal and legal, was the fact that due to the technical documentation that was not well drawn up by the contracting authorities had made strong complaints that legal costs would be charged and that it took a long period of time for all the contracting authorities to actually lynch until the law had been amended and until the practice had ceased. And clearly those potential interested applicants who had absolutely no interest other than to find one mistake in the technical documentation and charge 20, 30, 50 or how many thousands of kuna. So, I think it's positive that each client has a maximum impact on the procedure itself, and I think it's in your best interests and for every client to cancel and reject that offer that doesn't comply with the law. Thank you. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52194	Mr. Panenic, I'm asking if you'll answer, but you didn't answer. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52195	I'm sorry. I'll check in with the bat in the future. In fact, this new model that allows interested parties to actually read the draft procurement documents has opened up a new perspective, that someone can't say was cut off in some future time. He can react, complain, and then get the paperwork right. However, it will never correct the information, for example, when getting a car if someone wants a car that has 1986 cubic centimeters. I ask you why it doesn't cause up to 2,000 cc's or from 1900 to 2000 cc's. So at the end of the look, there's always a complaint, those who appear to actually technical characteristics of that someone supplier are actually just copied and glued. So it's not just a matter of quality he wants to get. But if you were looking at quality, then someone here would probably buy KIA that showed up in all the research. But everyone wants it to turn out in the end I don't know one Audi or Mercedes. And with this problem we have to deal with, in fact, how do these particulars that are in the domain of the client where he can determine by his will be an unlimited factor. And when we get past that, then I'm sure these procedures will be much better, because you, too, with me, want to get as much locally published as possible, that as many companies as possible that may not be the most favourable at the price but will be able to provide sufficient quality, I don't know the short supply chains, that they will be the ones to answer. And that in the end not only did they have the lowest price so they're 300 km away or they can't provide service or any other characteristics these are more suitable And that's the intensity of the new law, and as such I hope it will change a lot in our actions. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr Panenic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52196	Thank you. Third replica, Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52197	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Panenic, I fully agree with you and your findings. But what's going on here? In our public procurement, it's going a little slow, and we know through this period that's been going on for the past 25 years that there's been a set-up of some kind of public procurement. That's why our so-called ministries, including hospitals, have come to great losses. We have today, today we're cross-referencing with information. I fully agree and should all public procurement go through the information competition, computerly. So this would be very quickly resolved and the best bidder would be known and then there would be no complaints that stretch and slow down all of the part of the system that should work faster. And in the end, the state would save probably big money, big money in purchases. We'd have a little bit of trouble. There wouldn't be any public procurement or arrangement. And I think we've matured as a society to move on to information, enough of those envelopes and everything. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52198	Thank you very much. Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52199	The area of public procurement is not only with us, but also I say throughout the EU is the subject of a number of analyses. And that's exactly the area that's most alerted. And unfortunately, we're standing there statistically badly. And just the amendments to the law, one part that has been in line with the European regulations that are positive in that part. And the second is that we have some of our own specialities. And the desire of passing such a law was that these specialities were not to leave room for further manipulation, but to open space for what we can positively and primarily wish for those who can participate to have as much opportunity as possible. And just opening our public procurement through the criteria that are being published will certainly facilitate this process. And if we give this report the support of the State Commission, then we'll step up surveillance. If we are consistent in improving the Public Procurement Act, then we will certainly have better discussions and perhaps this point will be formal, and we will end up in a short time and say only. There was no need to act, and we're glad we don't have to argue too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52200	Thank you, too. Now in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52201	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleague Matesic with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the Commission's work on control and public procurement for 2016. Somewhere about 10 or 15 years ago, I was in the Netherlands when there was a terrible debate in the Netherlands about public procurement and public procurement. In fact, there was a situation in the Netherlands that was in public procurement, flowers were ordered for parks in Amsterdam, and a business was given to a Belgian company that was absolutely a failure of the whole system. And that's when I actually, the public procurement at our place was in the turns. And then when you see a little bit of what it's like to have long-experienced countries you can compare and see what it's about. This report shows that the entire public procurement and public procurement control system is indeed better and better every day, that is, in time. From the very beginning when it started, when it was all wrapped up in a veil of secrets until today it turns out to be better. It is equally a pleasure to see you get one report and that it is a commission that spends, or budget is spending around... 8 million and 700,000 kuna and income is 21 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what 24 employees do, even though they could be 48 by structure. The fact is that not all the bodies of the state administration and all the commissions and all the agencies can have the case, but I am sure there can be more of them than there are today who can have such a situation and it is evident that there may be room and employment here and something more of the employees to make the procedure more rapid and efficient. Although this report also shows and points to the fact that there is an increase, it is therefore faster to solve things than it was before. The way we handle it, the complaints we come up with, we have quite a comprehensive report, and we can see quite extensively. When I was taught at all about administrative procedure and when I was taught what and how, among other things, it was said that if you do what you do and if you have administrative procedures, if you have about, you fall on a second-degree body about 10% of the solution that you are doing your job well. So I went with special attention to read the part that was well processed and I can praise the report is well processed, very transparent with all the tables, very easy to get all the indicators. And then these indicators show that when administrative disputes are launched, around 12% of the solutions made by the Commission for the procurement process are disputed. Which means he's doing his job well and he should be commended. When we get one report, then on the one hand you commend the report on correctness and content for content but also what you need to see should be seen because from this content you can see what and how you continue to do and compare always with the year after year and if you see progress then you can also say that the body whose report you evaluate worked well with your job. I'm saying this all for the simple reason why I want to say that we at GLAS and HSU will accept this report but this report has an equally interesting part that has been well analysed and well that this is well-analyzed and well located on Parliament's website and these are the contracting authorities or a list of contracting entities that have 5 or more appeal procedures. Now I have a little dilemma here, of course it's in the first place HEP which is not even weird because he has a terrible lot of procedures, so it's no wonder that it's so much to look at a little bit of a percentage. But much more interesting, I must admit, is a list of those complainants who have six or more complaints. And that's what Matesic said very gently, but what we all did with public procurement, too, is that we have professional mourners. And they're good to see each other here, and it's good that when they want to work professionally with it, they pay for it. And then it's very interesting that list because you really have some very high companies that, when you Google, you have some doubts about jobs, but you should definitely know why he's doing some kind of work and why he does it that way. What I really want to say is that what I really want to say is very important to the public of the work particularly of this Commission, that what the new Law on Public Device predicted, and that is at all the possibility of presenting the whole work so that it can be seen, this transparency in the work is extremely important because when you have transparency in the work, then you really have the possibility of corruption that is significantly reduced and you also have the opportunity for everyone to see what is done. And what is extremely important and what is in my question when I gave the replica I answered, and that's an improvement in work. I agree with you when you said it would be good to introduce the possibility of an objection, the possibility before the procedures of certain situations themselves, because that would reduce this administrative part, the administrative part of the appeal. In other words, it means from this report, of course the resolution ministry and Minister Dalic may improve legislation and thus facilitate the process. I'd like to see that the report we get for 2017 really shows progress so that the number of days from 34 decreases to 33 or 32. We all tend to have that magic wand so that all of a sudden everything will be different. However, if you see progress, if you see that from year to year the work of one service is better, but you see that you have a service that has three times as much money as it is for its work, then it means that the service is doing well to have reservations, maybe hire some others, because you can only speed up this process and reduce the number of days, but at one point you no longer have the capacity you have- but it is equally important education and therefore all of these e-processes are served and the web pages are therefore serving reports that are on the Assembly's website to educate and that the customers are even better and that it is even better because everything depends on what documentation you prepare. The better you get your order documentation prepared, of course, the simpler you'll be and conduct the public procurement process, and you'll be easier to refuse the appeal. It is therefore extremely important that these documents are well prepared, and they will be well prepared and have experience from your work why certain complaints are being raised and what are the reasons and therefore these legal practices are extremely important. It's important all these experiences are publicly published, and they're equally interesting these complainants, this first company is certainly tied up, and I'm afraid the third, for the second I'm not sure, about medical equipment where there's a lot of orders and a lot of complaints. To conclude, our club will support this report. This report shows progress related to the entire public procurement system, but we should never be satisfied we should strive to be even better than just now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52202	Thank you, too. We have three replicas, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52203	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. In your good debate, you pointed out a few important things. You mentioned that the commission that needs eight million for its work, income is 21 million and these are direct revenues. But who are still indirect then, because the control of the procurement process saves a lot of resources that would otherwise fail. You mentioned the speed of resolution of complaints and I felt it myself on my skin as then the head of the municipality, 250 thousand kuna I think the Ministry of Regional Development for the end of some home, it was an unfounded complaint we've been waiting for months, we've been sending in rushes but the money's gone simply, we haven't got it. And you know what $250,000 means for a small municipality, that's a huge amount of money. And as far as I can remember, there was an attempt to legally resolve these professional complainants, I don't know how much they did, but according to what you said, it seems like we didn't make it. However, I would like to point out, public procurement in the Republic of Croatia has an impact on everything, public procurement has an impact on local elections, public procurement has an impact on the mayoral elections of Zagreb. If 25 billion people only go through public procurement in the city of Zagreb, of course not to decide on everything the mayor... but the mayor because they are state-owned... but he knows entrepreneurs, he moves in those circles. But what about the bazaar? I don't know what's the opposite word. I don't know what's going on. I don't know what's going on here. I don't know what's going on. But what I find safe, good public procurement control not only through the control of procedures that these people do very well, the whole commission, good control would save a considerable amount of funds and despite the fact that the agency should not be established I think that should be established... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52204	Thank you. Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52205	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, you've set a few topics here, so I'll go from beginning to end. First, the reference to the amounts at which I also referred in my presentation is therefore incomparably greater than the amount of public money that the State Commission takes with its quality work to ensure that they are spent transparently and properly. It's equally important to increase efficiency for the reasons you said. There are no large and small amounts, for your municipality the amount of 250,000 kuna is about as large as for the city of Zagreb is 25 billion because if you fail to arrange it in a certain time these money is failing and the rest. So, on the one hand, extremely important quality work because it affects non-transparent spending of public money, but the speed is also important because of the possibility of making a deal. And, of course, the election is being won on whether or not the commissioner has run something. However, you said when it comes to the city of Zagreb and you mentioned that number and you said that the mayor probably did not decide, but in the city of Zagreb he decided. Believe me, there is no public procurement that the mayor of Zagreb is not familiar with and in a certain way decides from toilet paper, so I don't know, let's just say, it's hard for me to tell the bus. Indeed it is, but the city of Zagreb is another story. What is mentioned is mentioned in this baffled public procurement, it is also important because of some pro-pulsivity and I believe that in the future it will also be taken care of. Professional complainers that I do not forget them, it is constitutionally right that you complain and no one can prevent anyone from complaining, but you can put it in the frame by introducing an amount they must pay to even discuss his appeal and to have them and to know who it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52206	Thank you. Mr. Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52207	Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. Well, here you are, in your discussion, saying the report was well done and I agree with you. Somehow over time it is seen that the process of public procurement is increasingly functioning in our country and the commission is increasingly doing its job better and better over time. If a little comparison is made between 2015 and 2016, we see that somehow the same number of items received and the same percentage of complaints that are justified and those rejected and equally, that is a 40:60% ratio somewhere. You mentioned these professional mourners. I think they're actually a huge problem with systems, especially to HEP, because often because of such complainants in some way many processes suffer and all the times stop, it happens that you run out of equipment completely and then the economy simply can't figure out why our companies can't do their job on time. Through this entire report and everything when it looks at itself, it seems to me that this particular fight against these professional complainants is somehow still a bit of a helmet. The fact is, OK, they need to pay a lot of money, but they still find their own interest, and you're kind of through your debate, so I'm wondering how you're thinking about just the teams that you haven't debated too much about all the time and I think they're still the least advanced area because they're kind of equal from year to year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52208	Thank you, too, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52209	Thank you very much. My colleague Tortgergeli, so the commission will do its job well and it will be better when it's a real number of days, I think it's about 30 to solve complaints and it'll probably have to do even more, it'll be hard to do it with this number of people, but I'll leave it to them. When you've been handling a complaint for about 30 days, then you don't have cases like your colleague Sagar told anyone to call anyone. By the time he remembers calling the appeal, it's already been resolved. I can also say that from the personal experience I had at the Department of Construction, when I became a minister then in the second degree there was a resolution of, say, 6.7 months. We've cut it down to 30 days and no one needs to call anyone else, hurry this or that, everything gets sorted out. So that's one topic. But these professional mourners are really a problem. You can't stop anyone from complaining. What you can do is what was done to increase taxes, or what he must pay to complain. So it's an instrument that needs to be used and maybe at some point increase even more so that we have a better income in the state budget. Because there really were cases where even some law offices for their clients filed a complaint knowing that they couldn't get it but it was important to handle it from some other stuff. That's what we need to know, that's how we come up with it, and as I said in the presentation, we'd all like something faster to be done. I'm just as impatient, so I'd like everything to be great right now, that it works great. It can't all work out, but by reducing the number of days, by increasing the amount, we'll certainly do something better to regulate that part than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52210	Thank you, too. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52211	Your Honor, Vice President. Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, I also join the congratulations that this deadline for resolving the case has been reduced from 38 days to 34 days but what may not be mentioned is that in that period you have shortened and actually the period of completion of the appeal case means from 18 days to 7 which is very important to achieve then this deadline which is, normally, to weigh 30 days as much as the law provides. What I would like to say is that it is interesting that out of the EU funds and investments that occur from these funds are actually the value of all these items is more than 14 billion kuna and then it is clear why these complainants are, in fact, professionally, it's from a system of disposal, I don't know, reconstruction of various, and project documentation why then and the amounts that are coming into the state budget are actually great, because there are great values. But here were 142 complaints, which is very interesting, so it's very attractive and will be interesting in the following year, in fact, to see how this new Public Procurement Act is actually going to reflect on these and such procedures, given that the most favourable, economically advantageous offer is being applied, so it's actually going to be very interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52212	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52213	Thank you very much. My colleague Perić, I agree with you that the report we will have for 2017 will be interesting because we will be able to see the application of the new Public Procurement Act and therefore this report is important or see where the improvements are, where there are possibly more elements for improvements. It's the worst thing anyone ever gets at any law like we've carved it into stone and it can't change. Every law should be seen as well as life to change in relation to circumstances. This Public Procurement Act does have certain improvements related to the former law, but through the reports of the State Commission, we will see what improvements are really made and what is really the case. I, too, had a need to mention in my presentation, as the Commission's work shows, what is the structure of the complaint, who complains, how complete it is. Control of the Commission's work in a certain way is done by the Administrative Court because all those who decide against the state commission's solution are coming to the Administrative Court and the Administrative Court is one body that shows in a certain way and how the Commission works. And that's why I deliberately mentioned that one percent of the solution that is going back to a re-proceeding process that was not considered to be well done and that is absolutely equally respectable. I think it's one 68% if I'm not mistaken that I'm not taking... And I'm not reading, your solutions are confirmed by the Administrative Court and it says that there is no basis, or it rejects the request for it, part of it returns to the retrial, and part of it is as unsuitable or not on time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But somewhere around 12% if I'm not mistaken is something the Court of Justice says here's back to retrial which is actually extremely good and would be convenient to see. And it would be convenient to see some other bodies that have as much as that percentage there, the percentage is something different than you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52214	Thank you. We are now continuing the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mrs Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52215	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, the Honorable President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Mr Matesic, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support this year's report. We know that according to Article 18. The Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, the Commission is obliged to submit a report on its work once a year to this Croatian Parliament. I would point out once again that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure is an independent and independent body responsible for resolving complaints concerning public procurement procedures, concession procedures and procedures for selecting a private partner in public-private partnership projects. The State Commission is based on the European concept as a quasi state body. Why did I want to underline this? To understand even more the meaning of this report in the Croatian Parliament. As my colleagues and colleagues have pointed out before me, this statistics and all of this presented in the report are extremely high quality and well done, however, the statistics themselves show also the phenomena from which conclusions should be drawn and on the functioning and difficulties of the procurement process or legal protection. The work of this committee is based on a broad experience of process analysis and most importantly, this analysis also ends with an assessment of the situation in legal protection and public procurement. It is particularly good that these decisions taken in the appeal proceedings before the State Commission are made public on the website, which helps in transparency and also contributes to anti-corruption. Namely, any complainant and all those involved in the procurement process can see all the cases, their decisions, the decisions of this commission and learn a lot and see that they too have been selected, tendering, etc., not the same mistake. The delivery of decisions by public publication on the website also makes significant financial savings. Since Croatia's entry into the EU, more intensive use of European structural investment funds has been taking place. Thus, public procurement cases financed by eu funds, the Schengen Instrument and strategic investments are first reported in the legal protection proceedings in 2014. In 2015, their numbers increased significantly in order to have as many as 137 items worth more than 14 billion kuna in 2016. We know that the use of these funds is related to time limits, there is a high assessment of the value of procurement, extremely complex procedures, extensive, complex documentation, usually involving consortiums with economic operators from EU Member States and public procurement procedures are under the supervision of the EU and after their completion by criteria different from those in domestic legislation and with the possibility of revoking the funds most dangerously. Here, as colleagues and colleagues have already said, we have increased involvement of professional advisors including lawyers and there is evidence of increasing professionalisation and high professional level so that in 2016 we had only one complainant, as many as 29 registered complaints of which more than 55% were adopted, so 16 complaints were adopted. When we talk about personnel, the State Commission consists of nine members and is employed by 29. Although 31 had been employed earlier a year, the regulation envisioned 48 jobs. Then once again to point out that we need to, that it is extremely complex jobs and that their knowledge and ability every day is increasingly demanding, more demanding, then we really need to be a little concerned and see how to strengthen this commission as much as possible, or how to increase the number of employees. One piece of information is not very clear to me, so I'm going to ask you to read it to me, to say the employee's salaries were planned to be spent in 2016, 6 and a half million kuna, a year earlier 31 employees were employed and a million kuna was spent from the budget. As far as material costs are concerned, a million and 800 thousand kuna were spent and 40% of them for rent. I think now the new ministry could help you, so I'd rather spend that money to arrange some new rooms than spend this much money on renting space. All of this is, of course, isolated from the state budget. However, far more resources have been pooled in the state budget with the basis of compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure and administrative fees. There were 21% of the million kunas, which is over 12 million kunas more than planned. And this was a little bit illogical for me, too. The 2015 budget also planned 13 million defects than was realized then we could expect that in 2016 we would have more income and we could have planned more. When we talk about numbers, the number of complaints received in 2016 is 1135 items, of which 870 on the choice decision which is significantly more than the previous years while we have a reduction, and significantly when it comes to publication and documentation for competition, this year 166, unlike the previous 223, which means that we have all learned a lot together and that there have been fewer complaints on this subject. It is also commendable that in 31.12.2016 98 cases remained unsettled, cornered. those received in December, while a year earlier, that figure was 150 items. The procedure for adoption of an appeal of about 40% has been slightly increased. The largest number of cancellations of as many as 304 have selection decisions, meaning that the number has been increased, and the number of decision-making cancellations has increased, until no decision has been taken to cancel the public procurement contract. It is an interesting topic and duration of the appeal procedure, the average time from the date of receipt of the complaint to the publication of the decision is 34 days, which is 4 days less than 2015 and by as much as 38% less, respectively, the average time from the date of completion of the appeal case until decision-making is reduced by 7 days and now it is only 11 days. The improvement means we see from year to year, but we have to admit that there are still criticisms, there are still problems and some indetermination, which leads to administrative procedures and delaying the whole procurement process. I would also refer to this figure, which says that according to the number of complaints received, hep fronts with as many as 29 such cases, however, if we compare, that they had as many as 477 cases of public procurement in 2016, then that ratio is not as big and very worrying as some others, e.g. The State Office for Central Public Procurement in 2016 because it called all six procedures, and we have five complaints. I suppose it's some of the cases from earlier years or maybe a mistake, but it would be really worrying that out of the six competitions that have been called, there are five complaints and complaints. In cases processed during the appeal procedure, there is also a source of information on deficiencies, difficulties, obstacles, interferences, as well as the phenomena which are exposed to both the legal framework governing the material legal part of public procurement, concessions, public private partnership, legal protection and practice as well as the rules governing the status of the State Commission. In 2016, the legal framework has not changed significantly, but strong activity has been marked in the field of the adoption of a new law which entered into force on 1.1.2017 and is largely based on the analysis of the shortcomings and recommendations contained in previous reports of the State Commission. The State Commission and an active participant have been developing a strategy to combat corruption, as well as the operator of activities in the 2017 and 2018 action plan with a corruption control strategy for the period from 2015-2018, which includes the detection of corruption risks. The decision of the State Commission may also be triggered by an administrative dispute. So the Public Procurement Act allows for administrative dispute to be launched against decisions by the State Commission and it is of a hasty nature. And here we can also read a lot from this data, so in 2016. 132 lawsuits have been filed which is 12% of the total decisions. However, it is a sad fact that we have unfinished administrative disputes from 2008. When we can see the average duration of administrative disputes, it's 568 days. But you know what it's like on a Tuesday, for example. The administrative court in Split has an average of 722 days. I wonder what if the verdict passes the suit and the case goes back to a decision, as it was in 15% of the cases of first-degree courts. What a shame it would be and who would bear that expense. As regards the above-mentioned assessment of the situation, it is important to point out once again that a new law was adopted in December 2016 which entered into force on 1.1.2017, the new Public Procurement Act and these results will only be visible in the 2017 report. And once again, I point out that the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52216	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, the first replica is Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52217	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the commission, colleagues and colleagues. Mrs Juričev-Martinchev pointed out on several occasions the importance of this commission and their reports in the fight against corruption. It is also true that they are an important element in the anti-corruption strategy, so here I am also having to express my satisfaction, which our national council has not been working for months, so it has not had a chance to consider this report and present its observations and suggestions on how to be better. And if we had to be better, this report also shows, of course, that the anti-corruption element of this commission's work is very strong, but still, back 2 years, the corruption risks in Croatia are growing. Croatia is getting worse on the scale of the perception and corruption index, and the most devastating data we received from research by the European Parliament and the Rabt Institute, which showed that Croatia is the EU member with the highest level of public procurement corruption, and with Romania and Bulgaria it belongs to the EU's most corrupt countries, the results show. Croatia, Romania and Bulgaria are leading a group of 14 EU countries, with an average level of corruption standing in the survey, and according to a public procurement corruption risk index, Croatia is at the very top in front of Cyprus, Lithuania and Romania. Croatia, Bulgaria, Romania and Latvia lose about 15% of GDP annually, which would total about 50 billion kuna for Croatia. What I finally want to say in this replica, that one of the reasons why young people leave Croatia is that they think they will have a better chance of success in their lives in countries where the level of corruption is lower.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52218	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52219	Thank you very much. So a fellow appointment of the National Council will go at the same time as the appointment of all external members of the Assembly Committees. As far as the Croatian Democratic Community is concerned, we have long made a decision on who will be our members. However, it is precisely the problem that the SDP club has not yet shown itself about its members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52220	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52221	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleagues in your presentation have pointed out that you will support this report and certainly we from the HSS Club and I will personally support the report. It is an indicator of the developments in public procurement, transparency and the prevention of public procurement corruption. I think we all need to be unanimous in supporting this approach to public procurement and spending public money. And you come from local self-government and your experiences are certainly significant. Often local self-government units in some projects, in preparation for a public tender to avoid a long-term process of appeal, resort to the division of a particular project on several smaller projects and to help the local economy to gain such jobs through the bagatelly purchase of their investment as soon as possible. I support that, however, I think it would be fairer if we then increased the threshold for this leprosy supply and thus did not deceive ourselves and the bidders. Secondly, in the case of tenders for public procurement, any bidder must submit its financial reports in order not to owe to the State and the rest. So I'm asking you what certain bidders can do now who have lost their jobs because the competition was a company from Agrokora, which has now been found to have false financial reports and whether these public procurements can be annulled and that bidders who have lost their jobs come to justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52222	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52223	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I'd like to refer first to this part of you that you were talking about chopping up public procurement. Indeed, it is inadmissible, but almost all the mayors, especially in our coastal part, we resort to such a way. For example, the budget is made for next year in December. January 1st, you can have a procurement plan, then you're just about to go to tender. You get to Easter, and you still don't have a signed contract. And that's when we resort to really pulling public procurement, which we know is legally not exactly right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52224	Thank you. We move to the discussion of the SDSS Club and the respected representative Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52225	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Mr Matesic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen parliamentary representatives. In the meantime, I'm going to say that the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this report. He'll think he's right and good-quality. However, it is an opportunity to point to positive shifts, but also some ambiguities in this document. In fact, the commission has confirmed it is a very important anti-corruption tool whose public action is transparency in work and availability confirms the following facts. So, the State Commission website in the last year, so in 2016 visited a million, had a million registered reviews that is certainly an important fact. Both the public and the availability of legal practice is very important and all decisions are, therefore, published on the page and it significantly facilitates our work. I especially commend the existence of apps for mobile devices, which is also something that is a modern trend and is very commendable. Comparatively, compared to the previous period of 2014 to 2015, the report is actually very similar to them. So, the Commission's work is what was said several times after this speaker was actually in the sign of the adoption of a new law that came into force in 2017, and we will certainly all find it more interesting to follow the 2017 report. About the statistics that are listed and it's very transparent, I'm not going to repeat it so it won't take time. But it's indicative of me, so in that sense, you'd be asking for an explanation of these 870 choices. I'd love to hear your interpretation of that number. I also consider it a positive reduction in the time from the appeal to the decision-making process in four days. It is equally commendable and shortening the time of completion of the appeal of cases of decision-making within 7 days. I suppose this is the result of electronic communication with parties, and in 2017 we certainly expect this reduction trend to continue. This confirms the thesis, as well as the evaluation, that systems, in which first degree legal protection is provided in public procurement procedures, i.e. the State Commission are mostly more effective in the duration of the proceedings and in this decision-making standard. So I'm not going to compare 568 days to the average of the administrative dispute. It is also very important to point out that public procurement is considered one of the most critical activities, i.e. unlike corruption and perceptions of corruption in the public procurement system is very high, I do not have to mention it. You know that very well. However, it should be mentioned for this speaker that the 2016 corruption perception index shows that unfortunately the Republic of Croatia has gone back in the fight against corruption for these two points, so unfortunately we are among the corrupt. We are worse than Hungary, Romania, Italy, Greece, which is why it is important for this job to do quality work which will be continuously educated while also educating bidders to make quality and concrete offers. I am sure that the new law, in that sense, education and the application of this new law, must certainly be worked on. Also, according to HUP, the total value of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia is about 400 billion kuna, so 1700 orderrs and about 5,000 bidders who make about 22 thousand public contracts are involved in these procedures. It's a truly commendable number of participants and, of course, they're under the public eye. So besides these positive ones, as I said, the shifts and effects of praise are valuable and certainly an electronic advertiser, however, we must highlight certain difficulties, i.e. legal ambiguities, published in public. It is one decision of the State Commission where we had a situation where in one call for competition with the open public procedure documentation on the last day of delivery of the system of operators through which tenders are delivered in electronic form did not work. The complainants informed the contracting authorities in due time, and the state commission rejected the complaint and a administrative dispute was initiated. I'll point out that it's a huge purchase value, so hundreds of millions of kunas, but the procedure in which foreign bidders took part. In the decision of the state commission, she found it in her reasoning that the client is not responsible for an operator that is neither a proxies nor an agent. Then it follows that the party is responsible for the operator even though the party has even less to do with the client. Such and similar situations should be considered, crossed safely and there must be an obligation and an operator who obviously in this case has done damage, but as I said, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52226	Thank you, too. We don't have any replicas, so we move on to the SDP Representatives' Club and Honorable Representative Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52227	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Matesic and his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. So here's the report on the work of the State Commission to control public procurement procedures, and I'm going to talk a little bit in the introduction in general about some things that worry me a little, and these things precede the very appeal procedure. Namely, our Public Procurement Act is what it is, and I think maybe it could be a little bit different. We're more sacred than the Pope himself. A colleague of Mrak-Taritash spoke about a practice in the Netherlands with florists, I don't know if you listened to her or not, but my colleagues from work were in the Netherlands, so they spoke in general about public procurement and then saw how much protection the domestic economy is, how much the Dutch prefer domestic businessmen in the public procurement system. That's what I'd like to say, clearly has nothing to do with you specifically, but it has to do with the law, I think it's something we should all think about, clearly don't break the law because we know that EU regulation is such that we can't prefer domestic businessmen, but I think we should really think about it. Clearly, there is also a rule on easy procurement and thresholds where we have 200 thousand kuna for the purchase of the goods, and 500 thousand kuna for the services, and it is absolutely good, although perhaps that threshold should be increased. This is particularly clear in the units of local self-government where we local leaders try to include domestic businessmen in all possible works and I think we should think about and introduce it into the Public Procurement Act, perhaps even increase those thresholds. It is not a matter of manipulation and manipulative things, but simply a matter of literally caring for their economies who pay taxes at our level, contributions and should think about it. Clearly, not breaking the law, this is not an invitation to break the law, but to adapt the law. We Croats turn out there's nothing we can do, and there's a lot out there they can do. Here's the way you'd say this intro. And now specifically why we have a lot of complaints. I think a lot of people who run the procurement process think they're doing it in their own business. When we look at how many cancellations and complaints we have for public procurement here is the most hep, the city of Zagreb and others that keep showing up here, while counterpart Mrak-Taritaš also mentioned Zagreb, that if nothing is done in Zagreb without the mayor Bandic, I agree, although yesterday he denied Mr Bandic when he was asked about the Saints, then he said it had nothing to do with him. He has nothing to do with anything that's ticklish, it's definitely like that. And what he decides, and decides literally everything, just washes his hands when something is not interesting and is not in his interest. So we have literally companies doing it like they're doing it for their own business. It's clear that the state commission has one ungrateful job, it's hard to determine that someone has made public procurement and that they've affected anyone, themselves or anyone. What else, which we have a lot of complaints about, are professional complainants. Now, as head of the local self-government unit, I can talk a lot about it, and I know how much trouble I had when, here, I run a public procurement process, and you're spinning, I don't know, a huge amount. So someone who complains of regrets comes to you either for blackmail or for some of their own interests. It's hard to prove, and you did well, Mr. Matesic said at the beginning when I asked you one question, it's hard to prove for those who manipulate. However, there is no need to give it up. This is not a criticism, this means something that here we would all have to think together how to disable these professional manipulationists. One of the proposals is, like this, the right to appeal has every economic operator who has or has a legal interest. When we read this then we know that everyone has a legal interest, everyone can find themselves in it, everyone has a legal interest and everyone has a right to blackmail, is it clear, in all these companies that are dealing with it, they have lawyers and they'll find ways to simply complain. They make it more than once, and they don't make it. But is it possible to put in law that these professional complainants should be punished? It's not easy, but I'm saying you shouldn't give up again. What this report clearly sees immediately, it is for every praise that the total execution, i.e. the costs were for 8 million 653 or 99% planned and in 2016 the state budget with the basis of the fee for the initiation of the appeal procedure and the administrative fee was paid to the amount of 21 million kuna. Bravo. I don't think we can have a lot of examples of agencies, committees or I don't know, state institutions in general that have made more income than they've spent. So this is really bravo here for you, Mr. Matesic and your associates or those who have brought DECOM into this situation in these years. Clearly there's a reason why we have a lot of mourners but let them pay, God forbid, if we can punish them. Furthermore, what is little perhaps, a little criticism, human potential, we have 29 employees and the Internal Design Regulation says that 48 employees should be. Maybe it's a little bit illogical because if we say we have 92% of the cases solved and these 8% more apply to those who came at 12 months so they haven't been able to be solved. So that's enough people. You'll probably have a little more work to do because of the new Public Procurement Act, there will be even more possibilities for manipulation and everything. But here, in any case, I think that this number of employees is probably good for now, you should always strive to be better, to solve more complaints, and when we talk about solving more complaints, then I'd rather focus this way on maybe being faster. It is said that, in this paragraph, the duration of the legal protection procedure prescribed in Article 171 which is required by the State Commission to adopt and publish a decision within 30 days. God forbid it's smaller and shorter, we came here on average in 2016 from 38 days to 34 days, and it's probably the completion of the documentation. It would be good if it were all under 30 days if you didn't really stop the work. Further, praise for transparency. I don't think there should be any single grudges about transparency. The official network resident of the State Commission shall contain relevant information relating to the system of legal protection in public procurement as well as to the work of the State Commission and shall also contain exhaustive instructions on the appeal procedure at the same address. By raising work to the highest possible level of transparency through the publication of all relevant data and information on the work of this State body has become fully available. Users can also use mobile devices to review the decisions of the State Commission. Well done for the State Commission on transparency. Next, here's the number of complaints received. 1103 complaints received relating to public procurement, 32 concessions on concessions and we have 0 complaints on public private partnership. Now someone would say, in a public private partnership, everything is great, but the thing is that we have 12 contracts in a public private partnership, 12 contracts all year round. And now I'm asking you and we've had a Public Private Partnership Agency until a very long time, and now that we're talking about efficiency, we're talking about 12 public private partnership contracts that maybe even some of them aren't active, 12 contracts. And today we have, I think we have a public private partnership department. Public private partnership, for the department we have 12 contracts, clearly there are no complaints in the field of public private partnership. It's nothing to do with DCOM again, but here's the story of someone hearing me. The structure of the items received and solved in 2016, the complaint is adopted by 413, 413 or 39% and the appeal is rejected and the appeal is dismissed, we have almost 50 or over 50%, respectively. And these complaints are being rejected, they're those manipulative complaints, there's almost 24%, and in that direction I think we should take a little bit more account as much as possible. So we have a lot of professional complainants. According to Article 168, the State Commission may also impose fines on the contracting authority in duly prescribed cases. In 2016, in accordance with the provisions of Article 168, no fines have been imposed in view of the fact that the conditions for expression have not been laid down by law. It would be good to punish those who have initiated public competition proceedings and not in accordance with the law as should those who are professional complainants. I have already mentioned who are most often wrong, HEP is here under No.1, City of Zagreb. Well, HEP has a lot of public procurement procedures, the City of Zagreb, better not to comment. And something to draw attention to, this isn't a criticism either, but I think it might help Decom. Appeals are mostly passed by lawyers. I have nothing against lawyers, we have lawyers everywhere today, we have to make sure, especially us in local self-government units, nothing is done anymore, without the blessing of a lawyer, that's what I know in the example. Without my lawyer, I don't make any decisions anymore. But it wouldn't be good if they were just lawyers on the State Commission, but there were professions. We have multiple times, we consider and we are in the spirit of the law, because lawyers determine certain things that may be just formal defects. I'm not saying it's just a point and a decimal or a word. More than once, the appeal is dismissed here, so I'd say it's for formal matters. So there should be more respect for that being in public procurement, if it's gone wrong somewhere because it's put the wrong point or the wrong sort of formal thing, I don't think public procurement should be rejected and complaints should be passed, but it should be seen about being. More complaints to refuse because of shortcomings I cannot be, significantly affecting the procedure. And one thing, would it be possible for me to do one unique documentation and that we... The complaints are repeatedly dismissed because, behold, every city or every municipality has another public tender. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can we make it there so we can be more... It would be in favor of less opportunity to manipulate complaints. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's something I've seen in my observations. In any case, this report is good, this report will support the SDP Club, but I'm saying, we all need to work on it, make it better in the future and get as little trouble as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52228	Thank you, too. We have 3 replicas, the first one was answered by a respected representative, Glasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52229	So by reading your report, this may not be addressed to our speaker here, but when I look at this, everything is statistically covered, but you know what the military says, there are statistics, there's bigger statistics, there's a bigger lie, something like that. I'm not saying you're lying here, but I'm listening to this debate and I hear that some disputes last on average 500 and a few days in Zagreb, plus 700 plus days in this one. You're according to your report here, 40% of the cases have been solved, I think if I didn't make this one wrong, a total of 1285 for 2015, 2016. 40% solved. But I'm wondering this, we've always mentioned a word of coordination, here we've heard about this about corruption, we have a strategy to stop corruption, as it is possible that we have hundreds of companies in Croatia, thousands... employee, gray economy 30%, what is the coordination between the body and always one word of the mechanism appears. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where is the mechanism to implement it on the ground, and that is primarily USKOK, police, etc. When we're going to be professional, that administration has to be professional if we're going to make progress, that's why we don't have that yet, that's why we have kleptocrat, el dorado for the heads, that's what they're doing in the state budget, who haven't paid, they owe hundreds of millions of kuna taxes, it's 30.4 billion dollars out there between '4. And '16. For years, where's that money? First I would ask you as heirs to your party's gentleman, how this tender for public procurement in communism was then done and perhaps you have some for us new instructions so that we can improve it from this one party system in this plural democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52230	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52231	I wish you didn't see any white mice all the time. You're always attacked by some communists, some I don't know, your expressions can't even repeat. I'll focus on what you've criticised me, or what you've said about Deca, right, so there's no 500 days safe to solve objects, these are administrative procedures, clearly they last. What lasts and we have mentioned it in a loud and nice way, from 38 days to 34 days it's for every praise and we focus on it, I think that's why I commended the work of Decom and the team that works there and you need to be careful and listen to what I'm saying, because these 500 days have nothing to do with the procedures or that's it, and the white mice are here without commenting anymore. You always see white mice and someone who attacks you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52232	Second replica, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So when we talk about public procurement and the subject of the report is, of course, public procurement, the fact that many companies in Croatia have failed because of public procurement, because of the fact and it is known that, let's say that on Croatian highways, a gram of iron is not from Split's hardware, iron was installed, and then the Split Ironworks collapsed, but it was imported. So on this very element we see that the problem and in the case of concessions, you also mentioned concessions, just to mention, numerous competitions over concessions on beaches that are absolutely within the public procurement law itself have been seen to be favourable. So we see the concession law, we're not going to talk about drinking sources, where Cetina was assigned for 5,000 kuna in 37 seconds and debates at the government in 2015. So all public procurement, most public procurement essentially destroyed the competition of those business entities that were promising, which were good, they were mostly destroyed solely because of poor public procurement. And of course it should change the law not only on public procurement but also on a number of other laws to survive public procurement to survive competitive companies that could develop. In Croatia, both at local and regional level due to public procurement, numerous companies failed and destroyed, had a perspective, and survived those who were exclusively eligible through public procurement and therefore had this kind of economy. I think the key to amending the law and more transparent monitoring of these public procurements is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52234	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52235	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I was talking about public procurement and it's clear that the Public Procurement Act needs to be adapted and changed. It's never the ideal law and it can always be better. I also talked about concessions and public-private partnerships in that context that the public-private partnership almost has no... contract with us. But I believe you've memorized what we've been saying, and now you've been doing a little replicating it, public procurement should go in the direction of favoring the domestics. I'm sure you're also on the same track, I say foreigners are absolutely adapting the laws to their masters, and that's something we can't do, something we have to be more sacred than the Pope himself, and that's what worries me. Why shouldn't we in one part please our economies, especially the units of local self-government that can give jobs to those who pay taxes, who pay contributions, we have to take care of that. And I'll say it again, even though I said it was a pay phone, that we should raise this threshold of 200 and 500 thousand kuna precisely because of it. Not because they'd like to please the economy, but to give them a chance to work where they pay taxes and where they're employed. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52236	Let's go to the third replica, dear colleague Vezligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52237	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's my colleague Prelec in yours, except that you have referred to this report by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, which I also commend, I have no objections, you also mentioned that the largest number of appeal cases refer to HEP Operator of the Distribution System. Why do I want to mention something about HEP here now? In fact, we have a situation not momentarily that on several occasions public procurement for the purchase of low-voltage, medium-voltage cables and information that I have. And what's happening to us? In fact, HEP has actually set up columns all over Croatia that you can't do now because the public procurement for cables has fallen can't reconstruct a low voltage network, for example. Speaking from the point of view of the local unit other than what is important to us for the quality of electricity supply for us, it is also important to us because of that fifth wire famous that we use for public lighting. So what happens now? You have a situation that certain local units have come to this stage that they even finance cable purchase so that HEP can set something that is actually its activity. So we all know that HEP has enough money in his account to sponsor a number of events, and he can't do this. So because, I'm not going to say that it's your fault now because as far as I see it, the objects are being processed quite quickly, whether it's the guilt of the system that went in one sense to rationalize, so it went to a unique public procurement, and then the whole system is standing there and it's not going to be able to do that reconstruction that's necessary for our citizens to have quality electricity supply, and so that local units can invest in public lighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52238	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52239	If you noticed a colleague HEP's problem, I in local self-government units they have a monopoly talking about it, some say they have no monopoly, they have a monopoly and often are doing pressure on local self-government units to help them in one part of their activity. I agree absolutely here it might be a question of why HEP has so many complaints, and when we look at only 35% of them are adopted, 65% are complaints that have basics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52240	Thank you. A colleague of Maras quits, and then, finally, on behalf of the rapporteur, he is a respected Mr Goran Matesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52241	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I owe two answers to a question and two sentences. One answer to the question was the budget spending of the state commission on the basis of the lease, a million kuna. The situation is that, by coming in, we tried to reduce, if it's a comfort that FINA is the most fashionable, then those funds come back into the state budget. As far as unused salaries are concerned, it is that some maternity permits, which, due to the shortness and specificity of high expertise, have failed to fill those jobs and have remained unused. Dear Representative Jeckov told us about the number of unscheduled selection decisions compared to the documentation. Yes, there are more complaints about choice than about documentation, but the new law has fixed it, and now all those who have expressed interest in applying the new Public Procurement Act, we will soon draw up one at the end of the third quarter of a report on the application of that regulation, we will publish it and you will be able to see these trends. In conclusion, I can say that it is a pleasure to be here today on behalf of the State Commission, all your praises for the report on the work of the State Commission whose content you have contributed to your remarks and I will pass it on to the people of the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52242	I thank my colleague Matesic and conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs should now go to the vote. Unfortunately, I can see there's no one from the SDP Representatives Club. I thought and lived in the belief that we agreed to approach the vote, but obviously not. So I'm gonna take a break now, it's about, of course, selecting constitutional judges. I'm going to give a half hour to 12:30 break to do more consulting, see why we're not here in a larger number, so I'll see you at the 12:30 vote. It's 11:00.55. Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2016. The report is submitted by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. An annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 91 for, 2 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52244	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're continuing the plenary session, so I'd like to ask you to take your seats. It is the agenda item: - Final draft law on the completion of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.96 The applicant of the act shall be the SDP Representatives Club pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the representative of Mr. Gordan Maras to give us an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52245	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs. More than seven months ago, the SDP advocates' club was directed to the parliamentary procedure of the draft law on the completion of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, with the final proposal for a law. As a representative club, we have assessed that this law should be referred to an emergency procedure because of the major environmental problem that our citizens in Slavonski Brod and Posavina County have, because this problem is not solved for years and it needs to be sincere and not only to bring it into contact with one government but several governments. And for the last ten years, this problem has been escalating in Slavonski Brod, our people have been exposed to major pollutants, our people are exposed to problems that can't solve for themselves or can't be solved within the Republic of Croatia, they're exposed to diseases, they're exposed to the quality of life, so the quality of life is very endangered, and what I've said, and what we're particularly concerned about, is that there's been an increase in the number of patients that are caused by pollutants associated with substances and particles that are in the air, which are due to certain production that we have around Slavonski Brod. All representatives in the Croatian Parliament and all clubs in the Croatian Parliament agreed on the need for the urgency of the adoption of this law and was sent to the accelerated procedure, i.e. in two readings, for it to be discussed and voted on. Unfortunately, as honest as this was, it tells you that although we agreed in March of the month on the urgency of the adoption of this law, seven months later the law comes to debate in the Croatian Parliament. The SDP and this law proposes and this is something that is the taste of this law, so unless we can solve the problem of pollution in Slavonski Brod through bilateral talks, unless the situation changes for years we need to do something that we can, which is in our power, which is to protect our citizens from at least having the infrastructure that Croatia has not been supplying oil that later in the plant endangers human health. It's very simple and picturesque to tell you. Croatia has the infrastructure for the transport of oil products, which is done mostly in oil pipelines, and we transport or transport oil to our oil pipelines in Rafineri, Bosnia and Herzegovina, where production takes place in plants that are not adequately equipped and then pollution threatens human health over 100,000 directly because it is not a modernized plant, and we have made it possible to operate this plant with oil or passing through our infrastructure. The question arises as to why investors in the Bosnian Ship refuse to work for ten years on modernising the refinery, the question is whether they would be forced to do so in such a way that if their transport would be higher in order to pay them more to modernise the plant, instead of paying for more expensive transport and asking whether Croatia could do such a thing under international agreements? It is our proposal that we define by law in Croatia that no facility can be proven if studies and analyses prove that it endangers the health and quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, means that it can be impossible to refuse access to this oil infrastructure or other resources that would be covered by the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. So in Article 1, we ask that the following point be deleted in Article 5 behind the wording of the product manufacturer and words are added that oil access in the event of the health and quality of life of the population of the Republic of Croatia can be disabled by cross-border emissions of polluting substances resulting from the process of oil processing. I don't see why anyone in the Croatian Parliament would be against that solution for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I don't see why we wouldn't allow ourselves or JANAF to refuse oil that has been directly proven to endanger the health and quality of our fellow citizens' lives, and I think that this law can be complemented and at least try to solve or begin to solve this great problem that is happening in Slavonski Brod and Brodo-Posavina County. I'm not going to try to tell you this because it's very difficult if you don't live there in Slavonski Brod how much of a problem that is. All who vote on this bill must be aware that the people of Slavonski Brod will see who voted, that they will assess whether and how someone helped them both at the Club of Representatives of the SDP is the urgency for us to all be unanimous about this. There is no reason to vote on this topic because I am convinced that in the Croatian Parliament everyone wants a better quality life of our citizens, less health problems, and that we are all aware that ten years so far nothing is almost and nothing has moved. That we have a yearly in certain substances and particles of excess annual value, means 70, 80 times which, already proved with many studies, directly endangers the health of our people. For example, in the case of H2S pollutants, 160 excesses in one year. So practically every other day, our citizens are at risk of manufacturing in a Bosnian ship that then pollutes and reduces the quality of life of our fellow citizens. I invite you from here to support all clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament this law, we are not satisfied and we are aware that before this debate yesterday, the government has reached a certain conclusion of the cooperation protocol on the implementation of the natural gas supply project by the final oil refinery buyer Ship at the session, which will take some modernisation and the project will last, who knows how many years. If the project is really allowed to be less polluted within 4.5 years, the quality of life is greater, on this side it and JANAF, or those who have the option under this law, will be able to behave again in a way that will satisfy our fellow citizens. So this law does not prevent access, meaning possible access but it must not be brought into line with the quality of life and health protection of our citizens in Slavonski Brod. This law leaves the possibility to prevent access to certain facilities that have a direct adverse impact on our health. I call on you to accept this at the bottom, I invite you to take our people, unfortunately here is how these discussions are put into terms in which almost no one will follow this debate publicly anymore, but I'm sure, the people of Slavonski Brod, no matter how few MPs are in the assembly, which is what it is, that people will listen to what the clubs of the representatives of individual parties say and by that is determined. I invite you to accept this law because it does not restrict anyone and helps our fellow citizens to have a better quality of life and, on the other hand, to make it impossible for us to affect the health of hundreds of thousands of our citizens who are currently in Slavonski Brod to act. Be aware of that when you accept or do not accept our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52246	I would like to thank the representative of the motionor, dear colleague Gordan Maras, for this explanation. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, good. We have two replicas, dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52247	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, in your presentation you said more than one thing that I could absolutely sign. So, I really don't think anyone here in this House can and can have a figure in their pocket and let's say I don't live there so I don't care about people in Slavonski Brod. I have been in Slavonski Brod countless times, I felt it myself, and surely it must be a priority not only of local self-government units but first of all of the government. In your bill of law, unfortunately for all good reason, I don't see that happening for a number of reasons. First, if we let go of all the international conventions on the free flow of derivatives, oil products and all that they would violate and sue if they were citizens, so let them sue us, but I'm afraid they'd just change the way oil was supplied from the pipeline, maybe to the railways or to the tanks, sued JANAF, and charged the price difference, and it would still be polluted. And I'm afraid that would happen if we made it so we wouldn't solve the problem. So here's not a thing we will-not, I'm afraid this wouldn't solve the problem. Also, the enforceability of the law where JANAF was supposed to determine what and how oil is used, oil that must meet technical standards, so here is no problem in oil quality, the problem is in the quality of the refinery itself. Implementing to determine where the oil goes, not only in Bosnia but also in Serbia, up in the Czech Republic, for those who store oil, so what they do with them later in our warehouses where it is quite difficult to implement, especially if they measure what is unequivocal, break up and continue to have such a problem. What we've heard in the news of going to gas, I think it's possible that this will give us the solution that we all want, which we want, and which we don't have the right to ignore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52248	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52249	Thank you very much. Mr. Curaj, our citizens deserve to at least try. What you said, I'm afraid not. Well, let's at least try. So honestly, why is the oil supplied by JANAF, or the pipeline? Because it's so cheap. Well, maybe someone in some account will realize that maybe you should invest in modernization, that it'll cost him less than to bring oil to the tankers which I think is the most expensive and that it won't happen to the railroad like you said. The point is that these people are moving there, not that we're allowing them with our infrastructure to poison our citizens. Watch out for that paradox. With our infrastructure, we allow for cheaper production of someone who does not want to modernise the refinery because he would already have done it in 10 or more years and thus at lower costs we allow them to put unprecedented pressure on our citizens both on their health and on the quality of life. Which is why the state would not pass such a law, and then we will see whether our sovereignty is such that we can make laws as it is or above, or whether they are, those international conventions above our laws. I guarantee you they're not. It can be proven. There are countless studies, so I guess you're aware that you don't even have to be an expert to see that it's related to each other. There are hundreds of studies that have already proved the link between modernization and quality of life in Slavonski Brod. Like you say, you're afraid he won't, but at least he's trying to do something. If you do not try to take responsibility for what is at work today, it is also a health problem and quality of life in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52250	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply. We have another replica. Dear colleague of the Goddess Macar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Maras, otherwise we spoke many times in this assembly from both the pay phone and the bench, we read a lot and we were all concerned about the situation in Slavonski Brod. And I must confess that you are the first to try to solve something through the law. However, I am personally interested in whether you are truly convinced and whether you think that the ban on the transport of JANAF, if JANAF will no longer transport that oil at the same time mean the termination of production in the Bosnian Ship and therefore, at least, the reduction of production and therefore healthier air for our citizens in Slavonski Brod. Because I'm sure that won't happen. But I'm saying I appreciate your attempt to solve something. I think it's important that we take a stand here. This bilateral conversation between Croatia and Bosnia, that is, to speed up the construction of the pipeline, to do so, to put an accent there. But I'm saying, I appreciate your efforts, I appreciate your efforts, but it would be good if we put a little bit more emphasis on this segment because that would have been more likely to produce results. Because knowing how entrepreneurs think. They'll make their calculations. We can ban something. But as soon as something is banned, there's always an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52252	I thank my colleague at least for this replica. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52253	Well, Mrs. Macar, I'm sure I'm not into anything. You know what it's called "just having to die". So you can't know if or how much it's going to help. But this is a concrete attempt to do something. People won't be satisfied with what you said or Mr. Churi has heard in the news that certain gasification will be made. People worry about it, especially if it's not going to be four, five years or even close to function. You tell the people that they will be 4, 5 years old and what is not Prime Minister Plenkovic in this protocol, which the government adopted yesterday at the session, why there is nowhere here until it guarantees the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this project will end and that this will make our people's lives more quality. He's nowhere to be found. They accept a private initiative that's great. There will also be some benefits for certain entrepreneurs in the construction, supply of gas, etc. But five years, none of our people. So on that side they won't benefit at all one long, long period. I can't be sure of anything, but I'm sure that this production can be pressured by the manufacturer to modernize if this oil supply is less profitable than it was yesterday. And do not be afraid if and how much Croatia will have a lawsuit there, etc. We've taken many risks. Now you can see in Agrokor the amount of lawsuits. Here's today the Russians are saying we pay the debt of Agrokor as a state. We took great risks. I don't think this is too much of a risk to our people in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52254	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply. Does the government's representative want to give an additional explanation? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52255	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, fellow promoter, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think we're this close to protesting in Slavonski Brod, then it would be a clear message. Actually, we're not gonna let anything happen. Right? This shows the state of actually what we want to do. But I'm saying, let's go back a little bit, so that there wouldn't be this conclusion on the government that was made, something special because in 2014, the decision was made, that the refinery in the Bosnian ship would be supplied with gas instead of a maputt and thus have fuel in its refinery. So in 2014, it's been three years. And then there was a game that they wanted, but that when the South Stream was set, then they would take gas from there and not from Croatia. Then it was tied to the thermal power plant, Mr. Cermak if it had been built there, then there would have been cooperation. But I'd just come back to keep it all together since 2007 when it was taken over... In 2008, the refinery itself was launched, but I assure you, if you have spoken to the people involved there, in the work of the refinery, who are professionally subdued about it, that nothing is invested in that refinery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Her technological readiness for production is extremely low, only the most necessary remonts are done, so that she can process oil and what kind of oil? He's processing, so-called. Russian oil that has a high percentage of sulphur from a bad plant, from bad oil, results in these effects that the population complains about, but I'd say, we have to be honest. We're not just fighting here for the people of Slavonski Brod, we're fighting for the population of the Bosnian ship. Because their authority actually holds them in their hands and those jobs that their ministry is for, in fact, the Ministry of Ecology of Republika Srpska, they gave them an ecological license and they all live in one fear, that if that permit was not given, then the investor would withdraw. I say, it's justifiable fear, because the refinery itself, it's, according to the data, here's what I had until last year, produced losses worth up to about 500 million euros. With the owner not having capitalised on the company itself, they have never paid even the Republika Srpska part of what they have committed to taking over. They didn't invest money in a way that they put in capital, but they gave a loan, and they'll certainly try to collect everything they can by leaving, and they'll be left with nothing but damage over the year. And then we talk about what we should do. We see that MOL's going to close the refinery in Sisak, which is technologically at a much higher level than the refinery in the Bosnian ship. And now, what do you do? We can sign some protocol, we are ready, we are ready all these years to connect to the Croatian gas pipeline system, not only the refinery in Brod, but also the consumers who would be there. However, we see neither political readiness nor the minister herself, she is therefore, the prime minister of Republika Srpska not so long ago said that she was actually a Russian investor, the refinery is the target of Croatian parliamentarians' attacks. We're here who want to close the refinery in the boat. I don't think anybody said that, but we want the refinery to be modernised, to meet all environmental standards, to protect the interest of the end and the EU, whose member we are. Because in the end Croatia is an EU territory. Not so long ago, our prime minister, when he was a Parliamentarian in the European Parliament, sent a letter wishing to change something, that the EU would stand behind our desire to start some processes, but the answer we didn't get, we can say compassion, but it seems that today we will only send out a wish of compassion but I can see that there is no significant change. So after this, we can say, it's not just the sulphur hydrogen that smells, it's going to stink up the whole political situation. What we should point out is that it's not just policy responsibility, and I'm also talking about our governments and foreign policy, where we haven't found a model of how to influence our neighbouring country, to change our policy, according to the owner of the refinery, we see that our politicians, whoever went to Bosnia, when he came out of Bosnia, got another knife in the back to follow him nicely. No politician who went there with good intentions received support. Something's wrong with the way we're leading our foreign policy, and we definitely need to look for the causes, how we got hurt, if it's some conflict with Russia that might be smoldering, so in this way we're actually the victim. This could have been discussed, but in the end it will not help the citizens of Slavonski Brod, but responsibility is on our State's Attorney's Office, because a criminal application was filed in 2010. I didn't see the results of the investigation, or that the application was rejected, or that something was initiated. And that is why it is clear that the commitment and the inhabitants of Brod and local authorities, that the solution is sought in Zagreb, no longer in Slavenski Brod, nor in Bosnian Brod, but they are asking the state authorities that are based in Zagreb to finally resolve it. I am the proposal that my colleague Maras made on behalf of the proposer. He may be radical, but after all these years, after nine years of tending and wanting to do something, we probably have to start with such radical moves because otherwise we will never be in a position to have quality negotiations to change something. We're a country, when we're a state and we're set up, then we're going to create conditions to change something. If we think about what happens all the time, then we'll never move with this proposal, and trust me, given that the data we have, there's no investment in the refinery, there'll be no investment in the refinery. Let's not kid ourselves that only gas deliveries actually build a gas system to connect to the refinery will be something that will make a change. So it's just maybe calculating, bringing people into error that it's settled. I'd like to hear the same, too, if it's really going to happen in a year. How long does it take for such an investment? I think Plinacro's ready. We would all like gas to be sold if we had another quality consumer, so that the transport cost of gas, given the increase in volume, is reduced then we all benefit. They benefit residents of Slavonski Brod, Bosanski Brod a better life, we as the Croatian state are supplied with gas, we charge transportation costs. I don't see why we're even talking about it or hearing the word that we should be slow. We need to be very quick and protect not only the interests of people but also to say that we are an interested party. An independent list advocates' club will give support to this bill. Of course, we expect that if everyone thinks that this proposal is not complete enough to submit their additions, the amendments to this proposal and thus create one position. And I believe that if we were to adopt this law so that we could find an agreement very quickly with the owner of the refinery and that its application would not have to happen at all. Is as long as we don't apply the law, there's no danger of being sanctioned, but it's enough when we have the law that everyone realizes that without a deal, they won't be able to continue. So we support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52256	I thank my colleague Panenic for this debate. We have two replicas. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52257	I agree with you almost completely what you said, except with one, you said we're not for closing the refinery, did you say that? I have to say to say it differently, we just want the people of Slavonski Brod to have clean air. Is that why we're closing the refinery or against closing it, absolutely irrelevant. So the fact that you really need to do something here. I'd say my opinion, clearly not this official attitude, I'd say I'm also for closing the refinery if it's the only possibility that people in Slavonski Brod have clean air. What are we talking about? The clean air, the right to live, in this case we're talking about the right to live. How many diseases are caused by the very impure air in Slavonski Brod, that's crucial. A colleague Maras talked about having mechanisms, the Croatian state has mechanisms to simply prevent it, no longer benefits. Croatia when it entered the EU, then we should have met a whole set of conditions. Slovenians gave us no idea how many conditions, you can't do this, you can't do that, the Ljubljanska Banka, St. Gera's been around a lot, and we're acting like we can't condition anyone. If we can't condition BiH to give Slavonski Brod a chance at clean air, then we can say so there's a way to blackmail them. It may be a harsh word to blackmail, but we have to have mechanisms to give people the opportunity to breathe clean air, to have the right to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52258	I thank my colleague Prelc for the replica. My colleague Panenic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52259	Thank you very much for your comment, but I would return to our not so long ago past, if you remember that the refinery in Sisak was also a contaminant at one time, that the population of Sisak was insolent and what happened? There's been a modernization. But imagine the situation that we are today that this refinery is polluting, that the population is complaining, and that MOL finds an excuse to close. That's why we can't even be hypocritical, so tell me we'd just like to close down, no, we want them to modernize, that the working force of the Bosnian ship's population has a place to work, but that we're not in collateral damage. Therefore, as we fight for Sisak, we will fight for any quality drive that can be modernised with some investment and may remain a place where it can be processed. And in the end, if we're looking, it's nice to have close-up security in the oil supply. We never know in any future what and how it will happen and for this we need to give support. But we are a member of the EU, we want to push, and perhaps now the time has matured exactly if it is many years, I have said many years have passed but after many years I think we also have the legitimacy because we have listened to the promises of the owners of the refinery that they will do something. After this time, I think it's time to keep one of the promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52260	I thank my colleague Panenic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52261	Thank you very much. Mr Panenic, your support means a great deal to us because you are the former economy minister and you are certainly in trouble and on this side our citizens can hear that the people responsible for the energy sector support these changes because they believe that certain things were not possible to do, so thank you for your support and we hope that we will get it from other clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52262	I thank my colleague Maras for the replica. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. He's not present. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, very briefly, because as a legislator, I've already said a lot. I can only repeat that the SDP will always take care of its fellow citizens, we thank the clubs that will give us support, hopefully, here I see also the important Club of Representatives of the HDZ, there is no need to alienate it, see who the opposition is, the position, no need to be outsmarted, the problem needs to be solved by our people. Or at least try to solve our people's problem, worst not to do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52264	I thank my colleague Maras for this debate. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Andrija Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52265	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. So here, as we know, the SDP Representatives Club has submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products in which it considers that its adoption would create a legal basis for refusing access to the transport capacity of an energy entity carrying out the activity of oil transport, in the event of a threat to health and quality of life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Club of Representatives proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the above-mentioned bill for the following reasons. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the market in oil and petroleum products, the energy entity carrying out the activity of oil transport, is obliged to provide access to the transport system by means of a legal or natural person, with the technical conditions of access and accession in accordance with specific rules, in an impartial and transparent manner according to the principle of a third party's negotiation approach. An energy operator carrying out an oil transport activity may refuse access to the transport system of a third party, although there are technical or security restrictions or in the case of the filling capacity of the pipeline. In the event of refusal of access, the transport system of the energy entity carrying out the oil transport activity is obliged to submit a decision to the party with reasons for refusing access and the party has the right to appeal to the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The decision of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is an executive and the dissatisfied party, the party, may launch an administrative dispute against the solution of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Let me remind you here that on 18 July 2003, the energy entity carrying out the oil transport activity is. Jadranski naftovod d.d., JANAF, has adopted technical conditions for access to the transport capacities of the Adriatic pipeline d.d. The Energy Regulatory Council has decided to give consent to the technical conditions set out above. At a meeting held on 27 November 2003. Those technical conditions apply in the business of JANAF, as such are mandatory for JANAF and for all its users. Therefore, under these technical conditions, JANAF cannot authorise the transport of oil that meets the technical conditions. But it will refuse to transport any oil that does not meet those technical conditions. In addition, JANAF will refuse to store any oil whose characteristics could adversely affect other oil being transported because it could cause damage to the installations of JANAF or other users' installations. According to the JANAF report, all oil transported from 2013 to 2016 through the JANAF oil refinery system of the Ship, according to the content of the sulphur, was in accordance with technical conditions, or in accordance with the quality of the oil that JANAF transports for all other users, mainly medium sulphur oil. The opinion of the HDZ Club that I want here and stress is that the state of the refinery and its technological and technical characteristics, or air pollution from stationary sources, cannot be undermined under technical conditions or resolved. In addition, in case of refusal of access to the pipeline, energy operators may transport oil by rail, by wagons, by tankers, by road, by car or by river, etc. Barjamas. Therefore, the HDZ Club maintains that the bill would not have the effect of reducing emissions from cross-border traffic. According to the above, we also stress the international obligation of the Republic of Croatia that I have through the Law on the Confirmation of the Energy Charter Treaty as well as various protocols. Following the above, the HDZ Club does not support the law in the proposed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52266	I thank Mr. Mikulic. We have a few replicas, a first replica, a esteemed colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mikulić, I am sorry to hear that the HDZ Club does not support this law or wants to try to solve the problem of our citizens in Slavonski Brod through this law. The fact is that this is not a question of the quality of oil but of the quality of the plant, or of the modernisation of the plant, and the fact is that in Croatia we can pass laws that are adapted to our citizens and that no international charter, consent, arrangements should be ahead of the health and quality of our citizens' lives. This law could allow this to happen if we find a harmful impact on the quality of life and health of our citizens, to make it impossible for our infrastructure to be supplied through our country with certain facilities that do not want to be manifested in any way, or to modernise its facilities. We could do that with this law. No one in this law would make us impossible. And I'm sorry that HDZ can't see, but it will be interesting to see how representatives from that election unit in HDZ will be appointed, especially representatives from Slavonski Brod Mrs Maximčuk and Mr Cosic, to see if they are. And here I call upon the citizens of Slavonski Brod to directly influence them in order to explain at the Club of Representatives of HDZ that this can help all of them in Slavonski Brod. Who is watching us from Slavonski Brod please address Mr. Cosic and Mrs. Maksimchuk and thus try to influence the Club of Representatives of HDZ to change its position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52268	I thank my colleague Maras. Answer, colleague Mikulić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52269	Dear colleague Maras, it's not true that we're not trying and that we don't want to. And we're trying and we want to, but nice of you to say it's not a matter of transporting oil here, it's a matter of processing. So these are two different things that I think you must know well and well. As far as our parliamentary deputies are concerned, I must disappoint you. They are often with people in Slavonski Brod and talk about this subject, and I will only repeat that the Republic of Croatia is not a lonely island, but has some international obligations. Even when you were in the government, then you stuck to those obligations and signed some at the time. Therefore, we have an international obligation of the Republic of Croatia under the Law on Confirmation of the Energy Charter Treaty, which obliges the Republic of Croatia, among other things, to the free passage of energy materials. So it's something that binds us like the Republic of Croatia. Well, I guess we'll stick to something that binds us or maybe we don't have to stick to it. I plead that we stick to what binds us. And I will remind you of the protocol with the 6th meeting of the Intergovernmental Croatian-Russian Commission for Trade, Economic and Scientific Technical Cooperation of September 2010. It's something we have and we have to stick to. So that's it. We try and want and we all care about the quality of life not only in Slavonski Brod but throughout the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52270	I thank Mr. Mikulic for his reply. The next replica is respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52271	Thank you very much, dear fellow Mikulić. I think you took the right to speak for our government. The current government of Prime Minister Plenkovic in connection with the arbitration we had with Slovenia has taken a stand to protect the parliament's decision, meaning international arbitration, international rules, international obligation. But this Parliament has brought a different one. And the government respects and it fights regardless of international obligations. Are there any risks? There's probably these risks, so I'd like to be here if we just took the same attitude. So if this esteemed House brings a different view, that's what we'll do. We have now, here's the thing, even though we're talking about energy and freedom of movement and capital, the INA Privatisation Act. Are we under pressure by the European Commission? They're gonna push us. The secretary of state is well aware of that. We should do what now? Undo that law, give the MOL an even greater freedom so that it can use the space in which we should give up the law that protects us in one part until there's a right to arbitration. And again, we won't, we don't want to do it until the arbitration relations are clearly resolved. But I'd remind you just not to let us act here against a party that didn't learn how to function that way and the Russian side itself they shut down the gas flow through Ukraine. And what's the matter? It wasn't just Ukraine that got hurt, we were all Croatia and other countries. Any international agreements? Yes, it is. They didn't stick to it? No, they're not. Did we punish them? We didn't. Let's be the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52272	I thank my colleague Panenic. Answer, colleague Mikulić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52273	Dear fellow Panenic, so I'm sorry that you instead of doing things, you're talking about international relations. Well, I'll remind you, you were the Minister of Economy whose jurisdiction it was. What did you do? It's a very simple question what did you do? You had jurisdiction as a minister of the economy. So I didn't see you solve the problem. If you had solved it, we wouldn't have had to solve it now. It's simple for you. Everything in life is when you draw a line plus, minus. So it's very simple. As far as the government of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, I will repeat that position. So you won't be telling me in the Croatian Parliament in front of the Croatian public that the same story is when we talk about processing and transport and about Croatian territory. I don't think so. So much for interpreting the arbitration you're talking about. This is about transportation, not processing. Technologically, it's a completely separate story. So, I repeat, no one is against us standing up for a better and better life and living conditions on Slavonski Brod. And we know in what way and how we're going to do it through legal legislation, but not in a way that we want to get through the transport of oil through something else. That doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52274	I thank my colleague Mikulic for his reply. We have another replica. Dear colleague Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52275	... Croatian Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] I am sorry that you are against this SDP proposal, which is what it is and I think it is going safely in the right direction. But I don't understand if you're against it because it's proposed by the SDP or you're against clean air? I mean, this was also an inappropriate question. I'll answer right away, you're certainly not against the air, but literally nothing seems. It's been years, people breathe air that's absolutely uncleaned, harmful to health, and we do nothing. You're saying we have an international obligation to stick to it, and we have an obligation to protect our citizens. A particular question, do we have a commitment? I think it's absolutely necessary, it doesn't need to be politicized, this is one concrete thing, which we really should take on both left and right, let's protect Slavonski Brod, let's protect the citizens. And this proposal, is it ideal, the SDP Club and counterpart Maras explained why. Is it ideal? There's no ideal law. But gentlemen, let's move some amendments and let this law be passed along with your amendments. But don't just talk, here politically, no, no, we're against it because I know for a fact that you're not against clean air in Slavonski Brod and I believe there's something we can do together for these citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52276	I thank my colleague Preleco. The answer of my colleague Miklic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52277	Here's an esteemed colleague we agree on in one, we're not against clean air. We are not against the quality of improving the quality of life of our citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so we are ultimately here. But when I elaborated on why we're against it. Then we're not against it because the SDP Club moved it. No, I don't. We are opposed for reasons because you say in the proposal that this proposal would create a legal basis for refusing access to transport capacity and energy subject, which carries out the activity of transporting oil in cases etc. Now I'm asking you, you want to fix something, before you ban something. Do you prejudge this proposal that all that is transported is poor quality, that it does not comply with the terms, technical conditions of 2003. Maybe you need to change them, I don't know, so you'll go back to the parole procedure. So, if that's in accordance with the terms, then we have to stick to something. Well, we can't say that something isn't right, and we haven't even checked the quality, or we have papers that satisfy quality through technical conditions. So, two things, separate, transport and processing. That's two things in the tech process. Therefore, no one is in favour of improving and protecting our citizens of Slavonski Brod and that is also our duty in the end, but we are not told by transport that this will be a quality solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52278	I thank my colleague Mikulic. We have the final word of the proposer, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52279	Thank you very much, dear colleague and colleague. The debate was short, few clubs were included, 3 clubs, SDP, Bridge for, HDZ v, I hope that until the vote itself the majority in the Croatian Parliament will be created to vote this law. I'm sorry the government almost didn't get involved in the debate, so the government's representative didn't say anything. The protocol signed yesterday by Prime Minister Plenkovic solves nothing. Unfortunately, we don't do anything, almost nothing for those people. The promise that we gave as a club to people from Slavonski Brod and Posavina County was that we would try to do something and we would continue to try. This is the first proposal, I hope that it will be accepted and I hope and pray to the citizens of Slavonski Brod who are watching us now, until the vote there are at least 5 days if it is on Wednesday, and maybe a week if it is next Friday, to try to explain to their representatives from their county election unit that it would be good to accept this law, because then not as Mr Mikulić says oil problems, because oil problems are not controversial, as we have heard countless times of satisfactory quality, but the problem is modernization, refineries. Or that oil satisfactory quality in the Bosnian Ship refinery produces pollution that plagues citizens of Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County and beyond. So I ask you, once again, to consider this proposal and to find agreement until the vote, to adopt it, because I am convinced that it will at least help our people in Slavonski Brod and Posavina County better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52280	I thank my colleague Maras for this final word. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. This is what we're done with all the points passed today for the plenary session. We continue to work on Wednesday 11.10 p.m. at 9.30 p.m., with the Proposal for a Law on the financing of units of local and regional, regional self-government, first reading, P.Z. No.200. I thank you and I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. Session adjourned at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-06-0.u52281	Final draft law supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 96. The proposer is the SDP Representatives' Club, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. The final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the market in oil and petroleum products is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that the conclusion was supported, 76 MPs, 42 were against, so the conclusion was that the breed was proposed by the home working body. This concludes today's vote, just a few information.
