ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47419	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. Ma'am and gentlemen, here we are. I'm already seeing a highly respected representative, Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47420	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, please pause to talk about the anti-democracy process of including the agenda of the law in the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47421	Okay. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47422	Dear Mr. Vice President on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, I'm looking for a party to say something about the work of pensioners and the tax system of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47423	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47424	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to request a break to say something about Agrokor and other current events, and I believe that the HDZ Club will also ask the party to respond to what we... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47425	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47426	On behalf of the party Let's change Croatia, I'll say something about the economy and state of the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47427	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of the bush, or, which one of you, you both raised your hand. ... Make up your mind, he doesn't have to talk about who answers. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47428	I was going to hang a colleague named Bačić, but I was not understood by my colleague Bulj. So I'm looking for a break on obstructing the work of the investigating committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47429	Thank you very much. Any other club? Dear Representative Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47430	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club for 10 minutes, to talk about the activities of the Parliament regarding the situation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47431	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I am wasting a 10-minute break on the same subject of the investigative commission and otherwise around Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47433	Dear Representative Puh.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47434	On behalf of the HNS Club, I'm looking for a break on the subject of Agrokor and the investigative committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47435	Thank you very much. Almost all the clubs have been looking for, is there anyone else who wants to? If not, then we'll take a break by 9.43. It's 9:00.33. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:43 AM]] The first break on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAG's Club was requested by a respected representative, Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47437	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have to warn you of one. I must warn of a democratic farce that has been happening since the Croatian Parliament probably exists and this farce consists of important laws that citizens in our Republic want to hear about coming to the agenda late, in the night, no transmissions on HRT and then people finding out how they know, some looking over the Internet, some later on in the facebook find videos if they download it, but the laws concerning a large number of citizens should be in prime time. [[My colleagues and colleagues, let's let colleague Alexic say.]] So tomorrow, on the agenda as the 7th item, there is the Law on Consumer Protection Act, which concerns over a hundred thousand Croatian families. It is a law that would solve two very important things for those Croatian families who suffer, so to speak. They're suffering a robbery. In 2013, there was a verdict, a collective verdict in the "Franak case" where it was said to the banks in the ruling that they could no longer change interest rates on their own, but banks continued to change their interest rates on their own, did not respect that verdict and this law, which comes on the agenda tomorrow, if two very important things were resolved. First of all, the issue of interruptions for private court proceedings that rely on collective court proceedings would be resolved. And secondly, it would be settled outside the court's return of the overpaid amount of interest for over a hundred thousand citizens who have been damaged by the illegal business of banks. For the bill, 78 MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament provided support for the bill. So most of the Croatian Parliament supported this proposal, there is great public interest, there is strong support for MPs and MPs, but the law comes on the agenda tomorrow as a 7th point, which means no one will see the debate on the law. I think it's intentional because the government gave a negative opinion on the law, on the bill. The Committee on the Economy gave a negative opinion, and tomorrow it's on the Legislative Committee, so we'll see what he says. So I call on the President of the Croatian Parliament who is not here but I call on his deputies, assistants, vice presidents and I call on the HDZ Club to move this point as much as possible, if possible, to the second place, I am not looking for first place because in the first place it is a very important law and I call on all colleagues and fellow MPs to, if this point remains as much as possible, not to participate in the debates until that seventh point, not to take breaks, to discuss only if they have amendments to the first point and thus enable the seventh point to come to the agenda as soon as possible and not to be in the late hours. In this way we could continue to act and every time an important law is put on the agenda of a certain day, all the less important ones should avoid the debate and not participate in these discussions, and such important laws will come on the agenda at a time when the sun is still shining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47438	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that club on behalf of which will speak distinguished representative Silvano Hrelja, which is GLAS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are destined to make two, three attractive moves, but we never finalize and get a good score of the entire game, to play the whole game to the end because it takes to unite a lot of elements, a lot of factors, a lot of subjects. Here we had an opportunity to discuss here a little less than a year ago the amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act where, after a long time, we had an obligation for pensioners working on a work contract to pay half, so 7.5% of the health contributions and half the pension contributions, so 10%. Of course, we were rebelling at the time, and today we are rebelling, but what is being paid means that after 24 months of payment of such contributions, the state will have to account for one year of additional training for pensioners. Now that that's the case, you should look at the total. So we have the possibility that those users of retirement and disability pensions can, with pensions and work up to 4 hours and in this contract of work. We have the possibility of a contract of action, and I'm asking a question, and now what about craftsmen? Namely, you know very well that a craftsman is willing to retire if he wants me to shut down the crafts. So either he has to pass it on to someone else. When we have a legal solution like this, then I ask you why? If every craftsman's retirement has to shut down the craft, so we're not even giving him a minimum chance to keep doing it, we're not giving this job any chance of doing it here, we're just running out of that twist. Why, for example, did he. Like these other pensioners couldn't retire and still work? After all, he himself will pay more than half his pension through the payment of contributions. On the other hand, we have the Law on Croatian defenders, which suggests that all defenders, regardless of the type of pension, can also work with the pension and even those whose diagnosis is total loss of employment, which is very, very questionable as a legal solution. It doesn't exactly go according to any practice in the world. So I want to point out for myself that this craftsmanship thing is, we lose craftsmanship, and those countries that lose family agriculture and their craftsmanship, they lose their identity, it's unquestionable that such a country that plays with its craftsmanship will lose its identity. It simply shuts down the old trade, shuts down the services to the citizens, and I see no reason why they would not make such changes and additions to the law that all pensioners can at least work with a contract of work when they already have to pay taxes and two contributions, a contribution to health care and a contribution to pension. Therefore, I am giving the initiative to the Resoring Ministry, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance to take a look at the wider picture, not every segment individually and to see how I can make this whole system fairer, but when we have gone to such changes and when we are so desperately lacking in labour and certain professions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47440	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Gordan Maras will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47441	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, SDP's Club of Representatives today, since the topic is very current, asks the Croatian Parliament for a quick and pro-mpt reaction regarding the Research Commission and the work that the Commission should do around Agrokor. We see that all the forces of HDZ are trying to suspend the work of the Commission and hide from the public the information that the public is entitled to. Today, the prime minister prejudged the Croatian Parliament's decision that the commission would stop working and that the debate could be held before any body. I suggest that the debate be conducted and that the HDZ presidency lead the investigation. Maybe that's what Prime Minister Plenkovic would have wanted. But Croatian citizens want the debate to be held in Parliament, in front of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Croatian citizens do not want the fog that Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ give them. We saw six months of opposition from HDZ until we blackmailed them by not blackmailing them, and now it's clear that it was the right procedure, that we don't want to vote for constitutional judges, and now they've made a maneuver and they want to stop the work of the investigating committee through the DORH. From this point on, I ask the State's Attorney's Office, is it their problem under the law to investigate who wrote lex Agrokor, to investigate the parliamentary commission, the role of HANFA, the CNB, the AZTN, whether the problem, to investigate the 50m euros that HBOR, gave 2 months before Agrokor came into trouble and before bankruptcy, 2 months. Not a year, not two years, not five years, but two months and the moment Minister Maric said everything was fine. And now I'm going to give you another piece of information, which says Minister Maric is lying, is not telling the truth. Here the report is publicly available to all of you for the 2016 Financial Stability Council, where on page 6 of this report in the activities of HANF, it is very clear that HANFA warned Minister Marić of the Agrokor problem during 2016. The factoring problem associated with Agrokor. And Minister Maric, after that, has been telling us half a year everything is fine. This is publicly available information, look at it all, page 6 of the Financial Stability Council report, where both the Governor and HANFA and the Minister of Finance are sitting. It says exposure, a report on page 6 of HANF's activity, says the exposure of certain invoice companies to only one client exists and is a risk of spilling over to sources of funding. So Minister Maric, during 2016, informed about the problem of Agrokora, lied to us the whole time. And now you see why HDZ does not want to discuss it in front of you, but in the HDZ presidency, does not want Croatian citizens to hear anything about it, but to be closed by the eyes of the public. For what? Because the political HDZ is equal to the economic Agrokor. It's the Syntagma, it's the same thing, it's the symbol of the '90s. And all the bad stuff that happened in the privatisation, it's tied to Agrokor as well as HDZ. Do you know of any Canjugs in other parties other than HDZ? Do you know of the diameter of Valentiæ that he received in order to have the enterprise venture of Agrokor in some other parties rather than in HDZ. Do you know who Jozo Petrovic, who made it possible for Todorovic to buy Konzum? Is that the financeman of the long-standing HDZ, best friend of Tomislav Karamark, who made the government fall last year? Do you know of another minister who, from the government, from the Ministry of Finance, went from Mr. Shucker to Agrokor and then in four years, as Minister of Finance, came to the government as Director of Agrokor as Minister of Finance? There is no other party, because Agrokor is HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47442	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, we will change Croatia, we will speak to the distinguished representative Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47443	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what to say about all this, which is why I have reported to say something about the work of all parties in Croatia in the last 25 years. We see what's going on in our economy, now Agrokor, who hasn't been Agrokor since yesterday, wasn't yesterday. I feel like we're having a late wake-up call in this country. Now we wake up and see what happened. And we all live for 25 years and see the complete situation of the Croatian state and Croatian economy and everything else that passes around us. We see now, Mr. Maras said quick action, quick action. Great. I've always been there for that. I'm not against today either. And your assistant Church is in custody today, Minister of Finance, Assistant Minister of Finance of the Church is in custody today. You didn't say that. For 25 years, this country has been 27 years. And now imagine, a son was born 20 years ago and someone met his mother and tomorrow he says he's the father of it. As you can now say, the Prime Minister's cause is that he's been in this section for a year. And 20 years of silence, every normal citizen and every normal entrepreneur saw that something was wrong in this country. But no one dared to touch all the parties in that hornet and say, gentlemen, enough is enough today. Committee, I'm about to be, of course, everything needs to be investigated, but this isn't the end of the story. This may be the only government that opened up some kind of thing that went one way and let the institutions work. I don't know who did it so far. At least I didn't know it. At least I didn't hear it. It's always been a short thing done, this is a clear one farce, I would say this should be done in peace, to see who's guilty, commission, courts solve, let them close, I personally have no problem with it. I organized a conference in my county on Saturday, scientific economics and I have to tell you, there were over 150 people, there were five out there that couldn't get into the hall. I'm proud as such a parliamentary representative in Slavonia. Even the president of the World Congress of the Croats from Munich came to me, specifically came to my conference, and there were many, many prominent people who followed, 2.5 hours of it. And through these stories we say, in one Vienna there are 120 thousand Croats, 80 thousand Croats from Bosnia Posavina, who were also participants in my conference, it was a matter of cross-border cooperation between County and Orsaj and I made one plan and my one project, my one team that we supported on both sides. If there are 80,000 people only in Vienna and well-involved people who, we are talking about Bosnian Croats, we have many, many entrepreneurs and people come and want to invest. What's the problem? The problem is getting licenses, the problem is to break the administration, the problem is that people don't believe. I personally think and see that we could now go to that part, release those barriers so that our local powers are faster, more efficient and open up to this people and our special investors who have been waiting for some projects that I know I've been telling them about for 2, 3 years. So all that's going on right now is not a question today, the question before all of this is, this is just the cause of what we haven't done before. Therefore, me and myself here order that all institutions be opened up against every crime and that no party protects him. I hope this government goes that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47444	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the next one will speak for the Honorable Representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47445	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would at first support the presentation of my colleague Alexic and this fact that important laws are being put in late hours, especially one such law that has received the support of the majority in the Croatian Parliament. As for the presentation of counterpart Misic, there is a political party that has said enough, it exists, it sits and is represented by 15 MPs in this Croatian Assembly. She didn't catch us later on, just like she caught some of the others. I would remind you that more than a year ago when no one wanted to come, when the whole social and political cream was at the promotion of another film, i.e., that of another film "The Constitution of the Republic", that only me, colleague Petrov, co-worker Kovačić, were at the promotion of the film "The Boss", which every television house avoided in its programme, now had a situation to do so by these commercial TV houses, but still not public television, or HRT. So that's not true. And I don't know who you're talking about because you're defending the government and you're like an opposition club. We have a situation where the work of the investigating committee is being obstructed. At first, we had a situation that was constantly preventing the creation of this investigative commission. Today, the prime minister says that he, the investigating committee, should stop working. This shows that there is no political will for the commission to investigate all the causes, circumstances, all political institutions, all politicians, here are some of them listed by fellow Maras, there are, of course, in the SDP governments, of course, responsibility can be seen as long as the government has acted in the Republic of Croatia, so of course there are these more HDZ political officials responsible for this situation in Agrokor, but there is also a fact, there is no need to run from it, the SDPs. But apparently HDZ is intent on obstructing the work of the Investigative Commission. I made a concrete proposal yesterday to avoid at all any arguments that the Agrokor Investigation Commission should stop working. We have to come before this Croatian Parliament again because there has been a mistake, no Vice-President of the Commission has been elected. And once again, the SDP or someone else has to refer that proposal, we need to discuss it again. Why don't we throw out that point on the quality of the financial reports in Agrokor, and there's no problem anymore. You know what I just need? It takes the political will of the HDZ to get the commission going. Does HDZ have the political will to present Frano Gregoric, Prime Minister of Democratic Unity? Is there any political will for the committee to come before that, Nikica Valentic, who, we all know, is mentioned in these reports because Todorovic has heavily credited him, so after leaving the government he founded "Niva" and then Todorovic loaned him extensively? Is there any political will for Borislav Skegro to come before the committee? Is there any political will for that commission to come before Zeljko Rohatinski, former governor of the CNB? Whether there is a political will for Boris Vujcic, who was good with Prime Minister Milanovic, should not run from it.? Is there any political will for our colleague Shucker to come before that committee? Any political will to come Mato Church before that committee? Is there a political will for Slavko Linic to come before the committee who fought hard in the Open last night and stands by the government against this investigation committee? That's the only question. That's the only question to be answered by HDZ. If you want to bury this child of yours, this unwanted child called the Agrokor Investigation Commission, tell us today, don't fool us anymore, tell us, and we'll find other ways to fight for the full truth about Agrokor. If you want to bury that child, say right now, you are dragging the Croatian public for 6 months first around forming a commission. You knew this was going to happen. So don't tell me you didn't know what DORH was gonna do a few days ago. Well, when the financial reports came out, we knew what was going to happen, we all expected this to happen. And now you're saying that if we can't work now, now the Assembly Investigation Commission can't work. Oh, don't pull us by the nose, say we want to bury this unwanted child of ours and then we'll fight in other ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47446	Thank you very much. The following will speak on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Goran Dodig. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47447	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't think we understand what this is about at all. There, colleague Maras, I'll mention you, don't be afraid of you, it's not every time, you're not worth so much to mention you every time, but I'll explain what your goal is. The investigation committee, what's the point of the investigation committee? We have two problems here. We have criminal responsibility for what's going on in Agror and we have so-called. political responsibility to be defined by the Parliamentary Investigation Commission. Penalty, it is determined by people who are educated for it and by people who have standards on the basis of which they determine that responsibility. They have laws. Political responsibility shall be determined subjectively. When I heard that Franjo Gregory was mentioned here today, I do not defend Franjo Gregoric, then it was not said when Franji Gregoric was Prime Minister, it was not said that in that government there was also Zdravko Tomac, who was the Deputy Prime Minister, a member of the SDP, that the government was a collective body. Speaking of Nikica Valentiæ, there was no talk about when it was, what state policy it was. And now, for 20 and a few years when everyone has advocated this policy and privatisation and everything, I've come out with a slogan of five million satisfied but not with a hundred rich, but I don't think I'm accusing people of at that time, at the time of the war, at the time of the million refugees, making certain political decisions, this commission, it won't, collectively, define the responsibility of a criminal for which someone will go to jail or not, but it will define the responsibility that will politically bury him, without any valid criteria, but only because of party membership. The commission that will return 20 years back and question Croatian politics then and punish people for this is a committee that has no good intentions, especially since this commission is unqualified. De Gaulle said in his own time: Beware of those who know everything and nothing else. There's a lot of people in this commission who know everything and nothing else and it's a danger to this Parliament. Where's Bauk? He's out. He said five days ago we're going to vote it now but we're going to continue to fight as we have so far. Is it necessary for this House to send such messages that we will continue to argue? We have a thousand and one problem in this country that is piled up by both wrong policies and wrong moves. It's easy to talk about wrong moves later. However, as I do not wish to speak against Granja Gregoric, who at the most difficult times was Prime Minister Nikica Valentiæ, who made war and similar people, I do not want to speak now or against Slavko Linic. Even though I was attacking him while he was up-to-date. Which the SDPs were really defending. To appear now as a new force, certain actors who think they know everything, who will correct all the injustices of the past and show themselves in the light that only shines on the bright side of their lives, and does not show their ignorance, incompetence and who use the Parliament as a place to spread unrest, dissatisfaction and accuse people, is the intention of this commission. I'm not against the Committee, but the way it started talking and working now, it's the best proof that it doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47448	Thank you very much. And the next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47449	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. By listening to my colleague Maras, listening to the SDP, I must tell you that you are not in conflict with HDZ, you are in conflict with common sense. You're in conflict with the law. You're still on a syntagma that you don't have to stick to the law like a drunk float. That would be a summary of what you're telling us here today. So calling HDZ for what it insists on law enforcement is questionable to you, it's suspicious of you. So here it is, in this process HDZ is equal to law. Not the HDZ as Agrokor as you imply here during this morning's pay phone. It is our honor and a very pleasant position in which you attack us for protecting the law. And this law if you follow, and I believe that you are following these days what many professors from the Faculty of Law say in Zagreb, professors of Criminal Law, numerous judges, numerous judicial employees, many lawyers send a message and interpret that if the County Court in Zagreb confirms it and becomes a powerful solution to the investigation of the State's Attorney in accordance with the Law on Investigation Commissions. The investigation committee shall cease its work immediately. I am not surprised that it is not clear to you, colleague Maras, I am surprised that it is not clear to your committee president Orsat Milenic, who was former justice minister, who is a lawyer. Which easily says that he can be in the same procedure as the witness and judge. This majority in the Croatian Parliament will not allow the law to be broken, because the law is clear. When circumstances arise in Article 4(2) of the Law on the Investigation Commissions, the Commission shall immediately cease to work. And this trial, in accordance with the Law of Criminal Law, comes with the power of the solution to the investigation. And there's no way now that we're going to change the decision a little bit, so we're going to throw something out, then another. How does my colleague Grumoya know what he's going to write in his request to launch an investigation. How does he know the circumstances of this investigation will apply? Whether it will be extended during the procedure, etc., etc.? This is exclusively about the protection of the integrity of the criminal proceedings of fellow Maras, on the protection of the integrity of the criminal proceedings. And I can't believe it. You understand that. Only you, for other political reasons, want to perform like this in one procedure, which would make it absolutely clear to anyone who is following a lawyer who knows, who is dealing with this problem. We also have to say the next thing, that what I'm saying right now, that's what I've been saying since day one. And there's no subsequent sense here. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, when we discussed in the Croatian Parliament the decision to set up an investigative committee, I argued, and now I will repeat it, that we can establish an investigative commission, that HDZ does not, first has an investigative commission, but that if circumstances arise from Article 4. The law on investigating committees, that it will have to stop working immediately. Look at all our statements, you have Google, look, so you'll see, it's no ex-post mind. That's what I've been saying since the right day. And it's not clear to us that you at the SDP Club are not able to understand and accept such simple manipulation of the law, but blame us, but we're not dealing with it. Comrade Maras, you know very well what you brought to the government in 2012 when you did not accept the HANFA report. We'll talk about it on the investigation committee. And your role in this, and your role in the fact that your government's mandate has continued the biggest dubiosis in Agrokor. And 365 million HBOR gave while you were a member of the Supervisory Board, he gave Agrokor, 365 million kuna, the factoring law, the regressed bonds, all of these questions that will be opened. Don't worry, you'll get your turn. But at this point HDZ is protecting criminal proceedings and nothing else and nothing more and nothing less. And it won't scare us or impress us with your performance like this to defend the HDZ to anyone, individually or jointly. We're not defending anyone except the legality of a criminal procedure that we won't allow you to interfere for a political reason. And we won't let you do that and be sure of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47450	Thank you very much. My colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, what's been hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47451	Article 238 was injured on several occasions, and now I'm going to tell you first, where in an invisible, aggressive way, my colleague Bačić insulted me by saying that I had nothing to do with common sense, and then after that he evened HDZ with the law. He said HDZ equals law. Well, it's not Mr. Bacic, the HDZ law in the Republic of Croatia. And he said one more thing, that the majority will not let Miljanic and Maras do their job. It is, just listen carefully, which negotiates at the moment of aggression from the president of the HDZ Club. HDZ is a law, Croatia and its laws are nothing according to HDZ and the other we will not allow Miljanic and Maras to work. And one more thing, say Mr. Bacic, how do I not know who you are here and knew about HBOR but you know him who you are not a member of the National Committee? And on the other hand, I would remind you of 50 million euros, is more than what you said. [[Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Maras, you've run out of time to talk.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47452	Comrade Mars, please don't violate the Rules of Procedure you. ... Comrade Maras, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47453	.../Intruder Maras: Please protect Mr. Vice President, protect the MPs from this kind of harassment, that it is not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47454	I ask you nicely, give, like this, my colleague Maras, first I give you a warning, because you didn't stop speaking when I asked you to, and when you're long gone, that's one thing. Second of all, you abuse the institution's violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, you've listed a whole series of things that my colleague Bacic didn't say and you can see by the stenogram. On the other hand, I didn't react and I won't react as I didn't react to it, I didn't react to you when you said that a minister in the government was lying. Because I don't get into it, I don't get into it at all, but we're used to it here, that unfortunately, I use certain words that I don't like from all sides. Therefore, you cannot choose when you use such words without others returning them to you in some way. But, therefore, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but you did hurt her. You did hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you did it knowingly. And please don't do that anymore. You guys do it together, and you know it... Nothing I'm attacking you, I'm... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I can't sleep without it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bacic, let's stop with the violations of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47455	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to listen to your suggestion and I'm not going to add anything, namely, you've exactly interpreted the Rules of Procedure by warning my colleague Maras, so I thank you, and I don't need any further explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47456	Thank you very much. And now we give the word, the esteemed representative of HNS, to counterpart Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47457	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to say anything new that we haven't already spoken from this pay phone as well as the Agrokor Committee, the Agrokor situation. However, I think it is necessary to repeat it in such a way that the HNS's position is heard very clearly once again. HNS, we've always obeyed laws, we've been legalists, we've advocated that others follow laws, and we'll follow future laws. We're not prone to populism because it just doesn't lead anywhere and it's not good at all, and we're all here together that in recent times there's more and less of what should be and most of what's going to be populism. Once again I will repeat the HNS has no problem with the Committee, we pointed out when the initiative was launched I will not say the excess of it but to the question as much as necessary. We have also witnessed the moment in the last month of what has happened, what has happened in the end and we have accepted and supported, valued, by the initiative, by a particular club, certain clubs to elect constitutional judges. HNS wants this state rule of law. Furthermore, we believe that, and that's what we've said and I'm going to repeat again about our involvement in these affairs that I'm just about to reveal, if there were, I believe that some of it and the truth, the HNS has no problem with that. First of all, I would also point out why we consider and why we want and why we are legalists, Article 4. A law on investigative committees that speaks when the commission can begin, or when it ceases to work. And Article 17. The law, the criminal code that speaks when it is. Well, I'd say here, maybe I misjudged it, or my colleagues, the lawyers who suggested it to me, so I think theoretically, maybe even practically, it's about 10 days, the deadline, the procedure, how long it takes for this investigation to follow the law. Well, I'm calling, I don't see the President of the Committee here calling for an emergency session and 10 days of intensive work. We find it unacceptable in the HNS to have parallelism with this commission, I say we believe in institutions, the State's attorney has far more opportunities to conduct investigations and investigative actions and practically that later when a judicial epilogue is obtained, which I believe we all expect, and it is in the interest that all the circumstances of the then commission can be enlightened by a political court, because this is primarily a matter of this commission being a political commission and a matter of political responsibility. HNS doesn't run away from it. As far as the Parliament is concerned, I also feel that members of the commission and we all here should look together, we are a legislative body that makes laws, and I think it's very embarrassing, and I personally find it uncomfortable for us at the HNS to hear that certain colleagues advocate this parallelism and that we are practically enough for ourselves, a state for the state, to play the laws that this body has brought. On that basis, I don't think this is good. Once again, according to our assessment, our legal experts, you have another 10 days of the chairman's commission, call the commission, I think after that this commission has to stop working.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47458	Thank you very much. With that, we've exhausted a series of breaks. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47514	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I was forced to ask you to set a 10 minutes break at 10.45, so that the SDP Club would have the opportunity to alert in 5 minutes the free speech and the unprecedented attack of a journalist. This morning, a daily newspaper reported that HTV missed the pressure on the civil initiative and associations of defenders that a famous artist was fired on Prisavlje, due to Facebook status committed 2 years ago. It's about Angelka Jurkas, famous publicist, writer, director, musician, music critic. The event is such that we really must warn him and ask for the Parliament’s conduct, and it would be ours. Why are we looking for this before we turn the diameter, because we'd be interested in hearing and what the diameter of this thought is.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47515	Thank you very much. I just don't know why you didn't use the previous break about it? All the clubs answered, you could speak of course... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47516	I can explain, the information came in later, so here we are. We're forced to do it, and we have a business opportunity to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47517	That information existed before, therefore it is not true. And if we're going to start about the constant pauses on various issues, it doesn't lead to anything at all. So, in the morning, all the clubs, almost everyone took advantage of their chance for a break. Now you've also pointed out this problem, and everyone has heard it publicly, which is the problem. I don't see, frankly, the need to take a break from it again, so that then other clubs report back to it, etc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47518	I am merely warning that we should stick to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament where it is said that the club will set a break whenever he asks. You have a duty to respect the Rules of Procedure. You don't want to hear that the public knows what happened now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47519	No, you just said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47520	I didn't say anything here, because there's still a thousand other facts, I was just trying to explain why I'm looking for a break, and there's a lot to say in 5 minutes. But, please, if the club's looking for a break, set him a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47521	Okay, I'll approve a break now then. I will now grant you a break and please all clubs that want anything and about anything reported consider it necessary to report now. Because I won't give any more breaks, it doesn't make any sense anymore. And whoever thinks I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, he can sue the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system because one is freedom of speech and we all now have freedom of speech here, I ask you, that everything that bothers you and everything that bothers our citizens, we now say. We have a chance and you all have a chance for this and everything else is an obstruction of the work of the Parliament, the phlibustery, however you wish. But okay. Here's my break till 10.50, and then we'll do it. Is there any club need for anything to report and that some problem for citizens, the public, the economy, anything to show? No, thank you very much. It's 10.40 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.50 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47523	Croatia has once again seen freedom of speech and an unprecedented attack on a journalist. In fact, the HRT gave in to the pressure of the citizens' initiative and 10 defence associations and cancelled the cooperation of Mr. Angel Jurkas, publicist, writer, director, musician, music and film critic. Jurkas replaced the Pilar Initiative and the defense associations with a series of statuses on facebook and especially... Hurt what in May 2015, I stress, in May 2015, took them two years to find out what he wrote on his facebook in 2015 alluded to wartime invalid Djuru Glogoski. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The text and the publication reads: “Allo Bing can deliver 3 tons of Anthrax and one 50 bombs on Markov Square, activate and leave there in the church, will pay for that cute sedoxo deformity in the wheelchair, the price of the right change. ” Although it's clear here from this that it's an adjudication to Alan Ford, where there's a seedocos deformity no. 1 in a wheelchair, defenders as a gray-haired deformity see no one but Djur of Glogogsky without the author mentioning him at all. How they got to Đura Glogoško is hard to say, what a thought combination. They also resented the status in which he was bitterly moved by the move of Boris Jokic from the head of the Kuricular Reform Group, which made half of Croatia, half of Croatia angry, and said he wanted to tear down the government, resented the praise of Tito, the writing of Croatia as "Rvatska" and so on. He writes Croatia as they say, "Rvatska" as they are just saying. They can look for anything they want, 10 defense associations could ask Jurkas to bind to one of their gas bottles. Pilar's sheep can ask for it to be publicly burned as a witch, that's their right. But the fact that HRT, a public institution, gives in to such demands because of something published on the blog two years ago, forgive me, falls into an eclectic attack on freedom of speech, on freedom of the media and on journalists. Jokic said naive, stupid and foolish people who run away from technology and proved that we actually live in the republic of the past. In his speeches he stood up for the republic of the future. Maybe it bothers these defenders when a journalist defends Jokic. So there's been a defence terror over freedom of speech, the SDP is demanding an emergency session of the Media Committee to discuss this. We're also looking for HRT. We can't even look for the HRT Supervisory Board 'cause the Supervisory Board because the HDZ disbanded a great supervisory board with its majority. There's no one there to oversee HRT administration or monitor what they're doing right now. We're also looking for an HND manifest, all the newsrooms, all the media. I want to know what they think of this right terror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u47524	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the 1st point, and the 1st point of today's agenda is: - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Control and Marking of Objects of Noble Metals, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 202; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this law, the legislative proposal, be discussed by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the proposing representatives like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, Mr Mario Antonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53303	Dear Vice President, thank you very much, distinguished parliamentary representatives, good morning, everyone. Therefore, the basic reason for the adoption of the Law attesting the Convention on the Control and Marking of Articles of Precious Metals, the Law regulates, encourages and covers the international trade in articles of precious metals and consumer protection in order for the Republic of Croatia to become a party and the Convention and its provisions to become part of the internal law of the Republic of Croatia. The Convention lays down technical requirements for the independent examination of articles of precious metals and the sealing of the common control mark... the subjects tested from precious metals carried out by the authorised office of examination of the subject of the noble metals of the State of the Contracting Party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A common control mark for the marking of the prescribed degrees of purity of the item of precious metal, which is imprinted on items of precious metal, is the first and only internationally recognised mark for articles of precious metal and represents additional protection for customers in respect of the degree of purity of the subject and the quality mark. The Convention establishes the principle of volunteering, which implies that the manufacturer of the item of precious metal, who wishes to place his items on the markets of another Contracting State of the Convention, may request the impression of a common control mark in his home country. The subject-matter indicated by the common control mark, the designation of the authorised office for the examination of the subject matter of the Contracting State, the sign of the manufacturer and the legislator shall not be subject to re-examination when placing on the market of another Contracting State, but in accordance with the provisions of the Convention, the subject of precious metals must be marked by that control mark in accordance with the prescribed national legislation of the other State, provided that, with regard to the prescribed degrees of cleanliness, both in relation to the presence of nickel and more consistent and in relation to other aspects of trade of articles of precious metal. Taking into account the stated purpose and reach of the connection, it has been assessed that there is an interest in becoming a party to the Republic of Croatia as it will thus increase access to the international market of objects from precious metals marked with a common label and thus improve the position of the manufacturer of articles from precious metals, and ultimately improve and protect consumers. The accession procedure of the Republic of Croatia to the Convention began in 2011 with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the acceptance of the text of the letter of intent, which carries out the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to join the Convention on the Control and Marking of the Objects of Noble Metals. Following that basic objective, which is to achieve the adoption of this law, the promotion of free trade in objects from precious metals and the removal of potential barriers in that trade, the protection of producers of objects from precious metals, while at the same time protecting consumers, is justified by the special occasion of the items from precious metals. It is necessary to stress that the common municipal code... as prescribed by this Convention, the only internationally recognised mark for the subject of precious metals within the EU in the Member States which are also Contracting Parties to this Convention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, taking into account those reasons and the purpose of the proposal for a law on the certification of conventions on the supervision and labelling of articles of precious metals with a final proposal for law, and in particular the fact that one of the main objectives of the Convention is to encourage free trade in objects and remove possible barriers to trade, the interests of the Republic of Croatia are to become a party to the Convention as soon as possible in order to deal with the States Parties to the Convention to allow the application of the procedures and mechanisms of the envisaged conventions. The implementation of this law in the area is the central authority of the state administration responsible for the tasks of the control subjects of precious metals, which is the State Bureau of Measurement. The law is proposed to be adopted by an emergency procedure in view of the nature of the procedure for the confirmation of international contracts, which also formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an international contract, as well as the fact that changes or additions to the text of the international contract cannot be made to the rules at this stage of the procedure. This bill is proposed to discuss and accept the urgent procedure, uniting first and second readings. It is also estimated that there is an interest of the Republic of Croatia to conclude its internal legal procedure as soon as possible and become party to the Convention, in order to keep the parties to the Convention in relations with the Republic of Croatia and at this point in time the Convention has allowed the application of the procedures and mechanisms of cooperation provided for in the Convention to take effect in the relations between 19 countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53304	Thank you very much. Now we're going back to the point we discussed. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Tomislav Žagar appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53306	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to try to touch the most important topics in a brief discussion and they're related to these conventions. Of course, the MOST club supports this proposal in an emergency procedure because of '72. It's been 45 years, so it's been 45 years since the so-called. The Vienna Convention, which was then signed, 19 states signed the convention. And we think this is an important question, although perhaps the secretary of state has data, I think somewhere, let's say the value of the gold market, silver in the Republic of Croatia was 60 million kuna last year. I'm talking about investment gold, so what people buy and don't pay VAT. We've been there for the past few years since the crisis had an intense sale of gold citizens, it was bought by private firms of course by legal frameworks and mostly by that gold went abroad, it was exported abroad. What is important for and what this legal proposal claims is that two things are important, so to facilitate international trade in gold items, from silver, from precious metals. And the other thing is the protection of the manufacturer, so is the consumer. So it has this two-way role and, in that sense, the Convention has respected what is prescribed and the Republic of Croatia has respected it. Therefore, since the decision to join the Convention, since the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Convention and the Interlaboratory Studies, since September 2011, when a letter of intent for observer status was sent, 2014 in January to submit requests for accession to the Convention, in November 2014. The National Bureau of Measurement in the Republic of Croatia is the only authorised laboratory that can, which is equipped and has the necessary professional equipment and tools to carry out this professional surveillance. And that, in the end, it impressions the purity of certain precious metals and that this is true in the area of the then European community, I don't know in the world. And all states signatories to the convention. In March 2015, the minutes of the inspection team with the recommendation to invite the Republic of Croatia to full membership. In 2015, in September, a call from the depositary of the Convention to join the Convention and last year was prepared for the ratification of the Convention in the Assembly and, therefore, this year we have here, in fact, a proposal to ratify this Convention. We could say in the end now that we have to see the opportunity in everything, and so in this, we need to see us, I think that in the Republic of Croatia in the education system we have an interest called a jeweller. This should be seen in view of what is being provided today by technology development, 3D printers, so this market can be strengthened and this convention will certainly help in this direction. There's no fellow Pernars, so let's just get this argument straight with a good-looking saying, gold is money, and everything else is credit. So, although today all economists tell you that it is not quite the economically best to buy gold because we don't really know how this price of the market is going to happen, and what is certain is that both gold and precious metals in their processing can create added value, and in that sense I see also the value of the convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53307	Thank you very much. The following has appeared for discussion on behalf of the HDZ club representative Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53308	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I would like to point out what kind of Club of the HDZ Representatives will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Control and Marking of Objects of Noble Metals with the final proposal of the Law. In the opening presentation of the proposal, a clear urgency of the bill has been presented, but I think it is good to point out once again the highlighted advantages of this proposal. The Convention aimed at facilitating or promoting free trade in precious metal items while maintaining fair trade and consumer protection, justified in particular in the nature of these items, came into force on 27 June 1975 when it was signed by seven European Free Trade Zone Member States as a result of certain obstacles to the free movement of objects from precious metals and international trade. The convention has so far been signed by 19 countries while five countries including the Republic of Croatia have observer status. Interested in making the Republic of Croatia a party to the Convention exist. Since it will thus increase access to the international market of precious metals marked by a common control mark and thus improve the position of the manufacturer of objects from precious metals and ultimately improve consumer protection. The marking of objects of precious metals by common control mark of the Convention rests on the principle of volunteering. The official invitation of the government of the Republic of Croatia to join the Convention was sent in September 2015 but as a result of election processes in the country, the ratification process itself has been extended. It is, of course, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to conclude its internal legal procedure as soon as possible and become a party to the Convention in order to enable the application of the procedures and cooperation mechanisms provided for in the Convention with the relations of the Republic of Croatia and the States of the Parties to the Convention. Therefore, what is ultimately important to reiterate, i.e. to stress that the Law on Confirmation of the Convention will allow the Republic of Croatia to establish the same status on the international market as other States Parties to the Convention and thus its active participation in the development and harmonisation of international standards on the supervision and labelling of articles of precious metals. Following the above, she would reiterate that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53309	Thank you very much. We have no others to discuss, now the secretary of state at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, distinguished Mario Antonic, will give the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53310	Honorable parliamentary deputies, dear Vice President. I am pleased that the bill is supported by both the HDZ Representatives' Club and the Most Representatives' Club. I am sure that by joining this Convention we allow Croatian companies dealing with this area, therefore with precious metals, one additional possibility of placing new products and services on the market, above all, of signatories, so we have 19 countries for now. I believe that this market will continue to expand and that is another sign of us to approach those conventions and contracts that encourage Croatian entrepreneurship, the Croatian economy. There are also some estimates of how much this market is worth, first of all we know about popular gold, we also know that gold is like one of the investment forms, so as a form of investment one of the safest ports but we also need to be aware that precious metals are not only gold but there is also a lot of precious metals that are used in telecommunications, in information and we know that IT industry is one very pro-pulsive branch and I believe that this is also another small segment that can help in this direction. I thank the MPs for the review and I believe that the law will be adopted in an urgent procedure as requested and that we do not expect any further problems. Thank you very much again and pleasantly for the rest of today.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53311	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53312	Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Control and Marking of Objects of Noble Metals, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 202. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Control and Marking of Objects of Noble Metals. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 210 for, 2 abstentions have been passed by the Law confirming the Convention on the Control and Marking of Objects of Noble Metals.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53313	Let me wait a few minutes, I've been informed that the prime minister and members of the government are coming, so here they are, as they cross the square. Here's a esteemed colleague and a colleague. As our next item is as you know: - Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let me say a few words with that in mind. The report shall, of course, be submitted by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 128. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Let me have a brief introductory explanation. The Prime Minister, as you know once a year, at the beginning of the second regular session of the Parliament, in accordance with Article 1 of the Rules of Procedure, shall ordinarily present to the Parliament the annual report of the Government in which the Parliament reports about the observed phenomena, problems and state of society, as well as on the activities of the Government. The Prime Minister's speech in the report may take up to 1 hour. No replica is allowed at the address of the Prime Minister. This Regulation shall enter This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Only representatives clubs can participate in the debate. A representative of the club of representatives in the debate may speak for a maximum of 20 minutes. Following the discussion, the Prime Minister submits a final presentation that may take a maximum of 20 minutes. No replica is allowed in the debate. I now ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, to file a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53314	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs, distinguished representatives in the Croatian Parliament. One year after I asked you for trust in the composition and programme of the Government, today I will inform the Croatian Parliament and the public about the state of the country, the problems our society faces and the activities that the Government is taking to make Croatia live and operate better. I want to give a review of the government's work, explain the decisions we have made and when they were not easy and present the direction Croatia enters 2018. This year, Croatia has been one of the most challenging since the end of the Homeland War, on an economic, political and social basis. Natural disasters, fires and floods, crisis in the Agrokor concert, arbitration procedures concerning INA, configuring parliamentary majority, work to reduce ideological divisions, a demanding international environment. In such a context and such a year, the government has fulfilled a significant part of the programme, and we continue with this work. I will present government activities in five thematic areas. First, putting man at the heart of politics, the second strengthening of the Croatian economy, the third positive social change that we are trying to build, the fourth national security, the fifth foreign and European policies. Today, after achieving the strategic national objectives, the focus of our policy must be people. A key element of every country. At the heart of every government move, therefore the Croatian man, with his concerns, hopes and expectations. From Ilock to Savudrija, from St. Martin to Mura, to Prevlaka, and also Croatians living outside Croatia, with their inalienable dignity, rights and responsibilities, regardless of sex, age, education, employment, sexual orientation and religion or ethicality. Our primary goal is to ensure a better quality of life, a higher standard of living, and the better opportunities for personal development, and we are committed to doing so every day. Our economy depends on people. It depends on people how we manage the country and people, the Croatian future depends on them. With that in mind, it is clear that finding a solution to the demographic challenges facing Croatia but also many other European countries is a key task of the government. This is exactly what makes Croatia the cornerstone of Croatia's overall development. Croatia has been demographically old for years and today we are one of the oldest European nations. Almost every five Croats are over 65 years old. In just one decade, since 2001-2011. Croatia has lost as much as 3.4% of its population, i.e. over 152000 people. It is almost one Split, and such a trend continued. Many parts of Croatia remain without people, the average number of children in the family is low, lower and than the number of children parents would like to have. More significant emigration from Croatia is also present in the past 4 years. Such demographic trends have negative effects on various areas of society, especially the economic, health and pension system. As a result, we have been taking this issue seriously, responsibly and strategically since the first term of office. There is no dilemma for us that growth in the economy and balanced regional development is the best demographic policy. Additional well-designed targeted measures, active population policies can make a difference. The Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy reflects not only the government's political priorities but also enables quality design and implementation of progressive policies. In the first year of office, we have significantly increased financial support for parents. After 9 years of stagnation since 2008, the unemployment benefits were increased by 665 kuna, from 1 663 to 2 328, and the employed parents during the other 6 months from 1311 kuna from 2 660 to 3 991. We decided to subsidize 50% of the population loans to young people for the first 4 years, with an extension of another 2 years for each newborn or adopted child, thus facilitating the acquisition of first real estate, housing care and family establishment. 2 399 requests have been received so far that Vice-President Stromar for subsidisation has informed us and we will find the means for all to be approved. In the reform of the tax system, with a general reduction in tax burden, we increased the personal deduction for children with a marked rate of deduction for each of the following children. So the parents of the two children had previously been exempt from tax income up to 5,680 kuna net, and we raised that threshold to 8,000 kunas net. We also enabled the launch of a subsidy programme for the construction of new and adaptation of existing kindergartens. Since the harmonisation of measures of family, innovative, residential and migration policies exceeds the work of one ministry, we have set up a Council for Demographic Revitalisation which is currently preparing a new set of demographic measures that will be introduced next year, which will further improve the position of the family. For demographic restoration, the first task is to stop the process of youth leaving. By improving living conditions and by ensuring that excellence and pawnage are paid and rewarded. It is a demanding job that many countries face, but on it we will endure all the means available to start their families here, solve the housing issue, and live decently from their work. People have always been the most precious Croatian potential to invest in. Sustainable development of Croatia in the second decade of the 21st century is only possible through the promotion of innovation and creativity. That is why modernising education is the strategic issue of the Croatian future that requires a wider social agreement that we are building on. So we continued with educational reform including curricula as one of the basics of the modernization of the system. The government's goal is to launch pilot projects after completing the public debate and reviewing the curricula next school year to test the new educational programme. We try to respect and reconcile different views which is not always simple and takes time but is a prerequisite for the long-term success of the reform because it refers to the children of the parents of different worldview and beliefs. The new programme should connect the education system with the real needs of the labour market. Clearly rooted identity issues, value system, Croatian history, Croatian language and Croatian culture as well as wide, general knowledge and openness to the world. The world of intensive development, computer technology requires answers that will allow students to develop digital literacy. The introduction of information as a mandatory subject will ensure that students are taught in accordance with the practice of the most developed education systems with special commitment to the educational and breeding process that builds up the whole person. In order to ensure consistency on one of the key issues of Croatian society, we will restructure a special expert commission for the implementation of the strategy of science, education and technology. In addition to the plural involvement of experts, the ministries and the parliament that adopted the strategy, I will provide much more guidance on the content of the reform than on the bodies that should implement the reform. In doing so, one of the objectives is certainly an appropriate evaluation of the role that teachers, teachers and teachers play in maintaining the quality of the education system. The politics in which man is at the heart of us are also shown by the resuscitation of the Christian principle of solidarity, the care of the most vulnerable and marginalised social groups. We are building a whole and fair and transparent system of social care for people in need. Poor, sick, disabled, and those who need organised public care for age, addiction, or other reasons. Our solidarity as a society as a whole is reflected in the fact that for 3% of the poorest households we allocate 31% of the total funding in the welfare system. I try to ensure a decent life for older citizens after the end of the working life. During this year, more than 1.2 million people received 2.75% higher pensions in line with our current economic opportunities. This is not enough but the largest harmonisation of pensions after 9 years, since 2008 and threefold higher compared to the increase in 2016, the pension system needs to be adjusted to demographic and economic developments and to adjust the level of pensions. We have brought a new, fairer and more balanced executive law, which prohibits the implementation of the only real estate and prevents the unacceptable possibility that existed earlier, that the debtor's home be completed for the principal less than 20,000 kn. An increased amount that is excluded from the performance to the pay of the performer, i.e. 2/3 of the average salary. Recognizing the problem of domestic violence that we must face as a society, we have passed a more modern law that will in one place be worth the rights of victims of domestic violence, in accordance with international standards. We are fully committed to achieving equality between women and men and suppressing discrimination against women on the labour market, especially pregnant women and mothers. We're taking care of the position of the workers. Everyone must by his work be able to ensure a decent life for his family. As a result, the good news is that in a year, the average monthly net salary increased 5.1% and in the first 7 months, is 5951 kn. We've raised the minimum wage by 5%. Ladies and gentlemen, real shifts in living standards and sustainable economic growth can only be achieved by creating a positive business environment. Designing and implementing measures aimed at economic development and increasing competitiveness in line with the national reform programme is therefore a priority of the government's work. Surely the biggest reform process of the Croatian economy, which we could hardly imagine 12 months ago, when I asked you here for trust to build up the government, is crisis management in the Agrokor concert. It's worth reminding of the situation from only half a year ago. Several downgradings of the company's credit rating, warning of accounting irregularities, a drop in the cost of Agrokor's companies' shares, the launch of the first commission based on debtors, blocked accounts of Agrokor's companies, a halt in the supply of goods, emptying the shelves of the largest trade chain, indifference, audited Agrokor's financial reports showed the weight of the problems that existed in the company for years. All this in a company that employs more than 58,000 people, of which almost 30,000 in Croatia. Of which incomes are made by more than one citizen, which has a systemic impact on the entire Croatian economy. Uncontrollable bankruptcy and the collapse of Agrokor, which was then a real possibility, would have unsightly consequences on our industry, agriculture, tourism, budget, but above all, on tens of thousands of persons businessly related to Agrokor. Only consum suppliers employ nearly 150,000 people. Today it is clear to everyone that such a scenario was not to be allowed by the Government. We had the responsibility to find the right solution to prevent the escalation of the problem that has been created for years. There were four options. First, do nothing, watch as the domino collapses the Croatian economy from the front row. The second scenario would be to nationalise the company, which as a democratic EU member state based on the rule of law we could not consider. Thirdly, we could find funds that would give a certain liquidity to the company, thus trying to bridge the crisis in the short term, but that would not be a legal and sustainable solution. So based on the comparative analysis, we decided on 4 options. Law on the procedure of extraordinary management in trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. It complements the legal void that existed. We have shown that the state knows and can react quickly, efficiently and responsibly to demanding crisis situations. As a fundamental goal, our government has set stability, development, solidarity, but also a policy of restoring trust in the institution. And that also applies to the crisis with Agrokora. We acted coherently and legally, in accordance with our constitutional powers. We have proposed a legal solution that has prevented tsunamis on the entire Croatian economy. I would like to highlight the importance that all institutions, in accordance with the division of the government, shed light on all the circumstances of this case. It is known what is the government's task, as executive authorities, of the Croatian Parliament as legislative authorities, of the police, of the DORH and ultimately of the judiciary as judicial authorities. We also supported the talks on Agrokor in the Croatian Parliament. Although the legal framework makes it very clear that the investigative committee will stop working, if the competent judicial authorities initiate proceedings on matters to be addressed, we are open to discussion, that this topic is discussed in the Croatian Parliament, if not in this current commission, by law enforcement, then at committees or at plenary session. From the crisis of clean hands, we must come out together with learned lessons, this is an opportunity to transform business of economic operators on the Croatian market, but also of the entire Croatian society. The government will continue to work hard to preserve the stability of the economy and create conditions for its further growth. I believe that the overall resolution of the Agrokora situation will also be a final account with a long-standing unfair economic model. The esteemed representatives and representatives of the wind in the back for the transformation of the economy give us positive economic indicators. The Croatian industry continued with stable production growth, 2.6% in the first 8 months. Investments increased 4.2% in the first half of the year and we expect further acceleration. In the first half of the year, Croatian goods exports increased by 14.5% compared to the same period last year. GDP grew by 2.9% in the first half of the year by 2.7%. The good news and growth of retail trade has increased at an average rate of 5.2% in the first 8 months of this year. We have a record low unemployment rate of 10.8%. At the same time we also record employment growth in the second quarter of 2017 there are 26 thousand employees more than in 2016, i.e. almost 50,000 more than in 2015. Therefore, employment of 61.4% in the population from the 20th to 64th years is still below the European average but is the largest in Croatia over the past 6 years. The result is also an active employment policy measure that we are carrying out. In order to fully exploit the potential of domestic labour, we have secured over 2 billion kuna for employment. We specifically directed the measures towards education and training of the unemployed. And this year alone, we're going to cover about 50,000 people. We encourage individual entrepreneurship and encourage self-employment because this measure has proved to be one of the most successful. We have launched a 400 million kuna program for the employment of 3,000 women primarily in rural areas that will help 12 thousand old households. We are aware of the importance of the private sector as a medium-sized economy operator and we have therefore introduced a mandatory application of the test to small and medium-sized enterprises in the regulation to prevent new administrative burdens and unwarranted costs. We've cut some of the administrative fees by 30% and we'll cancel the part. We encourage crafts and vocational education, and have awarded over 1500 scholarships for students in deficit crafts interests worth nearly 14 million kunas. It's the highest number of such scholarships in one school year so far. For small and medium-sized entrepreneurs this year we have granted support of a billion-and-a-half kuna which is 3.5 times more than a year ago and we expect it to open or preserve more than 2,000 jobs. Only for the current academic year have we provided 4600 scholarships for the most vulnerable students and students 3400 scholarships for students of natural, biotechnical and technical sciences and by 2023 we plan to share 17 thousand STEM scholarships totalling more than 180 million kuna. We have started preparing the process of introducing the euro as an official currency in Croatia. All new EU members including Croatia have committed themselves to accepting the euro when conditions are met. Before becoming a member of the monetary union of the state, four criteria should be met with legal convergence: price stability, sustainability of public finances covering two criteria (a budget deficit and public debt), exchange rate stability and convergence of long-term interest rates. The structural reforms we implement contribute to meeting these conditions that we must implement for our own sake. Currently, Croatia meets almost all criteria except for one and, in terms of the general government and GDP debt ratio, a positive trend in dynamics is because economic recovery and the stability of public finances affect its reduction. For Croatia, therefore, meeting the criteria is an effective and realistic goal. A number of analyses and comparative experiences show that citizens and businesses can expect positive effects from the introduction of the euro. The main benefit would be to remove the currency risk to which all euro-related loans are exposed, euro-related enterprises, and revenues will no longer be vulnerable to exchange-depreciation. Secondly, the benefit should also come from the reduction of interest rates. The government will therefore, together with the CNB at the end of October, present a draft strategy for the introduction of the euro as an official currency in Croatia, starting a public debate on this process. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the reforms implemented that had an extremely broad impact on Croatian people was tax reform. We cut taxes, the tax system today is simpler and fairer than it was a year ago. The 16-law package at the very beginning of the mandate reduced the total tax burden of income by about 1.5 billion kuna. An additional 560,000 citizens have been exempt from paying income taxes, thus increasing the total number of non-income taxpayers to 1.5 million. The profit tax rate has been reduced from 20% to 18% and for small farmers, craftsmen and small entrepreneurs to 12%. With the Law on Local Taxes, we have left enough time to make a wider analysis of the system, conduct simulations and analyses, and propose the best solution. In the parliamentary debate, we also addressed the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, as it will strengthen the fiscal capacity of local self-government and make income tax more fair. We have proven our responsibility in managing public finances. In a very short time, with the discipline of all members of the general state, we have stopped long-term negative trends such as the growth of deficits. We managed to reduce the deficit for 2016 to 0.8% and for the first time in many years there was a reduction in external debt. In the first term of this year, fiscal results are even better than expected. For the first time in recent history, a surplus of the general government budget has been recorded. And the trend of public debt cuts continues. Thanks to the measures implemented, Croatia came out of the excessive budget deficit procedure in June, but we are still aware that this does not mean that the process of financial consolidation is over. Until now, all 3 leading global rating agencies, which have improved the outlook for Croatian credit rating, and... has raised the outlook from stable to positive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our goal is to raise the Croatian credit rating to investment level as soon as possible, which is why we are unreservedly continuing structural reforms. The successful management of public finances, contributions and European funds. In the last 3 years, Croatia has agreed 2.8 billion euros, of which more than half during the first 8 months of this year. Furthermore, we have announced as much as 2.2 billion euros worth of tendering, which is 10.7 billion euros available to us in the multi-annual financial framework by 2020. These figures show an acceleration of the use of European funds, and we expect to contract almost significant projects in the transport, energy efficiency, natural heritage and water utility sectors. The government is seeking to revitalise state property that is of exceptional value. According to some estimates, its total value is greater than the total debt of the state. However, the value depends on whether the asset is managed. And unfortunately, it hasn't been effective enough in the last 25 years. We have therefore established the Ministry of State Property, whose mission is systematic and rational management and supervision of state property on behalf of and on behalf of Croatian citizens. We want to show that companies countries can be successful if they are responsible for leadership. And inactive state property, we put into function economic growth. We've established a central state office for the development of digital society. To make a step towards the digital economy, digitisation can relieve the state administration and increase efficiency. For example, the introduction of e-katstra services simplifies the electronic availability of data and contributes to the acceleration of the registration of real estate registrations. We are spreading a range of services in the system of e-citizens, which significantly saves time and money. We are aware that the development of infrastructure and services is widely-explained Internet access one of the preconditions for the development of a modern economy and we will increase its availability. I would like to note that recently at the EU summit dedicated to the digital economy in society, the agendas, we could notice that the steps made by Croatia, especially in health care or e-receptions, are among the more innovative among EU members. And therefore we are in this area even better than it seems. The energy sector should be one of the most important generators for the development of the Croatian economy. We must use the favourable geostrategic position of Croatia to ensure the supply of the Croatian market. One of the key projects is the construction of a LNG terminal in Krk, whose construction will take a significant place on the map of Europe as a new energy centre. And for the realisation of this project, we have provided significant European resources. One of the more complex exports to the energy sector, which found this government, is the issue of our oil company INA. We made a strategic, political decision on the return of INA owned by the state, which we also met the Hungarian authorities. We set up a consultation on negotiations with MOL, which discussed funding models, and a selection process was launched by two competent ministries, environmental protection and energy protection and the Ministry of Finance. The process is complex and we approach it in the way it is demanding, which is cautious and gradual, but with a clear goal, INA in the service of the development of the Croatian economy. It is unquestionable that MOL and I have a disagreement, but there is a clear interest that INA as a national and strategic important oil companies is working well. We want it to contain all features of vertically integrated companies, and to invest in research production and processing. There is a parallel arbitration procedure, which is the international centre, to resolve investment disputes in Washington, which was launched by MOL in 2013. All competent authorities are almost daily engaged in the case. The second arbitration procedure launched by Croatia ended in a river, was delivered on 24.12. and which is not favourable for us. The acquis maintains the status quo of management of the INA and we, as a country dedicated to the rule of law, respect it, yet using the opportunities at our disposal we have requested its annulment. One of the goals of the government is to continue investment in Croatia's transport integration. From air to road, river, port and rail traffic. With that goal in the first year, we started but ended a number of investments. We have ensured continued funding for the second phase of the construction of Dubrovnik airport, with the European co-financing of 1.2 billion kuna. We opened a new modern passenger terminal in Zagreb, and then I thanked the work of previous governments. The European co-financing of the reconstruction and construction of the railway railway Križevci-Koprivnica, a state border of 241m euros, has been ensured. We have also made a major step in realising the strategic project to connect the south of Croatia with the rest of the country, in building the Peljega Bridge. The European Commission co-finances 357m euros in construction and will be one of the most visible projects showing the concrete benefit of Croatia's EU membership. The procurement process is under way and three tenders received are being analysed. The Peljeski bridge will connect two parts of our country and allow for a better connection and the technical gauges of the bridge were agreed with BiH as early as 2006 where Croatia met the demands of our neighbouring country and thus opened the possibility of this project being realised. I repeat once again on the edge of the bridge are built exclusively on the territory of Croatia, and the bridge will be located above the sea space belonging to Croatia. so that it cannot accept certain requirements that now want to condition the construction of a bridge with unrelated political issues that is a matter of demarcation at sea and we will solve them, but the issue of building a bridge with demarcation has nothing to do with it. We are systematically introducing order into agriculture. A sector with great development possibilities. There are over a billion kuna worth of projects in realisation. We simplified the procedures for European competitions and shortened the deadlines for processing. We care about the quality of food that is eaten in Croatia. We created the possibility for public authorities to get food that travels from field to table for up to 48 hours. We spent increased food surveillance sold in chains and made it public. By changing the laws of the OPGs, we will expand their activities, put in place abandoned land and protect domestic producers from unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. Today, we sent a second reading of the proposed laws to the Assembly. We've also secured 150 million kuna for the recovery of agricultural damage after the fires, fighting and floods. The government takes care of environmental protection and builds a modern waste management system. We have accelerated our activities to address the problem of air pollution in Slavonski Brod as soon as possible. We've created preconditions to facilitate the refinery's gasification of the ship, which will improve the air protection state. We have launched a program of energy reconstruction of buildings including kindergartens, schools and dormitories. It is expected that only by the beginning of 2019, investments in the construction sector will exceed 1.7 billion kuna in energy recovery, and the restoration of buildings with minimal insulation can save up to 5 billion kuna. We have built a strategy for the spatial development of Croatia, a fundamental state document for the direction of development in space. This tourist season is the best in Croatian history, including pre-war years. This year we will reach a figure of as much as 100 million overnights, 17 million arrivals, and we expect revenue of almost 11 billion euros, which is as much as 700 to 800 million euros more than last year. By 2020, we aim to achieve 14 to 15 billion euros in revenue this year, we have achieved over 800m euros in investment in tourism, and next year we plan to reach almost a billion euros mainly through new and newly renovated hotels. Respected MPs and MPs, while raising the quality of life of citizens, is the government's continuing task of raising general social standards and transforming the polarised social climate. The Croatian Society of the 21st century must enable constructive dialogue between different actors and groups. We want to develop a toleranceal, plural and democratic society by opposing discrimination and hate speech that we often witness too often, on a global scale, and in Croatia as well, growing surface and sensationalism in public life. Such trends are also evident in strengthening political forces that offer simple, almost instant solutions to complex problems. In the first year of office, our government has shown a consistent fight against demagogy and populism, arguments and expertise. One of the topics where they try to impose a quick and simple but proven ineffective solution is the issue of facing the past. In Croatia, ideological and historical topics are often referred to as scarred and uncritical. We've chosen for the second time, and we're very clear about it. We give pitet to numerous Croatian families who have been victims of tragic human rights abuses and violations by non-democratic systems. We have established a Council to deal with the consequences of the rule of non-democratic regimes that have two tasks. First, to develop comprehensive measures that will contribute to the face-to-face with the past, such as scientific research and the provision of access to public data, and to fostering memory culture and others, to make recommendations on the permission to use non-democratic symbols. Such a systematic approach is more demanding and we are the first government to accept it because we believe it is possible to make real moves in the face of our society with the consequences of a non-democratic government. Very openly, in the early 1990s, Croatia was a victim of aggression and had other priorities. Other Middle Eastern European countries then addressed these issues and we did not and therefore they are on the agenda of Croatian societies at this time. We are building partnerships with civil society, religious communities and the academic community because they can contribute to creating a better society with their different perspectives. We introduce social dialogue with respect and respect for employers and trade unions. After increasing salaries to state and public officials in September, we started a new cycle of talks on collective agreements. I am particularly pleased that we enjoy the support of all 8 representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament. In our dialogue with them, we have built operational programmes for national minorities since 2017-2020, a mechanism to support their public action and protect their rights. For the sake of quality communication of different levels of government, we have established a practice of regular government meetings with mayors, representatives of the Association of Cities and Association of municipalities. And after local elections where citizens have chosen new 4-year-old representatives, we continue co-operation and co-ordination. In the first year of my term, I have visited our homeland several times to get acquainted with key issues, priorities and plans at the county level. We held meetings of the Government in Vukovar, Sisak and Knin, and in early December we will also be in Osijek. To encourage debates of local and regional importance and to confirm commitment to even development. We designed and implemented the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. After the Homeland War, the country faces particularly pronounced challenges of unemployment, deindustry and negative demographic trends. So by 2020, we are planning as much as 2.5 billion euros in financial injections for the development of agriculture, rural regional development, transport, energy and the economy. We have launched legislative reforms and in order to strengthen the assisted areas and encourage the development of Croatian islands, and have adopted the Strategy for Regional Development. The inclusion of Croats living outside Croatia in the country's social and political life is one of our strategic goals. We have begun to facilitate the process of obtaining citizenship for members of the Croatian people, their descendants and spouses. We promote Croatian identity, culture and language. The Croats outside Croatia will try to get even more involved in the country's social life, which is why we will analyse the possibility of making elections easier. Ladies and gentlemen, in Croatia, there is a large number of different cultural institutions whose role is important, not only to preserve our identity and heritage but also to today be part of a growing economic branch, or creative industry, whose development we systematically encourage. Already in the first year of the term of office, funding for cultural programmes and projects increased by 3.2% and even 20%, respectively, if out-of- budget users and European funds were added. Attracting audiences and participating in culture as a priority objective of cultural policy, we seek to ensure and finance specific projects. In order to strengthen the crisis of literary and publishing activity, we financed additional measures, including the opening of new bookstores across the country. The rule of law is based on an independent, impartial and effective judiciary. We therefore reform the executive process, introduce information technologies, speed up the procedure for the appointment of judicial officials and improve procedural and material legislation. We will simplify and speed up the procedure for the appointment of judicial officials, carry out organisational changes involving mergers of criminal and municipal courts, and complete the long-awaited project of the integration of land books and catastras. We are creating a professional, modern and rational public administration that is an integral part of an effective business environment. We have therefore also adopted an Action Plan for the implementation of the Public Administration Development Strategy for the period 2017 to 2020, which digitises the processes and establishes a unique way of communicating citizens with state administration bodies. We want a predictable, legal, tax framework, transparent public procurement, a continuation of the fight against corruption. The main objective of the health system is complete health security within a modern and financially sustainable system, which is a demanding task. We want to improve the quality of health services by bringing about a national hospital development plan that provides for functional integration and better management of non-health services. Stopping unnecessary multiplication of procedures at small geographical distances. We are preparing a pooled supply of medicines and consumables as measures for staying between other and young doctors in Croatia and easier to get specialization. We're on our way to modernising 29 hospitals, hospital equipment and improving working conditions. We provided funds for the construction of a new hospital in Rijeka and started preparing for the construction of a new, unique children's hospital in Zagreb. Despite all this, we need to do even more to ensure that health services are available and more rationally using hospital resources. Due to the new security challenges, we have devoted ourselves to increasing the coordination and proactiveness of the Croatian state institutions in the area of national security protection. After 15 years, we adopted a new National Security Strategy. A strategic document that began the process of developing the Homeland Security System, we increased the defence budget after 6 years of decline, a strong tradition of the defence army, the winning one, obliging us to a thorough and thoughtful modernisation. This represents a certain cost but modern threats require greater investment in security without which we have no economic growth. Modernising our forces is also increasing our credibility as allies in NATO and partners in the EU and participants in a number of UN missions. Because of this, we have decided to obtain multi-purpose fighter aircraft to protect airspace, which means increased defence capacity, but also creating a special partnership, we will make the choice decision in the coming months. This year we returned the Armed Forces unit to Sinj and in 20 days it is expected that members of the Croatian army will arrive in the heroic city of Vukovar. Next year we will return troops of Croatian troops to Ploče, as well as Puma in Varazdin. The Croatian defence industry is a generator for the development and promotion of top products. In this regard, I am very pleased that the 7th Croatian Contingent was sent to NATO for the first time by a mission of support in Afghanistan, fully equipped with Croatian weapons and equipment. We're increasing the standard of living, working and training of soldiers, officers and officers of the Armed Forces. He would especially like to thank the Armed Forces for their contribution during recent fires and floods, as they managed to protect human lives and minimise material damage along with firefighters and other parts of the system. With unusual intensity and scope, Croatia hit natural disasters in 2017. In more than 6,000 fires, an area of about 1,000 square kilometers was burned, which is equal to the total surface area of Hvar, Brac and Korčula and almost 3 times the annual average, and in September, Zadar County hit the worst floods ever recorded in the area. However, the consequences for human lives, public infrastructure and facilities were not great, especially compared to the fires in other European countries and you saw today this disaster in Portugal or the examples of terrible victims in the United States. But the fire season has shown that there is a space for improving mutual coordination in crisis situations, especially in crisis communication. In gratitude, but also in need, we have allocated 7.6 million kuna to firemen and certain funds to pilots and mechanics of our canadians who have completed countless hours of flights in this fire season. What I'm saying is that because of the fire, the police have detained more people and filed criminal charges against them. It is very important that the perpetrators of these crimes are investigated to the end and thus determine the character of such large numbers of fires in 2017. In addition to caring for the position of active Croatian soldiers, we want to ensure dignity for Croatian defenders and to cherish the memory of their sacrifice and victory in the Homeland War. The most responsible for defending the homeland without which we could not freely discuss here today how to manage the country, we are obliged to provide adequate care. That is why, as promised in the campaign, we have developed a new comprehensive law. In one place, the rights of defenders and victims of war are united, thus ensuring their legal and existential security. Since September, 37,000 Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War receive 10% higher pensions. We continuously provide Croatian defenders and care for their health and that is the goal of this unique law. Dear MPs and MPs, an important part of the Homeland Security system is also the Croatian police we modernise and professionalise. We simplify administrative affairs like the issue of documents. The driver's license can now be requested by the E-Citizen system, without arriving at the police station counters. We appointed the leaders of individual MIPs based on the expertise of selected personnel. Much of the MUP's work concerns meeting the criteria for entry into the Schengen area, a single European borderless area, which is a strategic and national objective. We want to achieve technical readiness to enter a single European space during 2018 to enter Schengen in the current European Commission's mandate during 2019. Since June, we have been connected to the Schengen Information System through which data is automatically obtained on each person, vehicle or ID. I would also like to mention the agreement with Slovenian Prime Minister Cerar on 29 April this year at a joint meeting with Commission President Juncker when we agreed to move from systems to targeted controls following the revised Schengen law. This agreement has enabled a significantly greater flow of people, tourists in Croatia, because if rigid systemic control was retained, I fear that at the peak of the tourist season miles of waiting to leave Slovenia and entering Croatia, they would be about from Bregana to Ljubljana. When it comes to the external-political dimension of our activities in European affairs, I want to single out a few highlights. First, to remind us that in this 2017 together and here in the Croatian Parliament we marked the 25th anniversary of the country's international recognition and our membership in the UN. I also mentioned this in a speech to the UN General Assembly a few weeks ago where we remembered the speech of the first President Tudjman then in New York and the difficult circumstances of the imposed war and aggression on Croatia. We are proud of the fact that today we are actively contributing to international security because only twenty years ago we were on the side of those who are the recipient of security and today we are among active donors and those who share their experiences, which unfortunately are unique on the European continent. When it comes to European affairs, I would like to say that we are part of the most developed community of EU countries, whose opportunities we are trying to make the most of. We are involved in creating European policies and discussing Europe's future. At a time when the dominant is the topic of the exit of the united kingdom from the EU and which via facts imposes topics that are not affirmative. Therefore, together with other partners, we seek to inhale ambition, a new elan and draw the maximum for citizens of all Member States on the basis of existing contracts, policies and budgets from the European project. Therefore, for more levels of involvement in European affairs, for a year and a regular reporting of the Croatian Parliament, after a session of the European Council. All in order for all of us to be much more sensitive to these topics together, when the Croatian EU presidency comes in the first half of 2020. We remain one of the main advocates of the continuation of the enlargement policy, in particular to the countries of Southeast Europe, and we want to be part of those Member States who want to strengthen co-operation as part of a tight round of the European integration process. Croatia is paying great attention to cooperation with the neighbouring BIH with which we are bound by special connections. The European future of the BIH is a political priority for us, as co-signator of the Dayton Agreement, is extremely important for us, ensuring equal rights for the three constituent peoples of the Croats, Serbs and Bosniaks, which must also be guaranteed in the electoral legislation. After 7 years, we organised a successful joint session of the government and the Council of Ministers of BiH in July in Sarajevo. With relations with Serbia, we have open issues from the time of independence, and aggression against Croatia, which includes the issue of missing, cultural goods, but also the regional jurisdiction of the Serbian law on war crimes. We don't accept the falsification of historical truth. As I said on the day of the victory in Knin, Croatia is failing the Homeland War, just as Croatian defenders did not give in Croatia in the '90s. With regard to relations with Slovenia, we have also faced a question that our country has been following since independence, not resolved by the border, Croatia's decision of the arbitration court is not binding and we will not apply it. There are no dilemmas. In July 2015, the Parliament was decoded. That decision was made by consensus. We, in accordance with the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Contracts, have launched a procedure for the termination of the arbitration agreement and have withdrawn from the process. We did so because it revealed the illegal action of the other side. I do not believe that any other country in the world would allow its state borders to be decided in procedures in which no minimum of independence and impartiality is guaranteed. The same cannot be expected of Croatia. But Croatia wants dialogue with Slovenia, wants to talk and wants dialogue, wants to talk and wants to resolve open issues, and once again I call on Slovenia to dialogue and continue on this letter of the diameter of Cerara yesterday, I repeat that on 12 July in Ljubljana, I said that we are open to resolving all open issues by including the border of bilateral talks between the two countries. In international relations, Croatia advocates respect for the rule of law, our diplomatic and consular representations are daily in a position to provide various forms of assistance to our citizens. A new embassy in Kuwait opened for a larger engagement in the Middle East. And in the opening procedure are the embassy in Korea, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. General consulates with special interests in BIH, Livn and Knights, we have returned the positive practice of developed diplomacy and organized a traditional annual gathering of ambassadors and general consuls. And we'll do it every time after the first cabinet session in late August after the summer break. Ladies and gentlemen, in one of the most challenging years since the end of the Homeland War, we have been trying to regain our trust in institutions, politics, government, the Croatian Parliament. We act responsibly and legally, the approach we have since the first day, puts at the heart of politics, every Croatian citizen. Which is where we take special care of vulnerable social groups. I am convinced that many of our moves have positively affected the Croatian economy and society, and I will stress in this summary, just some of the most important. First, the collapse of Agrokor, whose causes were not involved, was prevented, but whose backdrops would be disastrous for its workers, suppliers, and the entire economic and financial system. Our measures encourage economic growth, increased employment, exports and industrial production, and the effects of tax reform are positive for both citizens and entrepreneurs. We have systematically accessed the topics of demographic renewal, the face of the past, educated reforms, the digitisation of Croatian defenders. We developed a new concept of national security and homeland security, and started modernising the armed forces. We are working intensively on Croatia's entry into Schengen and taking over the euro as an official currency. In the European context, Croatia is as recognizable as that member who wants to be part of the first round of European integration, while protecting the national interests and position of our citizens in the EU. All this shows that we are ready to make decisive moves, that the challenges facing modern society cannot be solved overnight, and not in any first year of office is already part of the process and work through the four-year framework. I believe that in the first year, the government has achieved a large part of its programme that improves the lives of our citizens and society as a whole, we will continue through the Government programme and through the National Reform Programme and through the creation of a tolerant, inclusive climate in Croatian society. And I would therefore like to underline that those 4 basic points that I said here last year are political stability in the country, economic growth and development, legal certainty and social cohesion and solidarity will continue to be the central points of government work and the framework for taking all the measures and legal proposals that we will present here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53315	I thank the Prime Minister and open the debate. First on behalf of the Club of Representatives We will change Croatia, the time will be shared by distinguished MPs Lovrinović and Škibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to welcome Prime Minister Plenkovic with his associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the respected citizens who are following us. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the first year of this government will be remembered for its own work. Ministers' affairs where the prime minister lost half a year on these topics and in the rest of the time managed to impose a series of imposes on our citizens' backs through bad laws, and as a cream on the cake, this spectacular show for the public called Agrokor or the rescue of Agrokor and if they really wanted to save him and wanted to, then it would be done peacefully, professionally, behind the cameras, but effectively. Let me say something about banks. Last year, banks made more than 5 billion kunas of net profit, which is the most since the 2008 crisis, and it is time for them to start returning it to the Croatian economy through more favourable loans for entrepreneurs. When the government and the CNB will make sure to limit the number of high interest fees that banks account for to citizens and entrepreneurs, which is why we have 330 thousand citizens in the blockade, several tens of thousands of entrepreneurs and OPGs who cannot repay their debts. The rest of the citizens and entrepreneurs moan under the pressure of interest and bank charges. The government and the CNB must protect citizens and entrepreneurs from the will of banks. When it comes to the executive law, it all shows that the existing executive law is bad and needs to be changed urgently. It creates and does not solve problems that are seen from the fact that the number of blocked, debt exports is increasing even more rather than reducing. So this is bad law. This situation is unsustainable and it is one of the biggest problems of Croatian society. When it comes to the State's Attorney's Office, when I evaluate the work of the State's Attorney's Office, especially now in the case of Agrokor, I must warn of the anomaly that has re-emerged. Does the government only work with these arrests for mass, or does it want to punish those responsible? That's the real question. How come the media knows the place and time of arrest again before the police and investigators come? The real question is also why did no one, along with the detainees of the former leaders of Agrokor, call on the former high-ranking employee of Agrokor and today's finance minister? I also expect the government and the prime minister to explain how Ministers Maric and Dalic can sit in the government and are burdened with the number of affairs related to Agrokor? The judiciary in the future must be even more a guarantee of the stability of the state and society and is now gravely ill. It is not the goal, gentlemen, to press as many charges as possible as possible, to complete the procedures to show citizens and investors the efficiency of the judiciary and to tell those who wish to break the law that they do not belong in Croatia. And that's not the case now. So imagine, none of the conversions and privatisations so far have been legally convicted of crime in this country. And that is precisely where I see the stronger role of the State's Attorney's Office that must process all social anomalies in a timely and effective manner, especially corruption and various types of guessing. I'm asking the government to increase the capacity of the State's Attorney's office and more isolation so that it can deal with increasingly complex problems because it spreads corruption as a cancer of our society's wounds. Agrokor's case is a set of all these anomalies together and that, apart from being a major economic problem, is also a devastating message for the entire society especially of the younger generation. The reform of the judiciary that this government has not started working on at all must be one of the key reforms. Its objective must be to protect citizens and entrepreneurs more effectively, and to enable, and not as before, the economy in its development. When it comes to price increases, let me say, I can't help but recall that this government has started its mandate with the number of tolls, electricity, raising VAT in tourism, gas. I'm going to remind you of a scandalous move when the government bought social peace before the elections and over the back of state-owned companies. And all of that, dear gentlemen, will ultimately be paid by all of us Croatian citizens. No one is saying what this will mean for a domestic economy that creates a new value and jobs, which is unfortunately a practice that has already been seen so many times and I'm amazed at anyone who doesn't recognize it as a pre-election trick. State firms need to invest more in money, create new jobs, and the state needs to take care of citizens through social policy. The question is also why does the country that jointly manages MOL in INA even allow gas to be sold at a multiple price than is produced without having seen investment in research and new gas fields for years? Since MOL's been in INA, all we've seen is a decrease in production and degradation. And I'm going to remind you of another important big promise made by this government. She announced the INA stock purchase, nothing happened. The Hungarian state spreads its influence through the INA and through the expansion on the Croatian banking market because the OTP bank has taken over the Split Bank and Croatia is doing nothing on that salary,... develops, its leaders buy companies around the world, their banks buy other banks in Croatia, and the government and the CNB only observe it peacefully. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We become gentlemen of their servants and they laugh at us and order through the Croatian president to protect their interest. Bravo for Hungary, shame for Croatia. When will the Croatian government start protecting Croatian interests? When you advocate the quick introduction of the euro, then you want to put us all on an express train towards Greece. Something about real estate tax and tax policy. I must remind myself that this government wanted to introduce additional intrusion to Croatian citizens who would certainly further poverty them, which is a real estate tax. Not only could he not solve the problem of the fair distribution of the tax burden but it would worsen. Layically speaking, Croatia needs a law to regulate the issue but also to have the effect that richer people are still paying more than citizens who are poor. In this case, the government also succumbed to some kind of lobby, which again decided to protect their interests over the backs of the poorest. If the law had been implemented and it is currently unclear whether the law has been amended or suspended, it would have been the last nail in the coffin of the Croatian village. I must remind you that the pompous announced tax reform did not show the effects that were expected of it. So we're witnessing a whole series of gatherings. When we talk about employment rather than employment, Croatia is now, in spite of unemployment which is one of the highest in the EU, facing a lack of skilled and educated labour in particular in some occupations. What is particularly worrying is the decline and stagnation of the number of employees, further jeopardising the pension system. Due to the lack of workers in Croatia, some companies are already refusing jobs because they are not there. The government does nothing to change this, but also to urgently stop the drain of experts by encouraging specific branches of the economy that give greater added value to targeted sectoral measures. We're reducing the number of working most productive citizens. In the last five years, gentlemen of the most productive working age, which is between 19 and 40 years, almost 60 thousand workers are less. And about 150 thousand citizens have moved out of Croatia in the last three years. As for the international exchange that you state, I only state how successful it is, it also says that for the first time in trade with Serbia, Croatia has recorded the deficit. I'll say something in the education system at the end. We are still witnessing only the discussion of mandatory reform and it continues to go on for years and months, and nothing important seems in this area except the constant change of members of the commission. It's an ideological approach and exclusively a political approach. The more urgent and necessary the reform of secondary education, the introduction of a dual system and the one that will provide workers with the necessary skills for deficiting professions. An educational strategy is urgently needed to educate workers in line with the future needs of the so-called “Employment”. 4. industrial revolutions, as well as the needs of the accelerated development of the Croatian economy. And finally, Mr. Prime Minister, you and your government stop passing laws that suit different stakeholders, start dealing with clear strategies in the interests of our own citizens and our country. Croatia needs serious patriots, visionaries who will know strategic protection of Croatian interests, i.e. the interests of citizens, not parading, doing spectacles and speaking nicely in vain while others are picking our fruits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53317	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the Scibol will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53318	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Prime Minister, Ministers, Parliamentary MPs and MPs. The formal explanation of this annual report is the assessment of the situation in society. The first part of the rule was marked by the HDZ and MOST conflicts. The second part of the year was the HDZ and HNS coalition. It is a tumultuous political year marked by various political coups, the crisis in Agroklor that escalated, tax reform over which real estate tax occurred, but because of media pressure, the government considers for the first time to delay such a single imposition until, according to their estimates, it reflects an optimal time for the implementation of the said tax. We have quite a number of those who have left the homeland, 36 thousand 436 is an official number, but in reality it is much larger. The above 36 thousand 436 are based on data from the MUP, or on the number of registered residences in Croatia, but we know that not all who have said goodbye to Croatia have checked out their papers. In Croatia, 13 thousand 985 foreigners have found their home in the last year, which is one interesting piece of information. In view of the number of emigrated and displaced, we lost 22 thousand 451 inhabitants, about a city the size of Kutina. What are the causes? There's a lot of them. As a young man, I can say that a good part of a peer goes away because of the inability to create a decent life for himself and his family. We also have a large number of marriage breakdowns, but this is not a trend that is characteristic of Croatia alone but also of other countries of the world. It is obvious that hypercapitalism has taken hold and greatly affects the character of people who are becoming more selfish, more intolerant, and much less solid, which definitely affects human relationships that are often in this system, based solely on interest. Young people today are part of the hostages of such a system and society, and the other part are guilty because of their passivity and lack of social proactiveity, as well as in a political sense. The education system does not appreciate freedom of mind, critical examinations, own attitudes and thinking, but rather the reproduction of what is written. For most Europeans, the European project in which countries are approaching is the most important political event in the last 60 years to say that it has failed or that one of the aspects of the project is that its currency system could fail is considered almost here. However, reality sometimes sends painful messages, the European system is broken, and if it fails quickly, the price could be enormous. A particularly high price is paid by young Europeans whose future is in suspense. They may not fully understand the economic foundations, but they do realize that those who persuaded them to support the creation of the euro and the euro area in the context of unremembered progress today are talking to them about the necessity of austerity measures that will cause discomfort in the short term, but will help in the long term. There are strong similarities between the programmes that the IMF imposes on developing countries and growing markets. What was imposed on Greece and other affected countries at the time of the wake of the major recession. Recently, Minister Dalic announced the introduction of the euro, the first adjustment of the euro took place before the end of the millennium, more specifically 1.1.1999. At the time, Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain entered the common currency zone. Two years after 1.1.2001, Greece enters the euro zone, after which we have a 6-year break that has broken through Slovenia since 1.1.2007, and a year after that, Cyprus and Malta enter the monetary union. In 2009, Slovakia entered, 2011. Estonia, i.e. 2011 Slovakia, Estonia 2014, Latvia 2015 and Lithuania 2016 All EU member states are obliged to join the euro area as soon as the conditions are met. However, there would also correct the alleged diameter, it is not exactly true that all countries are obliged to take the euro, because there is something called the model... the option to exit the euro zone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Great Britain and Denmark did not accept such a relationship when EU accession negotiations, so that Denmark, for example, The euro does not have to be taken over, too, by the UK, but we know that the UK is in the process of exiting the EU. The abolition of capital controls in the 1990s has been limited to the power of central banks in the fight against speculation. The solution to the problem was found in the creation of a monetary union. It eliminated the possibility of devaluation and revaluation. So it's important to distinguish devaluation and depreciation, the same applies to the course, but devaluation is a monetary act, and depreciation is a market situation. Capital speculation will be disabled in the common currency system. The single market will strengthen the common currency, leading to an increased growth rate of the economy. It's all the thesis that went into the monetary union. In early 1999, the European Monetary Union officially started by freezing foreign exchange exchange rates at the level of the MMS parity, monetary policy being transferred to the European Central Bank. In 2002, the euro was put into circulation. In 1989, Delor's report provides the basis for the single currency of the euro and for the creation of the European Monetary Union. 3 degrees of the Delor agenda, all EU member states accept a common exchange rate mechanism or ERM, reduce exchange rates and centralise the common macroeconomic policy, replace national currencies with a single European currency. Is everything positive by entering the euro area? Are there any negatives we can't often hear in public? Of course there are because everything has its advantages and disadvantages. It is important for democracy to bring advantages and disadvantages. German Finance Minister Hans Eikel admitted in May 2002 that the introduction of the euro led to price hikes, and that the burden of transition to a new currency was transferred to consumers. We can give an example from Latvia, which moved to the euro 1.1.2014, prices started to rise, even several months before the transition to the euro, i.e. before January 1, and continued to grow several months after. Merchants will not suddenly rise, on the very day of the transition to the euro, because they know it can result in protests and riots, but rather the transition is carried out gradually over 6 months or more. Prices will go up but not so much to the obvious, and once the euro is introduced, average consumers will still be confused enough by the transition that after the introduction, prices can be further increased. Joining the European Monetary Union is something in an economy called asymmetric shocks. You have a country that is in economic development, you have a country that is in economic depression or recession and is difficult to bring together a single monetary policy behind one and another country. What's important is to say that the country is losing its independent monetary policy or the possibility of using policies to stabilise outputs and employment When the country is under pressure, the change in the way out, the fluctuating course takes precedence over the fixed rate, automatic stabilisation through changes in relative prices. [[Intruder Reiner: Please bring the end.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53319	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the Honorable Representative, Kreso Beljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53320	Thank you very much. We're a little asleep. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, honourable ministers and ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I listened carefully to the presidents of the government of the Republic of Croatia for more than an hour, and I must say that there is an old Croatian proverb that says "Who is doing, that is wrong". In more than an hour of exposé by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, I have heard no self-critics, no recognised error, and all of it has led me to a single conclusion that this was not a work report but a report on the failure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the last year. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, 75% of people who still live in the Republic of Croatia don't believe you and think the state is going in a bad direction. If we were to add hundreds, now hundreds of thousands of people who have been evicted recently from the Republic of Croatia, then that percentage would certainly be higher. We are far away today, miles away, perhaps further than ever before from the state of prosperity that we all dreamed of 27 years ago and fought for, and unfortunately, the worst is waiting for us. I'll go in order. As far as foreign policy is concerned, Croatia or the government of the Republic of Croatia and the President of the State are persistently pushing us into some international integration that is not on the lists that make up the future sanitary corridor between the East and the West of Europe. I don't know what this is about, I don't know who we should be serving but the fact remains that Croatia is not a place in any new military provinces, but it is a place among the developed Central and Western European countries where it believes, all of our residents want the state to belong. After all, no one from Croatia is moving to Poland or the Czech Republic or Hungary but moving our young people to Ireland, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and the Western and central countries, and we as a state should strive to do so. You managed to fight us in a year or not to make peace with all neighbours, today there is no country bordering the Republic of Croatia with which we could say that we are in good relations, however, in ever worse and worse relations with both Slovenia and Hungary and Montenegro and with BiH and, of course, classically and with Serbia. Within the EU, but even wider, we have no allies and we as a small country that has always been dependent on allies, remember 1990s and alliances with Germany, with the Vatican, without which there would be no international recognition, today we are in a situation where we do not have an ally on either side. As far as judicial policy is concerned, there is no need to lose too many words because your judicial policy is well known and well known to everyone in this country. The verdicts we've been witnessing for the last few days and the last few years, but the last few days, dramatically, these are the judgments that the whole country is laughing at. They're absurd to everyone in this country except you from HDZ and your coalition scouts from the HNS and other parties. I must remind you, Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, that these days, a woman who has been punished for picking mushrooms and threatening to do so, and on the other hand, those who kill on our roads and on our seas, end up free. It's your judiciary. Financial and tax policy, you introduced a real estate tax, and you gave it up. You've got all the local unit leaders who've practically already done a lot of work and where we need to explain your tax policy even though we don't know exactly what you're thinking. Not to talk about it, and Mr. Schucker will know very well that in his time, more towns and municipalities don't get budget guidelines and local administrations don't get, don't get angry, I'm the mayor, I guess I know there's been no guidelines for making budgets for three or four years, but we can't be wrong, of course, but good. State property, a ministry invented for Mr. Maric, the other Maric because Mr. Maric didn't want to be a minister without a portfolio, had to find something for him, so he found exactly state property, has a Mr. Prime Minister, only one task. To hand over all state property to the management of cities, municipalities and counties and to make a decree by which the ministry would only be abolished. It's the only task he's had for a year he hasn't done. Educational policy, I wonder where school reform is stuck, if we can even talk about some social consensus about the reform that is, in no way, going on. Although the new coalition is in place, the minister comes from one of the HDZ satellite parties, there remains an old policy and an old maternal attitude towards education, according to educational workers above all, who are offended, who are underpaid, who have no authority and who have no motive to teach our children anything other than what children can learn from society alone, and that can't be good. There are still unnecessary items, and soon, if the primary school students continue to do this, they will have to hire bag holders because the bags that pupils carry in the fifth grade of elementary school are simply not adequate for that school age. As far as health or social policy is concerned, we have a silent announcement from your Minister Kujundzic on the privatisation of health care, specifically the privatisation of primary health care. Our doctors are leaving mass and will continue to leave and the state does nothing to prevent them from doing so and in some way to keep them in Croatia that has educated them. Do you know Mr Plenkovic that every five Croatian citizens need social assistance and almost half of our country's inhabitants are threatened with poverty? Croatia, under your leadership, under the leadership of HDZ and satellites, ceases to be a socially responsible state, that is a fact. Perhaps because of that social name that some of your coalition partners probably remind you of socialism or communism. You'd have to explain to them if that wasn't the case. As for the demographic policy with which you boast so much, I must remind you that less than 4 million people live in the country today and that today with a personal ID you can go to Ireland and Germany and that you do not have to log out anywhere, and it is those who do not enter any statistics. The tendency, of course, is the constant dramatic rapid decline of the population and further emigration and natural growth is in an ever greater and greater downturn. And what is particularly saddening is that it emigrates the most active part of the population and that very, very soon, it will become questionable financing of all possible funds and probably of us politicians. These people are moving out of the country not only because they are underpaid or unable to find a job, I know a lot of people who have moved out and who will move out even though they have a relatively good job and a well-paid job in Croatia. They're moving out for you because they can't watch what's going on and they don't want their children growing up in a society that's getting more backwards and more primitive. They are evicting because this is because our country of Croatia is probably the only country in the world where the birth certificate has a six-month period, Mr Plenkovic. Because if it goes six months, that document is no longer valid. It's just one of the absurdities in this country that gets more and more on people's nerves. And because of such little things, around the little things the gunned down go away. I will not spend too much words on agriculture because I have nothing to say except you can be ashamed of Vlado Republic and all those who made this from Croatian rural space and Croatian agriculture. You are ashamed of anything you did to Agrokor and Agrokor so indirectly and directly destroyed Croatian rural space, destroyed the Croatian village and now that it has failed it will destroy what little good is left and what you are guilty of is absolutely you and only you. Don't listen well, don't be angry, if you heard well then what you're doing would come to your ears and you wouldn't raise your hands as little children and guard your chairs in some next election, but you, as a patriot from HDZ, would rebel over these things because you know I'm right and you know that all this is true. ... [[You don't have to yell.]] [[Let's, let's, let's hear it.]] Who said that? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First of all, we're not on "you" Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53321	Come on, let's be a little parliamentary, come on, please, let's not yell out of the bench and the speaker will continue his
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53322	And Mr. Plenkovic referred to the Slavonia project, and I have to especially highlight Slavonia because it is the most endangered in terms of emigration, so it's mass evicting right from Slavonia even though our Croatian islands, the majority of the island, even though Lika, although Bilogora is already evicted, but Slavonia is the one that you have specifically advocated, so you have gathered the counties of all 5 counties, announced a more helpful project Slavonia. From that I see nothing, Slavons see nothing, or Slavons what they see is the Atlantic Ocean and the Republic of Ireland and no longer see the Pannonian Croatia, the Slavic Plain. I hope the Slavonia law will soon come because in this way you would at least declare that you care even though I really don't know what would be done with this kind of business. You're talking about growth, all the numbers are growing, I see and the Croatian public sees that in Croatia only the number of arrests is growing, the number of those who leave this beautiful but sad country and the number of Croatian defenders is growing year by year, year by year, from law to law. In the end, Mr Plenkovic is defended by what is unwarranted, you defend Zdravko Maric, you defend a man who did not even come into politics because a year and a half ago he was not a member of HDZ, I don't know him is in the meantime a member, you defend a man who is a directly extended arm of Agrokor and you defend the the thesis of all those who claim that Agrokor and HDZ are one and the same and that Agrokor generally has HDZ as a political party that defends him. On the side of this farce about the arrest, we will finally see what was thought when it went into these actions that were funny to the entire Croatian public. I will end up with Mr Plenkovic in a way that I will tell you on behalf of the entire Croatian public, or I will not tell the entire Croatian public on behalf of these 75% of the people who still live in Croatia, who think that Croatia is going in the wrong direction, that you and your government are resigning and that you will call the elections in which someone who is going to make a mistake and the one who is wrong is probably going to do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53323	Thank you very much. On behalf of GLAS and HSU MPs, the next time will be shared by distinguished MPs, there will be no sharing of time, the distinguished representative Mrak-Taritash will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53324	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, a respected prime minister, respected Deputy Prime Minister, co-workers and colleagues. Here's a chance to listen to the report on the first year of the government's mandate and we have one common methodology. The usual methodology to move over an hour says everything he's done, that we listen more or less carefully, that behind that assembly is a little bit as empty as it is now, and each one is on his laptop or on his cell phone and we're not listening to each other. What is more important is that when you listen to the report, you feel that we live in different countries. To live in a country where everything is beautiful, beautiful, or to live in a country where elections start. Because the premiere was given by an excellent pre-election speech, an hour in which he promised, which is how and why he should work. I wish I had heard what had been done in that speech, that I had heard what had possibly been done and that I had heard what would be strong ideas and strong desires to be done. Unfortunately, I didn't hear that. But it is really divided on topics. And when you look at those speeches a little bit and you look at the facts a little bit and you don't believe other people's words, but you believe your eyes, there's something to express the success of this government. The success of this government is that it even exists. And that's the government's success. One interesting political trade, the government has managed to survive and the result is that our citizens have completely lost confidence in democracy, they have lost, or we have convinced them of what they are saying all along, which is that politicians trade with each other, that when you choose someone not to know who you chose and success is that no one has become the most popular politician in Croatia. It's an absolute success, and on that, all congratulations, none of the governments have ever succeeded. But let's see how this government works, it works in a way that we have great ideas for the public. So we also have an idea that we have the opportunity to see through the past days, which shows Agrokor and what we have, we have that the government works by the model of trying and making mistakes. So we try something, and then we admit that we made a mistake, and then we try something from the beginning, let's see the tax reform that we talked about, so we have a real estate tax, so we say, and we're going to introduce it even though everyone said no Croats were saving in real estate, they weren't saving in gold, they weren't saving in shares, they're not in diamonds, we're not ready don't. It's been said, we'll make it so we can say this summer, so here we are. We should look at the same thing a little bit, a year ago there was a government program here, and in that government program we have a list of promises, and now we have a year after the list of promises, but let's see what promises and what reality are. And then we have promises to create new and better jobs and now we're saying it. We have done the same thing, we have created 10,000 more high-quality jobs for employment, but these jobs have not been created in Croatia, but elsewhere in the EU and young people are moving. Then it's said, we're working at the Ministry of Demography to stop the eviction and demographic restoration. Not only did we not stop. She's getting dizzy. Mr. Prime Minister, too, we have young people who want to leave and are basically young and educated in the voltage of strength. Those who should be the bearers of the development of Croatia and its demographic restoration, without people, without young people without ambitious people without educated people, have no demographic renewal, and there is no development of Croatia. And that's what they say, when you talk to them a little bit, when you don't live in a tower and you think life passes by you, but you talk to people a little bit and you ask why they leave. So they tell you, not just for work, that's part of it. They're moving because they're tired of waiting for something to change in Croatia. They're tired of making nice promises, they're tired of saying nice words, for the simple reason they have healthy eyes, and they see them with their eyes. They see that corruption has not stopped in Croatia, that nepotism, primitiveism, inefficientness, infunctionality has not stopped in Croatia. They are fed up with taxes such as taxes in Sweden, and services are as they are in Croatia. We mention social justice and solidarity. Lately the Croatian government has cynicism, everyone looks at themselves and their interest. Public well, it stopped being a subject. We only mention the public good when it's convenient in some context and we should mention it. That should make us no progress. At every step these young people see, see, because they live in a real world. They don't live off the map towers. They see that they prosper the privileged who have relatives in the right place, and they are even better off being members of individual parties. And it is especially ideal that members of the parties who are in power. We're full of demographics. But take a look at how it actually works. We have a ministry that has that in its title. And then take a look at that ministry and the way it uses EU funds, what we don't use, will be used by someone else. He will use it in a way that will be prosperity and that will be his progress. We don't use it. When it comes to the Ministry of Demography, we have not even used EU funds, which are designed to restore homes, for young people and homes for social services. We didn't even take advantage of what happened when it came to disabled people. We didn't even take advantage of what was possible for us, which is to withdraw funds for social self-services, as well as one of the very simple withdrawal funds for food to children in schools. Yeah, but what did we do? We said we didn't want defense attorneys, we didn't want the lawyers to come here, they had a report, that this report showed a real state, and that we had things we didn't like in that report. And who are we going with? Well, the simplest thing for us was the ones that we all hope are important to us, and we showed how important it was, it was the child's attorney. In the same way, in several times from Mr. Prime Minister, I had the opportunity to hear and hear about this pay phone overcoming social divisions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, regardless of what you are all on your phones and you are watching what has been lately and how what media you have passed on to Croatia has never been more divided than it is now. Great. In a year we did great, I'd say a little longer. There has never been a greater difference between the desirable and the unwanted in this country on different grounds. Again, blood cells are numbered, people wonder if they are desirable faith, whether they love each other according to the desired model, and if the family has been arranged in a desirable way. Divisions in the institutions of a state that should be secular starts from kindergarten. The state has decided to tap and tangle into things that they shouldn't at all care about and create frightening divisions. Special attention in its programme was given to the economy, clearly, logically and the story of what should be done and we have a really hot story, the story of Agrokor. So this Agrokor, this one big tent or a big umbrella shades all the other things. Well, then we've got one day to watch who's getting arrested, so when they're gonna get arrested, who's where all of them are together. The story of Agrokor isn't since yesterday, the story of Agrokor is much longer and we need to make it clear next. Agrokor is the result of related capitalism, a result of the string and of a private company and state. The result of which one company has both production and processing and sales. And what it should be is that it never happens again in Croatia. And then we have a soap opera where we all participate together. The soap opera starts with the establishment of an investigative commission. And then we're all for the Investigation Commission, but not at this very moment. And we all know how the soap opera ends. And yet to make it so interesting then we introduce some new characters, so let's do it all the more interesting and white smoke from the Parliament a week ago, we agreed. And it's nice to have everyone happy and satisfied with the Commission of Investigation here. On Saturday, I accidentally list the news, and I hear the Prime Minister of the Parliament saying we had a meeting and we don't think the Commission is going to start working. And I think to myself, Mr. Jandrokovic knows something we don't. And he knows something that we've really been listening to all Monday whether it's gonna start or not. And you started your speech interestingly, you said, Prime Minister, that you were putting a man at the heart of politics. And we put in a man named Ivica Todoric. And he's at the heart of politics right now and we're discussing him, and we're saying that this investigation committee might actually need to, maybe it doesn't. The investigation committee was voted in this assembly, the Bureau of Investigation was voted by parliamentary representatives. So let's be responsibly and clearly, let the HDZ colleagues, so the ruling majority together with the CNS have a sufficient number of hands to say neatly we don't want the Investigative Commission, be the point of abolishing the Investigation Commission, I can vote and remove soap from the Parliament. Let's not introduce new characters, finish it, and maybe it'll be in another time of the subject of continuing that soap opera with some other characters. Equally so much of your report and the importance of the economy. Among other things, when talking about the economy, we need to talk about budgets and expenditures. And what we must clearly say is that Croatia will remain a fiscally irresponsible country burdened with interest costs, exposed to potential fiscal disaster in the next crisis. What am I talking about? You can't have it. And growth pays the doctor to keep us from moving out. And a teacher. Why? Because they deserve it. And buy bomber hunters because we need them so badly because who's protecting our skies? And invest in rail infrastructure because it's lagging behind. And in the restoration of schools and hospitals because their roofs are sneezing and I've had the opportunity to hear that the energy recovery was started, energy recovery started a little longer ago and gave more to our defenders because they defended us. There's a thousand other things. In the countries where responsible people live, the country where the prime minister is responsible for managing the country must be respected with a set of macro frameworks. Of course we don't know what the frameworks are, it would be a little easier for us to know but we clearly know how distribution is done and how the current government sees it. The increase in assets for planes and defenders, the increase in funds for what we've counted, and everything we've counted seems to have no money. We are equally full of mouths about Croatia wanting to be a competitive country, that we want to position ourselves with other EU countries and with other countries when it comes to the world. And then I look at the competitiveness report a little bit. The numbers don't lie, the numbers are a curse. It's what it is and you can't, you can explain how much you want it to be, but the number is what it is. And then you see that in top 10 the most competitive countries in the world starting with Switzerland and ending with Finland, but let's say that the Czech Republic is 31st, Poland 39th and top 50 ends Slovenia in 48th place and Bulgaria at 49th. Croatia is 74. We should know this moment what the projects are, how we want to get in there, say 2025, it should be a reality in the top 45th on a new level of competitiveness, but others won't stand. The others will work just the same way. So, they won't stand another one until we get to it. That is why, sir, we need greater ambitions and a full approach in public policies. And for the end, as you were about to say about foreign policy, Honorable Prime Minister, let me be well-intentioned, and I'll say it the next way. Maybe too many of your foreign policy experts went to other jobs. On different hills in Zagreb, there was a flood between those two hills, which is clearly insurmountable. Because the consequence is that we have never had more complex and never weaker external political relations, that is, the position of our country. Dear Prime Minister, of all things, one big 0 was realised if we except that you did a great job of trade and that we managed to make it clear that no one was the most popular politician and that 75% of Croatian citizens said so. As is said in the reform of education, and in everything else, it is not enough just to talk and pet the eyes of the public by listing projects that we are going to do better. Of which there's no big P, not even a little P of the projects. Tax reform has been made in a way that is due to it, that our citizens are in fear when one of the ministers will wake up and think of some new ones, some new taxes and some new ones. Since my time is running out, I would just say and pray for the end, do not frighten the citizens with new taxes. We're scaring them with enough of the latest scandalous judgments. And the few citizens who believed there was a judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, lost their trust. We introduced a new word of syncope into the judiciary. So that syncope will remain marked in our justice system. I don't always miss the chance not to say that I'm an architect, that I'm a technical profession, that I'm technically thinking. So when I look at that verdict, I only understand that we have a terrible lot of people in prison so that the deal in the judiciary is that we try not to put new people in prison because there's no room, we don't want to work new ones. But let's cheat on everything I said. At the head of state, there should be a diameter that's responsible. A diameter that doesn't say promises, a diameter that media doesn't have a topic that's hot, but a diameter that says after a year, we wanted it, we did it, and in the next 3 years we're going to do it. According to everything we've seen, we have no reason to be optimistic for the next three years. This government does not just pour confidence on us to the parliamentary deputies, it is incomparably important that this government does not give confidence to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53325	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, the next will be shared by the distinguished representative of Dodig and Hrg. First Reverend Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53326	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, so today we've been listening to your report, I don't think you spoke in three languages but in Croatian. But it's an interesting fact how different we've heard that report. So here, for example, you started with the sentence as it was, that the man was at the heart of the event and you connected it to certain concrete examples. Some have heard here that you have spoken the word Todorovic or it is their fiction, and I have heard that when you mentioned that man is at the heart of the event, I have heard 30,000 unemployed in the context of Agrokora, to 1,000 people who are related to the OPGs and Agrokor, to co-operatives, etc. I wonder what happened to us hearing so different, something that's clearly said. Look, it's hard for me to talk like this because I'm talking to you and I'm looking at them, but you'll understand. There are situations in life where we have a hard time dealing with dissatisfaction. And now people who really want to change that dissatisfaction have two kinds of reactions. In some people, dissatisfaction turns into badness and manipulation, and some turn into an attempt to change the real situation. To describe how manipulations and manipulations are done, I will mention another piece of information that is said here that numbers do not lie, and before one speaker said that 70% of people, 75% of people do not support this policy direction. It's about absolute lies and manipulation of numbers. First of all, 75% of those surveyed, it could be out of 100 people surveyed, 75 people think it's wrong. But generalizing it and turning it into a general dissatisfaction 75% of citizens are really manipulation. When are we gonna come to our senses that we're gonna stop manipulating? Because we're becoming part of a manipulative mile ourselves. It is your fault, and we have now heard that a judge in Sibenik gave the verdict he said. Judge, well, judge. What do you think you had to do? Change the judge? To replace the Minister of Justice? And these are amazing facts in which you put blame on someone who has absolutely nothing to do with it. And it comes out of a house called the Croatian Parliament, the most significant political institution in the country. To make things worse, to make it worse, dozens of people here criticizing you after they've said incredible nonsense, I'm not gonna tell lies but nonsense, they're not here, they're not here. I guess they don't feel the courage to at least look each other in the eye. Marasa, we disagree, but we look at each other, he has the courage to stay. I don't agree with him at all. But there are those who tell lies and disappear. I'm looking at Minister Varga here. You mentioned e-indicators and achievements in the health system. Minister Varga deserves a lot of credit for that. Well, that's what it's supposed to say, it's not in this government. So why is it so hard to tell the truth? I didn't agree on many things, but what's true is the improvement he's brought, it's absolutely the basis on which the current minister is trying to fix it. So are we going to think that way or not? I'll go back to Agrokor for a while. Agrokor was really a test. I'm not talking about Agrokor being a good story and what happened to Agrokora for years is that it's something that needs our essence model. And that we should review our views on how you, how you treat these companies that are of systemic importance. But what would have happened if the government hadn't reacted? I think we should attack both partners and HDZ no matter what government, and the SDP, and everyone in this House. Are we here for the people or the party interest? So Agrokor funded all governments, including the SDP. We didn't finance it but we gave it to Agrokor to see for once and for all. And now I'm going to say something that's going to turn out awfully ugly right now. But Ivica Todorovic used to serve as a rescue for certain companies. The second thing is that in such situations an ambitious ego develops, so people start thinking that they can do anything, that they can do more than that. But when we look at it in the context of the European economy of large companies, then it had to happen, it's a fact. The problem is, people didn't know what it was. Mr. Prime Minister, you have individually mentioned numerous areas or should I return to Agrokor. And now for this commission. That's what I was talking about this morning. It's a test, gentlemen, whether the Agrokor Committee will take. A commission to spread terror of chaos, general paranoia, and trial without judges. The commission has no desire to say it politically is we condemn it because there are no criteria for it. It was evident that the criteria were party interest and attack the government. By contrast, the court has clear criteria on which it is based whether someone is guilty or not. They have standards that have been translated into laws. And that's why I think, not because I belong to this side, but because I deeply believe that it doesn't make sense in this way to spread even more division and spread even greater dissatisfaction in society. You mentioned a curricula reform. I absolutely agree that's a first-rate question. The first-class question is as much as we are plural society and everyone has their own vision of raising children and should respect all these facts and find consensus. Unfortunately, we have the exception on one side and occasionally on another side of the exclusion. This has to be avoided in this case. We can't keep talking about the stand area, I'm getting a little out of the topic, but we can't keep talking about the stand area. It's not the world and society in general in crisis because of the weakness of the stand area. The world is in crisis, human relations are in crisis, justice is in crisis, honesty is in crisis, respect for the law is in crisis, so if we ignore social sciences and I belong to natural sciences, you know, medicine is purely natural science, then we can expect these crises. It's not our crisis that we lack people from the stand area. Today knowledge is flowing, indeed, the crisis is in social relations. And ignoring and completely removing social relations and education in society, in a social sense, in humanistic sciences, would be a huge mistake. You mentioned the Executive Act, you mentioned he was improved, he should be further improved. Christian solidarity. Why did you mention the Christian solidarity that no one mentioned here? For he rests in the experience, resting on righteousness that is regulated by something called God's righteousness. If a man takes for himself his righteousness, then there is no righteousness. That's why this sentence is important. Violence in the family, gender equality, there I absolutely agree with you, with everything you've done and I hope you'll further improve that. The position of workers, an absolutely important fact. Positive business environment. A positive business environment cannot be in unstable political situations, so this is an extremely important fact what we are saying here today to have a business environment that is positive. And what you said at one point with an unfair economic model, and that's not clear to me how people don't hear those key sentences. This was an unfair economic model, and this is the moment that we're dealing with it right now, but the problem is that he wants to not deal with it, but he's dealing with people who were doing it 30 years ago, twenty-five years ago, creating a state. Watching from this context that time and what was happening is completely pointless. I'm glad your exposure is still focused on the problem here and now. You have concluded that from war to this day, this is one of the most serious challenges in the existence of the Croatian state, but in this sense you did not blame those who were in front of you, although unfortunately there are the guilty there, there are answers. But you're not looking for an alibi in them, but you're facing problems and you're defending what's most important is constructive dialogue. Without it, we don't stand a chance. So, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm just going to tell you this much. The HDS club, HSLS, HDSSB, will still speak to my colleague Hrg for a while, that I will leave him enough time, he told me to speak all the time but a little, supports this report, absolutely supporting it, hoping that, from everything I've set out five principles that are covered by all of your reports, which is the trust we have to develop, trust is a very important fact, trust. And I'd like to mention right behind that security. These are fundamental values that are important for the sense of each individual. Trust and security arise when it comes to people around them, to their family, but what gives them the most trust in a broader context is the state, and that is if you want God in this other sense. That is why we need to build such relationships that at all times an individual feels secure. ... I'm not gonna ask who said that. [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] The other thing that's important to me as a party and this club wants to see it move a lot more. Self-sustainability and here we primarily think about food and energy production, the preservation of natural goods and the environment that we find very much in everything you've been saying. And finally, peace, the principle of justice and freedom with responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53327	Thank you. A colleague of the pack? It's all said. Okay. Then we'll move on to the next club of representatives, and that's the IDS, PGS and the List of Rijeka, and that's the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53328	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues on behalf of our club, IDS, PGS and Rijeka List, I will look back on the work but also on the government's policy in the first year of office. Dear Prime Minister, a year ago in the Parliament, you presented the government programme and said that Croatia needs a new vision, that Croatia needs a new approach in order to ensure a prosperous and orderly state of equal opportunities despite negative indicators. You said you were convinced that with a clear vision and unity we could achieve positive changes. However, what can we read from so far’s moves and decisions? In this sense, I would especially like to highlight a few topics, the dangerous trends that this government is afraid to ignore. First of all, I would like to warn again today about strengthening ultra-conservative initiatives and groups promoting social exclusion and intolerance. I will list just a few of the most obvious examples here: curricula reform, an important and over-needed reform that has not yet reached consensus and which has not begun to be implemented, published, so the highly inappropriate Family Law has been withdrawn. The Council was established to deal with the consequences of the rule of non-democratic regimes, which, as we had the opportunity to hear after 70 years of World War II, will discuss whether the Ustasha regime was criminal or not. Well, I'm asking my esteemed colleagues and colleagues what exactly is there to discuss? The ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and combating of violence against women in families known as the Istanbul Convention is delayed, in a situation where we witness daily abuse of both women and girls in Croatia. With its relationship to these topics, the government shows that there is no power, no power to make decisions and that unfortunately there is no power to resist radical conservative groups that want to restrict fundamental civil rights and make Croatia a closed society. Our club, IDS club, PGS and Rijeka Lists will continue to fight such tendencies, we will continue to raise our voice against nationalism and exclusion because we believe that openness, co-existence, civilization standards, standards that we should finally accept as top social values. I also appeal to the Government, but also to a good part of you distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs of this honourable Parliament, do not close your eyes to the things that Croatia is bringing back. The second topic I want to talk about is foreign policy. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the president of the state and the Prime Minister are co-creators of foreign policy. Thus, the constitutional arrangement requires the president of the state and the Prime Minister to cooperate with each other, to exchange views which should result in a harmonised foreign policy. In the last year, however, we have witnessed that the constitutional provision on co-creation of foreign policy in practice means only one thing, one country in Croatia has two different foreign policies. So, nothing since a year ago announced community and clear vision. We live in a challenging time that carries a whole series of security threats. First of all, I mean terrorism, but also other challenges related to migration, refugees and the like. In addition, the EU is being transformed. BREXIT has dramatically changed the atmosphere in EU-based countries. After President Macron's victory with a pro-European programme in France, the victory of the pro-European forces in the elections in Germany, the victory of the Dutch Liberals shows that Europe will develop in more speed and more formats. In addition to the actions within European integrations, I must mention regional co-operation as an integral part of the development of good neighbourly relations, security of stability and prosperity in the region. Instead of foreign non-disclosure, hesitation, wandering, Croatia needs to capitalise finally its geostrategic position and define a clear, unique foreign policy strategy on all the issues I have mentioned here. When I talk about the assessment of the government's work in the past year, I must also look at the biggest economic challenge Croatia has faced in 2017. It's certainly about the crisis in the Agrokor concert. The IDS supports the establishment of the Assembly Investigation Commission on Agrokor, as citizens want and need to know how Agrokor got into the situation. But what we think is much more important must know what will happen to him tomorrow. It's as important as I said earlier to establish the truth. However, it is even more important for citizens to get an answer to the question of how the crisis is really planning to be resolved, which will leave the consequences on the citizens, on the Croatian economy, on the food industry, on suppliers. The public has not yet had the opportunity to hear from either the government's representatives or the Agrokor's extraordinary administration. We therefore ask the government and the extraordinary administration to communicate transparently with the citizens, to present to us all a clear projection of the development of the company situation and a concrete recovery plan to express the economic bombs. From the Agrokora situation, we have a view that we must learn lessons, lessons based on which we should once and forever abandon the current model of political and economic functioning of the country that has brought us into this situation. Dear Prime Minister, during the presentation of the work programme here in the Parliament, you said you would, I quote, "build a functional, professional and accessible public administration, advocate decentralisation of jurisdiction on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. That what can be effectively solved at local or county level has no reason to resolve at central level and that the counties need to be strengthened as holders of regional growth and development." What have we got to see so far? You have managed to pass laws in which there is no letter d of the need for comprehensive functional and financial decentralisation. You have passed laws that financial additionally burden municipalities and cities and counties, while a good deal of state resources that could generate huge revenues remains completely untapped. I do not understand why it continues to be hard and persistently insisting on a model that has not produced any results for more than 2 and a half decades, why it prevents Croatia from looking at the most developed European countries such as Denmark or Germany that have recognised decentralisation as the most effective model of economic development. Local self-government units are best aware of the needs of their citizens and communities and should therefore be able to develop their environments by means of functional and financial decentralisation, and take what I want to stress, with full responsibility, for their actions and policies. And at the very end of everything here, it's visible that the government is missing two basic things. Vision and determination. There's no clear direction, no looking into the future, no common action you announced here a year ago. No serious reform or change has been initiated, let alone been implemented. Serious topics related to the growth of competitiveness of the economy or facilitating the investment process are not being discussed in the Croatian Parliament. But that's why they're also on the agenda, and we have ideological topics that would be resolved in countries with developed institutions in five minutes. One good and positive example I want to point out at this occasion, as was the call for joint consideration and harmonisation of views on the arbitration procedure, is negligible in relation to a number of open issues and challenges. Given the lack of strategic thinking of comprehensive solutions, the lack of courage to take decisive and unequivocal moves is only one thing for sure. Again we miss the opportunity to build a society, miss the opportunity to build institutions and beyond all our economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53329	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Living Wall Club, the time will be shared by the distinguished representatives Sinčić and Bunjac. First of all, the esteemed representative Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53330	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Plenkovic is here now. I remember when he asked for support while I was saying how much memory I served wasn't there. I wanted to ask him at first if he remembered my speech, then at the very heart of the speech I pointed out that if he wanted something from our country, our country made it necessary to reform several key institutions – Croatian Radiotelevision, the Croatian National Bank, then Dudi, now the Ministry of State Property, or whatever you want an organization that deals with state property management, the State's Attorney's Office with all its segments, especially USKOK, tax administration. Have we, or have you, Mr Plenkovic and your government entered any reforms and any of these institutions? You haven't entered any serious reforms. There was some scratching on the surface, and I'll explain why later. Your mandate has begun, we're talking about the INA, let's remember then the arbitration, which will be with the INA, whether it should be bought or not. Our point is that INA needs to be bought, although oil is on the ground. However, he is still the main energy. However, not at the price of HEP. You then suggested a solution to sell 25% of HEP to buy INA. For almost a year, however, there has been no INA speech, and we still want to sell 25% of HEP. What's he saying? I will also remind you that Mr. Oreshkovic's past government also wanted to sell the stake in HEP, however, it has proved to be an absolute foundation, that HEP is super liquid. Obviously, a directive has come because our policies, as well as the recognition of Mr. Seks as a great architect of Croatian politics, are formed somewhere outside, and the directives are coming to Croatia that we must meet. So somewhere out there, it's decided that HEP has to be privatized as everything has to be privatized, and now we have to somehow justify it. This time it didn't work out with the INA, but we still have to privatize it. Croatia is today a poor country where millions of citizens are poor. One terrible depopulation policy is being implemented. I sometimes wonder, so is it possible that this is a reality, is it possible that this is the politics of the ruling majority or now HDZ, is it possible that the goal here one day is to remain only politicians, councilors, arrests and allies of the ruling party, and that all the rest of us who disagree with that policy are not closed, scattered, deceased or whatever else, and then you'll have 100% of this Parliament, you'll have 151 seats, expand yourself even worse, have 250 as Hungary once had if that's the goal. I believe that's not the point and that we all have to work together to make something out of this country. But we're going in a row. I remember Mr. Maric's presentation, asking him a question, among other things, about the withdrawal of money from credit through Serbia to the private accounts of Todorovic. He then said there was no special treatment at the IRS. A few days before or after that current morning what happened? An article in the newspaper says this: "A trial of the Mamic brothers who pulled 116 million kunas from the club and $12.2 million of unsuspected and unpaid taxes and taxes should begin at the Osijek County Court" Mr. Maric. Therefore, it is not true that someone is not comfortable. Well, someone's obviously had a good time, so there's obviously some sort of bias here. If not you in the last two years, maybe the Mommys were stealing before that, before you did, and then someone shot. What did you do to investigate cases like this? Here's another example. Recently, information came out, so I quote: "It is estimated that there are about 600 large taxpayers in Croatia. In these 170 never," watch out "there was never any VAT control, there was no control of the reported profits among 252 companies and there was no control of the reported income and contributions from 378 large companies". So, in the last two decades, it's almost 20 years that the impartiality of the IRS, these are the interpretations, expertise and Mr. Maric. Please, nice. I told you at the beginning, get more of that IRS, then Todoric, Agrokor. And ask the tax inspectors. Well, it's like Stalin used to be, so you shouldn't have mentioned that you were going out there to inspection him, so you'd be at least discriminated against under a mobing or transferred to another workplace. And it's been decades. So what are we talking about here? Let's move on. State in the Croatian judiciary. Therefore, it is not only the problem in Croatia that youth unemployment is a key problem. The problem is there is no justice, no order and no vision in the Croatian state. In 2019, it will slowly begin but certainly obsolete for Mr. Ivo Sanader, the great Prime Minister who was praised from the East to the West, especially from this Parliament, his corruption affairs are known everywhere, I will not spend much of the words on him here. In addition, there are processes for Bozidar Kalmeta, Milan Bandic, Horvatinčić, Josip Petrovic, Slaven Žužul, war profiteer Đuri Gavrilović, Nadan Vidosevic, Zdravko Mamić and his brother, Marina Lovrić-Merzel, there is the case of Sach, Čehok, Ježić etc., etc. So, what are you responsible for, Mr. Plenkovic? What did I say at first? The DORH, the Jump and the Justice Department. You failed to run or create in your year and neither did the previous government in 20 years an effective system, an effective judicial system which in real time, not 20 years, will go to Glavas at the 14th year of that mutilation of the judicial, Sanader now in 10. So, an effective judicial system that, in time within a few years, as the normal world does, the developed world will be judged by a powerful judgment that is just. And what will one average Croatian family who has been completed for several kunas of some kind or who have said for picking chestnuts when such capitalists are released or have not been charged or dropped for any process. So it's not one of the big fish or the furry or when something's just gonna be taken away from him. You created the climate and maintained it to make crime in Croatia worth it. It's worth it. It pays off stolen somewhere 50 million, give 10 for bail, though it's gone now but it was a few months ago, give 10 for bail, 5 million for lawyers the best and you're left with it. And after ten, fifteen years, the court municipally gives you something, the county cut you down, then the Supremes cut you down even further, and the Constitutional set you free. Therefore, who believes in this country when it is unable to deal with organised crime, economic crime. It's frustrating people. Well, at least give us a yes, and on a daily basis we have soaps like that. And the other day, Horvatine. Well, you're not directly to blame for Horvatinčić, but you're guilty of establishing or maintaining that system, or you don't want to change it to be effective. It's very simple. Our judiciary is incompetent, underpaid, sub-capacitated and, of course, overloaded with a number of objects, in one word corrupt. I'm not going to talk about this now, the Implementing Law has changed minimally, the steps are forward, but the main problems remain, all the absurdities and debts are growing and staying. I'll look back at the end of my presentation to the Agrokor Committee. It's mentioned these days. Yes, as stated in the Law on the Investigation Commissions, if the case starts, it is not a judicial case, but a court case, then the work of the commission is suspended, or if there is a judicial procedure that cannot even go into the process. It is now an interpretation that because there would therefore be a confirmation of the court's investigation, the process must be terminated. I'll remind you that the court has been involved in this business one way or another since May since the investigation took place. And why didn't you complain then? I'll remind you who's running this investigation. Is that the lead jump? No, I don't. This is run by the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb. And why does it matter? Because the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb can deal with its indictment only with these reports. It cannot deal with the responsibility of all of us, of you, of policy-making because it is not its jurisdiction, it is the jurisdiction of the USKOK. However, USKOK is not in charge of these investigations so there will be no theoretical persecution of politicians either. At least when you've arranged a job so that politicians judge politicians, let there be a commission as mutilated as its establishment, composition and everything else is compromised. But no. Now we're looking for a way to do it. It is simply an attempt to hide the escape from the responsibility of giving in to the Croatian judiciary Bajic, Cvitana, who I personally consider responsible for all this I have now cited, the architects of the Croatian judiciary, the core of the corruption around them, to let them do this in secret. Whatever! There will be no justice, nor can there be justice. You have to tell me who one of the founders of SCOCK is right now, Mr. Cwitan. I can't wait for him to come to me after two years, and he can't make it, to defend the 2015 report. Where is he? It's gonna be at midnight again, just like we talked here at 8.9 a.m. here. But then I couldn't, but the debate was concrete. As the whole of Croatia has been stolen and this assembly has been stolen, the parliamentary majority has been stolen, the government is standing on the basis of stolen MPs, respected MPs, political corruption, which is a great shame, voters have not given support to such a government. And finally, perhaps Mr. Plenkovic, you are a loser prime minister, but I will not allow Croatia to become a losing country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53331	Thank you. The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53332	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues. A year ahead of us is the government's year, based on a very thin parliamentary majority, in the manner of Kosanistra, which the parliamentary majority is made up of methods of breaking parties, buying one hand for 200 million kuna, and in a way that the judicial authorities see through the fingers of certain politicians, starting with the president of the CNS who fled the parliament after signing a shameful coalition, like that bird runner. Then, individual MPs, individual party secretary-in-chiefs who cheated on the disabled, and now allegedly amnesty, are free. Should we be surprised when the minister of justice was one and the same Drazen Bosnjakovic, who was a minister before, introduced rigid executive laws, allowed the robbery of Croatian citizens, and now even strengthens the pace, because as we can read from now on, Croatia's citizens will be taken 100% of the credits they have in banks, and not just, which shows that all this farce of alleged changes to the law was just another play for the public. Also, the public show is the arrest of the Agrokor administration, which was arrested right at the time when a weak parliamentary commission was due to begin, but even such an unimaginable threat to HDZ because they must hide the action of their former ministers at all costs. It's nice to see the police arrest suspects, but we all know how it ends in the end. Just remember the arrests of Sanader, Bandic, Mamic, Vidosevic, Cobankovic, Horvatincic, and their court cases. Because all those under HDZ eventually pass without conviction, without prison, and society is deprived of the possibility of catharsis, for a fresh start. There is, of course, a question of the current ministers, and I would only ask the prime minister one single question I hope to get an answer. And that's, what was the security assessment of the finance minister before he took over his duty? How does the prime minister, following such a situation comment on the fact that 93% of Croatian citizens do not believe in the judiciary? 93% that means that even HDZ voters don't trust this system. The prime minister, the prime minister, boasts about the successes in the economy, however, these economic successes depend on the fact that all European countries currently have GDP growth as well as the world's leading powers. But it does not mention the fact that Croatia is the last in Europe at this time according to its standard, that even Romania has overtaken us, and Bulgaria is rapidly approaching us. Croatia also has a deficit this year that has been increased steadily in the growth of export coverage. Employment is falling and we are here at the very bottom of Europe. The prime minister and HDZ government promised to increase employment to 68% we see that none of it has anything to do with it. We see that citizens have low wages and even lower pensions, allegedly... reforming them wanted to help but we see the effects of that only in richer citizens while 90% of Croatian citizens live the same way they did a year ago. Should any comment on the fact that 1/3 of Croatian citizens either have no pension or receive a pension of just a few hundred kunas. The number of blocked citizens as well as their debts is constantly growing. Croatia's bureaucracy is the most expensive and the worst in the European Union. And according to investments in science and education and scientific efficiency, Croatia is again at the very bottom of Europe. We have the slowest Internet in Europe, in the ranks of Kosovo. We have not eviction, but a stampede on the escape of young people leaving Croatia. Just imagine the fact that 332 thousand Croatian citizens live in Germany. It means more than the whole of Zagreb County, more than Međimurska, Koprivnica-križevačka and Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County lives in Germany than lives in the Republic of Croatia. And where are Switzerland, Ireland, Italy, Austria and other countries? Foreign policy better not to mention we've heard here from our colleagues that we've been fighting with all our neighbours, that we're without need buying weapons from the United States by trying to reach them just as we needlessly send soldiers to the Russian border, selling weapons to Saudi Arabia used for war in Syria and Yemen, which we violate both domestic legislation and international conventions. The health care industry lacks 5 billion kuna a year, and the demented minister announces a mobile tax to cover the budget hole. He announces taxes instead of bringing a national strategy against cancer because every day 40 people in Croatia die from this severe disease. The prime minister boasts of his successes, and we remember only what he promised us in the programme Reliablely based on which he won the elections last November 11th. It will reduce VAT to 24% and to 23%, ban the participations from the only home, introduce a system of scientific recruits, subsidized interest rates for the resolution of housing for young researchers, raise the allocations for science to 2%, redefine the position of professional and amateur sports clubs, establish an agrarian bank. Where is this Agrarian Bank? It will protect domestic production by introducing enhanced controls on import products, and when it is tried by Agriculture Minister Tolusic, then the prime minister slaps him publicly. Then they will introduce for all children a unique child's allowance. Please, who got that one-of-a-kind child's allowance? Do you have it? It's your program, gentlemen. The MPs aren't mine. You wrote that. He's going to introduce an alimony fund. Is there a fund after a year? Do you plan on introducing him this year that children get some kind of protection after their parents' divorce? 180 thousand jobs will be open. Where are those jobs? Loans will be granted from 350,000 kuna for the self-employment of young people. When were those loans approved and who? National pensions will be introduced at 40% minimum wage. When will they be introduced? Are you planning anything on it? Is there any law here in the Parliament, the government's session on the matter? Well, here's me from all those promises you said yourself. I don't see anything. If you like to boast that you are a Christian party and like to paint with priests, it would be good to remember the eighth commandment. There is indeed a huge, unsightly space for reforms in Croatia, but we have a government that is our own purpose, a government that is bound by fear of the loss of the parliamentary majority and a government that gives up any concrete move when it announces it whether it is a property tax, whether it is family law, the Istanbul Convention, the sale of HEP, the ransom, etc. The prime minister is telling us about some reduction in social conflicts, and HDZ politicians entertain us with plates, cursing Serbian mothers, beating women, giving controversial concessions, demanding shooting for the cattle communist. Primitiveism is spreading without any fences, and we are sworn by the Prime Minister in the work of the institutions. Therefore, we can conclude the policy of this government is hopeless, anemic, completely separate from real life and we could best describe it as a pile of dead blowers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53333	Thank you very much. Next in line is the club of SDSS MP Milorad Pupovac. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. After that, the club of representatives of the HNS is a respected representative of Milorad Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53334	Thank you, Vice President, Honorable Prime Minister, Vice President, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS has always sought whether we were in government or we were in opposition in our discussions, suggestions, suggestions, bill proposals and in these reports of this type to discuss and give their court constructively but also correctively. We've always acted independently whether we were part of the government. After all, it is our Croatian government, this is our Croatian Parliament. All in the interest of Croatian citizens as well today. A few months ago, when we made a decision precisely on the trail and our activities, our participation in the work of the Parliament when we were an opposition looking at positive trends that started with the new government not only through proposals of certain legal solutions, suggestions but just so as not to stop positive trends in the interest of Croatian citizens we decided to turn a new page in our history, the history of HNS is primarily based on the foundations we are liberal Democrats inclusive and we want to give our contribution and not miss the opportunity Croatia has. When we talk about the government's work report one part with full right, we'll take credit for it, too, at the HNS. When it comes to the state, the functioning of the state, the society, I'm going to paraphrasise a little bit, so as basic assumptions, I'm going to name one termology a favourable business environment. I think it's mentioned how much I've read and just a report as one of the essential preconditions for the positive trends and shifts that were primarily this year from economic indicators, social social etc. Political stability is what is crucial to us in the HNS and what has been too much and our decision to join the government. Note that HNS is an inclusive party and we are fed up with it, and I trust the Croatian citizens of trench fights and divisions to our and yours primarily think that we are here in the Parliament and the role of all of us is the well-being of all citizens. In order for the state to function primarily, we need to have finance, the budget from which it is financed. And when we ask ourselves who fills the budget, it's our citizens, it's our economy. So another key link, a strong economy and entrepreneurship. We are faced with a major problem of demographic policy or demographic negative trends in our society. The fact is that even after 20 and one years of watching 22 years after the last war operations, we haven't been able to stop moving out of the village, from rural areas, but also generally looking at demographic trends doesn't work out for us. We die as a society, we grow old, we're all smaller, and that's not good. The next link we consider inevitable and what is the role of the government, and the CNS will each contribute, but we have already as an opposition. There is primarily complete public administration reform through decentralisation, the balance of regional and rural development as a prerequisite for the uniform development of the Republic of Croatia. Most of the public administration, the interest of this government must be aimed at public administration services to citizens. Of course, the inevitable theme is education, the implementation of full educational reforms including curricular reform by creating a school for life, not a school for grades. As a party, we are focused on the future, but we also do not forget and put into another plan the preservation of values that are embedded in the foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is the primary unity of Croatian people, Croatian citizens and defenders in the Homeland War. Furthermore, the levels of human rights and freedoms achieved where certainly the inevitable factors are both the rights of national minorities and such an approach is the only way to build an incentive and social climate. The rule of law is often what we all mention when it's going to work. Yeah, the rule of law works, but there's a lot of room in this area to be more functional, more operational, more effective at the well-being of all our citizens. When I was talking about a strong economy, positive economic trends are seen which should continue and look for new ways, new models always over and never stop because we need to be aware that we could achieve a number of reforms although I don't like to use this word reform, but I haven't found an adequate version of whether it's transformation, change or whatever it is in the Croatian dictionary, because the word reform is unfortunately in recent times ago lost meaning in a political context. The reform of education, public administration reform, the creation of a favourable incentive environment for economic development will all contribute to the quality democratic recovery that we are all aware of and on the trail and work of this government must all contribute together. The HNS will, as it has been, be a constructive partner, but also a corrective partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53335	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the distinguished representative Davor Bernardic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53336	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament or Vice-President. You see, I'm still seeing you as president. Dear Croatian Prime Minister together with some ministers who stayed here to listen. It would be good if there were more, maybe all of them. Today's report on the work of the Croatian Government comes before the Croatian Parliament and it is time to look back at everything that has been made and the key word has not been made in Croatia in the last year. Today, too, the line should be drawn here and it should be made clear and loud that the Prime Minister is standing in place while Croatia is sliding down. No one believed nor could understand that the irresponsibility of Croatian politicians, individual governments and individuals in the years following the election of Croatian independence in the Homeland War, defended in the Homeland War, would result in us watching politics like this in 27 years after the conversion and privatisation, and I will dare say organised crime. But what is important to say when it comes to Croatia is that Croatia, regardless of all its problems, regardless of all the problems, regardless of all the sacrifices it has suffered by the incompetent, irresponsible governments, individuals, and these, in my humble opinion, the worst Croatian government, Croatia still knows. In Croatia live talented, creative people, people who are working and who have shown for years that they can not only succeed, but wherever they come to achieve their results. However, in order for people in Croatia to achieve their results, one of the key preconditions is for Croatia to become a country of equal opportunities. Unfortunately, today Croatia is far from the country of equal opportunities. This means that every child should have a kindergarten available, that pre-school education should be entered as early as possible, that education must be reformed, that children must learn all the life-threatening things they need to solve life problems, that they should be educated for work without being educated for the stock market, that Croatia has strong vocational schools but on the other hand reformed and quality colleges that provide people with a choice, a chance at a better job and a chance for a better life. Unfortunately, Plenkovic's government has stopped educational reform, that's true. Croatia must appreciate the efforts of those who invest in themselves to raise our children, raise and educate teachers, and therefore it is necessary that teachers' salaries in Croatia be higher than they are today. It is an imperative without which it will not be possible to run Croatia. Knowledge should be appreciated in Croatia, not cheating. I would remind you that Plenkovic's Government has until the last watchdog of the Minister of plagiarism at the place of Minister of Education and Science until the time when the Minister of the HNS quota was not replaced, so from the HNS quota achieved by political trade, political corruption which has not been recorded in Croatia so far. Croatia should encourage people to stay here, to move in, and not to move out, and we can only do so if we have better and better quality jobs to encourage smart investment in Croatia and if we have a better place to make a whole and systematic housing policy without which it will not be possible to provide young people and their families with a roof over their heads. Unfortunately, Plenkovic's government has helped and decided to help banks instead of people get to their first apartment by subsidising bank loans for a single layer of people who report first. Plenkovic's government also hit the tourist sector, the most promising sector in Croatia by raising VAT in tourism, and what are the results of the billing can best bear witness to the fact that companies are given a deadline for adjustment, so new ones working in the tourism sector are now starting new companies and avoiding that VAT payment. Our message is to return VAT to the level of 13% and help the most promising sector in Croatia grow and develop. Croatia should become a country that protects and values its own, which protects and values its producers, which protects and values its farmers, which lowers VAT on agricultural products that are dominantly produced in Croatia, which can lower VAT on repro material used in that agriculture. Croatia should also become a country that protects and in that part of its national interests. Unfortunately, I am sorry that Mr. Plenkovic is mocking Croatian agricultural producers. Croatia needs reforms, that is clear. So far, this government has not even started, let alone made a reform in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia should ensure equal pensions for old and new pensioners, for those older than 62 and for those younger than 62. Our proposal is in the process, to protect these people before the problem escalates, do not say that you have no time, do not say that you have no intention, do not say that you will solve the matter because everything you have said and everything you have unfortunately promised for Croatia you have not done. The Croatian health system is in crisis, three times longer waiting lists than they were leaving last government, three times the debt in health care and is now reaching almost nine billion kuna levels. Nine billion kunas in health care are threatening to collapse one complete system. Plenkovic's government unfortunately has done nothing on this issue, in terms of health care and in particular health care for those most in need of that healthcare. They're pensioners, they're the ones who need quick, urgent and timely medical attention. Croatia needs to restore dignity for 50,000 people who work in Croatia for minimum wage, feed their families and barely join the end. Plenkovic's Government rejected the minimum wage law on which the minimum wage should be 60% of the average salary so directly rejecting our proposal has reversed the life and perspective of those people working for the church in Croatia, for this existential minimum. Plenkovic's government also hit the poorest citizens through the rise in electricity prices to help those who sell electricity through renewable energy sources and in one here already today a very clear but controversial Cetina project in which a team that sells renewable energy sources under a project that is not really Plenkovic's government has entered a new conflict of interest and this is a conflict of interest from the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister. There is no one in Croatia today who knows about this conflict of interest and I believe that these days the public's interest will be even greater. Croatia should be a country of equal people, equal people regardless of religion, regardless of nation, regardless of gender, regardless of age. Unfortunately, the review of the Istanbul Convention on the fight against violence against women who have already been referred to by SDP for six months in the procedure, which has been on the agenda of this Croatian Parliament for six months, which has been refused to discuss best how to deal with violence against the women of Plenkovic and his government. Gentlemen, you have a proposition. You can put it in the process tomorrow, but on Friday, we can vote on ratification of the Istanbul Convention, you don't have to consider the proposal for another six months and say what should be done, which shouldn't actually create a big deal of it with one single result so that it doesn't end up being brought. Instead, he was sent to the procedure as a proposal, as a draft Family Law which insulted many people living in Croatia, many people, many individuals, their families and who, according to the members of that law, returns us back to the Middle Ages. Croatia must not be divided by religion, national, age or sexual basis. It is a message to us and it should be the basis of modern European civil Croatia, Croatia which clearly knows the values, Croatia which respects the rights and freedom of the individual, Croatia that leads to interest in all its citizens regardless of the differences that each of us has. Croatia must protect its interests in economic and international terms. I remind you that on Christmas Eve it is glorious when we supported it from the SDP and many other Croatian parties presented a plan or announced purchase of shares of INA from MOL and thus the return of INA to Croatian hands. The day of this ransom has not come, the day of today's INA issue is the result of more than clear, clean and crystal clear. Zero. Zero was made on INA. But also tax reform. Tax reform has further deepened the gap between the richer and poorer and tax reform is as a reform that your Government has implemented to Mr Plenkovic the only reform that has actually hit the caterers, on the most promising tourism sector but has also hit culturalists, free artists and scientists living on their own. Croatia must also protect its interests on land but also at sea, although at the meeting, one single meeting with representatives of the opposition, which it has organised in its already one-year term, the Prime Minister himself called on the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic and assured us that everything is fine, that Miro Cerar is one reasonable man with whom he can agree, that a bilateral problem between Croatia and Slovenia is needed, that it will certainly come to this solution, that we cannot agree to the results of the disputed arbitration, but that also Prime Minister Cerar will come to Zagreb, the meeting did not come. Croatia today does not resolve open issues with Slovenia, Croatia today does not know what to do with arbitration, Croatia still has wire on the Croatian-Slovenian border. It's not just Slovenia. There is also Italy, a dispute over the export of oak columns, there are relations with Hungary in joining the OECD that never existed before, there are relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and other countries and what we can rightly conclude that our relations with neighbours have never been worse since Plenkovic's government led them. Croatia should be a safe country, a safe country for all its inhabitants, for all those who decide to come to Croatia to live or rest and a system of homeland security in their pilot project coordination from the Minister of Defence himself is already scheduled for the first text, to put an end to the fire in which the story of responsibility for the ceasefire has been removed and the focus of responsibility has been removed from the real problem, with a constant cause, with a real condition on one bar and tending whether or not you will resign the defence minister and the Prime Minister. Balance simple, the system completely failed. Croatia should become the country people move into and not move out of. Over 100,000 people have left Croatia in the last two years. It's based on what's called. The Committee for Slavonia, the Slavonia Project or whatever it is called another in a series of powerful commissions of this government that all have the same result, which is zero, pure zero. You care and we can say this responsibly today when we look at this data for people who leave Croatia, you care about those people who go following plates in Ireland with diplomas in their pocket, and that's what your officials, senior HDZ officials, are ordering and confirming. It's a wide field, just go. Croatia should be a responsible country, a responsible country in which citizens will trust institutions, in which we will build trust in institutions, in which we will restore trust in institutions, and this will not be achieved if citizens see liberating convictions for criminals. If people do not see the responsibility of the person involved in the financial transactions of Agrokora, Minister Maric, but no matter what, he continues to do his job and Prime Minister Plenkovic protects him. Croatia will not restore trust in institutions as long as the law is passed... Only one company in which Todorov is given six months to pack his suitcases and leave our country, in which at night meetings in the government, before the writing of Lex Agrokor, Knighthead is agreed by a scavenger fund aimed at earning money on Agrokor, in Croatian citizens as much as 70%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As in the 1990s, you've made a conversion and privatisation for the chosen, for 200 selected families, and today you're making foreign funds for the pockets of those selected. It took you three months to establish the Agrokor Committee, and now you've made it very clear in your speech that you want to abolish it. I call upon you to bear witness amongst the first to the Committee on Agrokor, about the truth in Agrokor. The truth about Agrokor must not be forgotten, the truth about Agrokor is yet to be determined. These today I have asked you questions that I have not received absolutely any answers, questions that interest the Croatian public and what time it is for Croatia and its citizens to get a clear and unequivocal answer. First question I'll give you again as well as the rest. Why have you waited so long for the DORH audit and action? Why was the review in Agrokor itself so late on purpose that all evidence was cleaned up in Agrokor? Why did Todorov take six months to pack his bags? Your former prime minister made it clear he got funding from the same Agrokor of his mega-project on Blackbeard. It's clear and visible and just don't answer me that HDZ has nothing to do with Agrokora. You also did not answer who lied to your finance minister Mr. Maric or your commissioner in Agrokor Mr. Ramljak? Answer me. And who wrote Lex Agrokor? What are the links of the writer lex Agrokor to you personally or to someone from the government? That's all the questions you don't want to answer. But what I am calling you if you do not want to answer is I am sorry that there is no Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Dalic, perhaps best to answer, because she is judging and leading the Croatian government. Croatia does not need to face the past, Croatia does not need a commission to face a past that is unable to face itself. What Croatia needs is to face the present and face numerous accumulated projects that this Croatian government has not touched, let alone solved. Finally, once we draw the line, we can see the full balance of this government. 100,000 emigrated, 50,000 people with no chance of minimum wage, electricity collection for Croatian poverty, tax impact on more than 11,000 hosts, delayed better education for more than 100 thousand children in Croatia, hiding, muttering, tampering with political responsibility and hiding the truth about Agrokor and the debt of Agrokor as a sword over the head of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know what you were talking about except that you weren't talking about reality. It's time to go back to reality. This is not a science fiction, it is time to land and admit that this is a government of conflict of interest that protects interests, private interests of Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, this government is also a government and inaction, delaying, giving up, but your government, Mr. Plenkovic, is a government and hiding the truth about Agrokor, tampering and scrambling, unfortunately. You are the prime minister as Croatia slides backwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53337	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the next one will speak for the Honorable Representative Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53338	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, it was just over a year after this ninth assembly of the Croatian Parliament was established after the early parliamentary elections and a new Croatian government was elected. Meanwhile, political circumstances have changed, a new parliamentary majority has been formed in the Croatian Parliament, some new ministers have been elected. Given the changed political circumstances, I think it's fair to say that over the past period we've had two governments each of which is recognizable by its essential characteristics. The situation that marked the end of one, and the beginning of another government is the Agrokor case. In the moments when MOST began its political action as well as the moments when we entered the executive power, we were driven by the drive to change the way in which the problem was solved in Croatia and the system it manages. We don't think this system is designed to measure an ordinary man, but he's asphyxiating and mocking him, which proves an eclectic example of the recent syncope. We feel that silence is no longer an option, and that is why we have been willing to take responsibility to change the way we manage, to change the way we deal with the problem, that this system really is to the extent of all of us and to be just because we really think that only transparency and truth can cure society if we care about it even though we are as politicians of its servant. After two and a half decades, we have a chance to clear up with one bad, rotten and nastular system embodied in Agrokor company. Finally, it happened that after years of silence of politics and institutions that refused to see this elephant in the greenhouse, we began to get answers about our political and economic elites, about corruption, about their beginning and their rise, and this is an unexplainable story of eternal transition, corruption, clientelism, conjecture, protection that needs to be enlightened by the end of the day. This is also the story of our economic system and how it actually worked by creating an atmosphere of uneven business opportunities, a monopoly on the market and a culture of non-payment by destroying small farmers and craftsmen along the way. With that attitude today, we need to clear ourselves up. The responsibility is on all of us. If we do so, we will lay sound new foundations for the Croatian economy in which there will be a free market, healthy competition that will not benefit individual interests and will bring long-term economic prosperity and jobs. The Croatian state, as many speakers have already said before, faces today one of the biggest problems that could affect a country with emigration. By leaving young people it loses its substance and is therefore also the responsibility and obligation of all of us to design and offer concrete measures of demographic policy as soon as possible. That is why MOST will propose independent lists in the coming months its own demographic policy measures but we will also support any good initiative in this respect regardless of which side it came from. But let's not fool ourselves, because emigration and depopulation have deep resources and deep roots, there are deep reasons why we can't get rid of it by resorting to only transparent solutions. Young people feel infallible that today's Croatia does not offer them the security, the certainty that is needed to stay there. They see that their initial positions are not the same. Not everyone has the same opportunity for good education, not to have access to the market on equal terms. That they don't have the same opportunities to advance, that the state administration and the judiciary aren't equally available to everyone, that they don't all have the same opportunity to build their own home and raise a family. I'm actually talking about the inequality of opportunities that burden this society and make it impossible to develop. It is about a system that resupplys Croatia and the MOST will fight against this status quo and will advocate that everyone in Croatia has the same opportunity to start, to succeed and to develop for themselves. It is a good time to take big and essential steps to convince young people and families to stay in Croatia. And that is why I also think that it is time to start with a reform of education that will leave out the outdated concepts and allow children to be skillful in the new information age. The reform of the education system has continued the task of all of us who can only be achieved through exclusive and dedicated work. As before, MOST will advocate transparency in politics, in state administration, justice and elsewhere. Transparency is the strongest weapon against corruption and clientism and needs to be achieved everywhere. Transparency will allow the public to see and identify possible corrupt risks and behaviours. The insistence on transparency we started with the opening of the archives, we will continue with the Investigation Commission around Agrokor. The fight for transparency and the fight against corruption is the goal of which we remain permanently committed. MOST will also promote policies related to state and public administrations. And we believe that it is finally time for Croatia to be an effective service for citizens and especially entrepreneurs. In his term in office in the government, MOST prepared projects with the help of officials and in cooperation with experts that are supposed to successfully reform public administration. It is projects worth 80 million kunas financed from European funds that so far collect dust in the Ministry of Administration drawers. These projects relate to the establishment of monitoring of the work of state and local officials, measuring their effectiveness and rewarding or punishing them according to their labour performance. The purpose of these projects and the digitization of the work of the public administration is to launch us into the 21st century at last. The MoST of Independent Lists, which took place as a political party from the local level, will stand for the functional and fiscal decentralisation of Croatia. We therefore advocate the provision of certain public services and powers to municipalities and cities that are closest and best aware of their problems. On the other hand, it should be made clear to everyone that when you give more responsibility, you should have better control mechanisms. That is why I would like to point out that the government's initiative to make mayors, mayors and mayors immeasurable, and thus politically irresponsible, I find an unacceptable blow to local democracy. And such a measure is not proportionate to the objective of achieving the contrary will of the people in May's local elections. In particular, I would like to stress that decentralisation of the assumptions of demographic renewal of all areas of Croatia and only through decentralisation can a more equidistant population and economic development be achieved. Only one city, Zagreb, is currently dominant. In Zagreb there is a lack of kindergarten while in the rest of Croatia, kindergartens and schools are increasingly empty, the homes of health are becoming more derutative. Croatia's policy must take care of the fair distribution of demographic, economic and fiscal capacities. Recently in the Croatian Parliament, we discussed a new Law on the financing of local and regional self-government, we support the law as a first step in fiscal decentralisation, we will continue to support all good initiatives that will maintain a tendency to decentralisation. The Most will advocate reform in the judiciary. After only a year and a half, MOST's team managed to financially stabilise the justice system and began working on a series of laws that really needed to represent the reform package. In the term of office of the Most, the ministry prepared and launched valuable projects for further digitisation of the judicial system. I'll just remind you briefly of the enrolment, e-enrollment in the garret. Similar quality initiatives MOST continued in the ministry, such as the Law on the State Judicial Council, which includes the system of control and publication of property cards of judges on the web. We call on the government to continue working on these projects because the need for real reform of the judiciary today is greater than ever. Public trust in the judiciary is low, if it even exists. I won't even talk about reputation. You can insist that such anomalies are recognized in time, that steps be taken so that they do not happen in the future. Since his establishment of the Most Independent Lists in the centre of his interest, he has set the need for changes in electoral legislation. At the beginning of this year 2017, amendments to the law on local elections were adopted on our initiative where we finally managed to fight for something that is completely normal, so that people with criminal acts cannot run and other things remain intact in the procedure. We asked to increase the impact of the preferential vote, we believe that the electoral system continues to suffer from democratic deficit syndrome. I expect you to let him go, that he will not happen for your sake that even after all these years, the citizens will not have the opportunity to choose who they want but who the parties put in place. Show that you are democratic and MOST will continue to work tirelessly to achieve that goal. Let me just say a few more words about how we protect public goods. I'll remind you of the famous concession case on our most famous beach of the Golden War. I'm going to remind you of the unplanned devastation of Plitvice Lakes National Park, by lawless construction. Dear fellow MPs, we were here a little while ago to discuss and pass the concession law. Then I remember there was a heated debate in the Parliament, what was only a shock, and it shocked the way you passed that law. I remember that the vote was postponed, that an hour later, or before the vote was put in, and that voting point that you didn't tell anyone, you said in all the media that it wasn't going to happen, that we were going to go to the 3rd reading. For an hour you only beat and voted the Law on concessions without notice and in such a way returned to the vote and because that day was an arbitration decision with Slovenia and that was not to be noticed. I'm just asking you, are we in the Assembly playing games? Are these games for you? I am truly afraid that it will happen when the forest laws come in this way, about the agricultural land that the government is preparing. And that's why I think I have to keep my eyes wide open so it doesn't happen that for some of the laws you're voting these in the Parliament we read in the People's Newspaper. And in that sense, I would like to say once again that the Most will advocate the protection of public goods that must be made available to all and on equal terms. Dear fellow MPs, yesterday was the day of the fight against poverty. Do you remember your fellow citizens who live in poverty and who are exposed to poverty? Do you wonder what it's like for them to collect directorial costs? But before the overheads, I just have to mention that this government at the time when the executive law was passed refused the amendments that were most needed to help them. Let us only remember the recent collection of electricity to accommodate certain stakeholders. The easiest argument for that, we had to, Wreath signed, so I don't think we had to. I think we could have made a difference. And that is why I am taking the opportunity to announce to you that the Most will soon present measures and also those legislative ones to address the problem of energy poverty. It is about the measures that our experts have started working at the Ministry of Environment and Energy and which are designed to help the average household, and I ask you to support us in this. Finally, I want to repeat that MOST Independent Lists is a factor that aims to act towards the common good, act for fighting, for transparency, against corruption. And no one can tell me today that the concept of transparency in politics two years ago and today is the same. It just means that you can succeed if you have enough will and enough desire. And this is a message to all those who at this point are going to go out and I'm telling them to stay, fight, let those who have made this situation go out. And it would be very fun to watch the buses of all those directors of institutions, all those politicians in the last 20 years that have led to this situation. They should be on those buses, young people should stay. I really believe that only by such an action can Croatia make Croatia desirable for the life in which people will want to stay. And we as the Most of those principles will not give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53339	Thank you. The last one is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53340	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Vice President, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ representative club will support this year's report by the government of the Republic of Croatia, which we are discussing the day before the government of Andrej Plenkovic marks the first anniversary. In 19.10 last year, the government was appointed on the proposal of the prime minister then, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. In preparation for this debate, I also saw the government's programme, which was then presented for the 2016-2020 term and which was then defined by 4 fundamental objectives in the government's work. So I'm going to repeat them, it's achieving stability and lasting economic growth, creating new and quality jobs for stopping and moving and demographic recovery, and social justice and solidarity. If we were to analyse your report and the government's work over the past year, then we can say that the government has been more consistent in meeting these fundamental objectives set out in the programme itself for the term of office. And I will show this consistency, i.e., the government's insistence on solving and meeting these four fundamental objectives, in several areas where I believe that the government has shown and passed a test when it comes to meeting these objectives. First of all, I think that, that the success of a government can be measured on its contribution, economic growth and development, to ensure better standards for our citizens, to ensure, to create new jobs, to care for the economy, because that is the basis for possible, better, social upgrade, demographic renewal, stopping and eviction, opening jobs, as I said, etc. In order to meet this, that the government could meet the priority set in its mandate, one of the biggest challenges, was the problem and the crisis over Agrokor before the government. Today, when we look at the situation that the government has found after six months, then it seems to me that there is a collective amnesia of the problem Agrokor represented for the entire Croatian economy, for the entire Croatian financial system. And as the Prime Minister mentioned in his report this morning four possible variants, which the government had the opportunity to intervene in the Agrokor problem, according to me and us, at the HDZ Club, have been chosen the best way. I have already said several times that for me it is impeccable intervention, one government, the Croatian government and the best intervention in the Croatian economy, from the position of independence of the Republic of Croatia to today. In fact, the fact is that in the legal space of the Republic of Croatia there was no adequate legal tool, both in how and in which to intervene, the Law on extraordinary management in trading societies of systemic importance in the Republic of Croatia was exactly the tool and model of how and how to enable one serious crisis, one difficult situation in the largest Croatian private company, whose fracture threatened to collapse the financial and economic system of the Republic of Croatia, was the best, most qualitative response. We should visit that it was a time when Agrokor was blocked, when a request was already filed with the opening of bankruptcy, when it threatened to end up on the street 50,000 employees, when there was a very large number of small suppliers, the OPGs, and that almost 150,000 employees were employed in those suppliers and we were aware that, therefore, the collapse of this great concert would practically collapse and the upcoming tourist season, since the whole problem had escalated around Easter. So, with the Emergency Administration Act adopted here in the Assembly, we have answered in the best possible way, and today we can testify, that they are preserved on one side of the job, that it is possible for companies in the system to continue to operate, that jobs are preserved in those suppliers and small businesses, and also large suppliers of Agrokor are of course 50,000 employees, and that it was simply a model that was affected, but which did not come to an end. The end of this request and its implementation will be a settlement between the creditors on the further fate of Agrokor. We are aware of the fact that Agrokor, more the way he is today, can't exist, but that he will make a decision about it, yet the believers of the concert itself. What happened parallel to that, the work of an extraordinary administration, we here in the Parliament are being cornered. Having fun, will, won't, when we're going to set up an investigative commission. We claimed then that the work of the investigative committee would interfere with the reconnaissances that had already begun to be conducted by the State Attorney's Office today after the independent auditory house had given a consolidated report to Agrokor, we said it would agree and we agreed to set up an investigative committee. In the meantime, we were aware of this, that the state's attorney's office opened the procedure and that very quickly, according to the state of affairs in that company and what is happening around it, it is very likely that there will be an open investigation, and by the power of the investigation, as the law provides, the work of the investigating committee should be shut down. It is our position, we stand on it and it supports what we have already and then said, and what the morning diameter repeated, and that is that all that interests us as parliamentary representatives, as politicians, we can conduct through the work of the parliamentary working bodies, and even through the plenary session. So, all the circumstances, which we are interested in and which we might find out, could know the investigative commission, could be through the thematic sessions on the work of the parent working bodies, only Agrokor, and also through the plenary session. Therefore, we remain open, we at the HDZ Club from the first day we argue that there are no problems with the investigative committee and that we have found that all the circumstances are being examined and about the occurrence, as well as about the recent events. Another important thing that we at the HDZ Club support the work of this government is the contribution to the growth of our fellow citizens' standards. There have already been several times here to discuss tax reform, to dispute the achievement of tax reform. We at the HDZ Club argue that the reform tax has made a significant contribution to GDP growth in the Republic of Croatia. When the finance minister here in the assembly represented tax reform, he said that by reaching tax reform, its impact on GDP growth would be around 0.5%. We claimed then that the implementation of the tax reform is an additional 560 thousand Croatian citizens, the taxpayer of income tax, to be exempt from income tax. At the moment in the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of 2 million and 750 thousand Croatian citizens who are taxpayers of income tax, millions of them and 500 were released. For a million and 800 thousand of those same citizens who are taxpayers of income tax, based on this reform, there has been an increase in salaries and is not to be ignored, it is a major achievement of this reform. At the same time the overall profit tax rate was reduced from 20 to 18%, and at the same time for small entrepreneurs and farmers the reduced tax rate on profits from 20 to 12%. All this together and the other 14 laws that we adopted in that tax reform at the end of last year allowed GDP to grow for the first 6 months of 2.7 this year. It is possible to raise the average salary by 5%, and now it amounts to around 5 951 kuna. At the same time, we made a decision to raise the minimum wage, so when Mr Bernardic mentioned that the SDP club had given a proposal for a minimum wage law, I would remind him that after a month of work by the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, there was a greater increase in the minimum wage than the Government of Zoran Milanovic, the SDP did in 4 years. Therefore, tax reform has also led to an increase in other incomes in the Republic of Croatia, and I am not saying that today it is strange to say that there has been an increase in price, electricity, electricity, when the tax reform reduced VAT to the supply of electricity from 25% to 12%, and thus there has been a decrease in the price, and the price correction due to the promotion of renewable energy sources has not yet reached the price level since last year. Therefore, these are arguments that speak of the government's work. The fact that there was an increase in pension by a million and 200 thousand of our pensioners on average by 2.75%. So these are all data that indicate that this tax reform was justified, that it was good and that it enabled a number of measures that also encouraged the Croatian economy. In this context, it is certainly the best tourist season that has largely relied on the work of the Government. When I say that she relied on the work of the Government, I also think about the government's activities to continue with the business of Agrokor, whose work was largely dependent on the fate of the Croatian tourist season on the one hand, and on the other hand through the resolution of border crossings with Slovenia, with BiH, where targeted controls have been defined with the system, which enabled this easier entry into Croatia, etc. etc. The tourism season with 100 million overnight stays, with 17 million visitors, with 11 billion euros in total revenue from the tourist season, contributed to all these macroeconomic indicators I mentioned earlier. In this context, and from such tax reform and government activity, what we have heard before was that the deficit of the state budget for last year was 0.8%, and that the first 6 months of this year we testify that Croatia has a surplus of the general government budget for the first time. And that's about taking care of public finances, that's about great macroeconomic indicators, which then clearly, allow the public debt to fall and all that together defines this government as the one that cares on one hand and the financial macroeconomic indicators, clearly and then on the standard of our citizens. In this respect, from such financial indicators, such budgeting enabled demographic measures that were mentioned earlier, and in the case of an increase in birth benefits for the first 6 months, then for unemployed births, as well as for employees for the other 6 months where increases of over 50% are compared to existing ones. That is why I find it a little strange and it also acts as a statement that with housing policy in the part of the realisation of the House Loan Subsidisation Act goes to Croatian banks. To not believe it is the fact that all young Croatian citizens are and young citizens are also thought of by people up to 45 years old, so for all of these Croatian citizens, and there seem to me, if I'm to be confirmed by the Minister of Civil Engineering, about 2,400 of them have applied to this system, regardless of whether they eat first, whether they are last, everyone will enter the system of subsidising residential loans. Therefore, not that it was not in favour of the banking system in Croatia, but it was going towards one of the measures that clearly took place in the system of demographic reconstruction and helping young families in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, what I would also like to mention is that we have also brought in the strategy of the spatial organisation of the Republic of Croatia which defines and sees the even development of Croatia through the development of infrastructure corridors. So in that sense, I would mention three great things that happen at this point through the work of the Government and are closely linked to the use of European funds, that is what I would particularly point out. The ability to absorb European funds that we can observe through three major projects. It is a project by the Pelješko Bridge, where it is possible for the 420m-euro project to be financed by European funds with 357m euros. On the other hand, the completion of the road or railway line Koprivnica-Križevci where it is about 210m euros and the clear construction of Dubrovnik airport, where it is also around 180m euros is used funds from European funds. So and on that part, and that's... The European funds, the realisation of European funds, the government has shown this effectiveness, because here, after 3 years, we have almost reached half of the 10 billion euro contracted, as foreseen by 2020. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the work of this government should be greatly appreciated in that segment. What is also very important to mention, which is this regional development that allows, as I mentioned earlier, a strategy of spatial planning, the realisation of large infrastructure projects, but on the other hand, measures by the Croatian Government that go on more evenly to the development of the Republic of Croatia. I would mention the project Slavonia, which would allow the east of Croatia, which after the Homeland War was the most affected by the war itself, and also the crisis that later took place, and therefore is full support for the Slavonia project, but also a new law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, which will now be left entirely to local self-government units, where it is being killed. Therefore, it will allow for the fiscal strength of local self-government units when further measures are put forward to support areas and care for islands, then we clearly say that this government is very concerned about the even development of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk more, here, and this will soon end, about internal policy and national security, to welcome it that after a long, long years of bringing a national security strategy, that this week here in the Croatian Parliament, we will discuss the National Security Act, where our goal is to strengthen and restore trust in the Croatian military, but also to enable the Croatian defence industry to be a generator for the development of the Republic of Croatia. In this context, we have already heard that the seventh contingent of the Croatian Army, which was sent to the NATO mission in Afghanistan, was practically fully equipped with Croatian weapons and equipment. On this trail we see clearly and clearly, both the overall functioning and operation of the Croatian military, and in this sense the activities of the Croatian government. Finally, on behalf of the club, he would also answer several questions that were mentioned earlier, whose answers we heard were completely guilty, unfounded, I also said about housing loans, I also said about the price of electricity, I also said about the minimum wage, but I would drive there to the Istanbul Convention. When from the ranks of the SDP we hear the accusations on the account that we are not still here in the Croatian Parliament ratified the Istanbul Convention, then I would remind my colleagues from the SDP that this convention was adopted in 2012, if Croatia had become a ratification of that convention in 2014, that you had two years of respect for the same Istanbul Convention, here in the Croatian Parliament, and not now to talk about how we do not want it, and you had, I say, almost 4 years since it was adopted in Istanbul, it is here to ratify and then that story would be finished. This is not how we said it, and we haven't heard it from the HDZ order that it won't be ratified, but all in its time, when we in the ruling majority consider it necessary to realize it. I have a surreal question addressed to the Prime Minister about why the DORH reconnaissance and investigations take a long time. I think that we are a democratic state that rests on the principle of trinity of power, where we know what the role of the legislative authority is, here in the Parliament, the role of the government and the role of the judiciary. The last person in Croatia was the Prime Minister who should be asked why the DORH works one way or another. I think that we are, to all ends, the independence of the Croatian judiciary in this regard, the independence of the state's attorney's office. It will, when it evaluates itself, determine the relevant facts, make a decision, when, in what way, in which extent, it will open an investigation into Agrokor. And finally, here goes Mr. Petrov, told us Mr. Petrov in the closing statement that the unprecedented procedure for the adoption of the Law on concessions, as brought by this assembly. I would remind him that this Law was also directed by this Government in a debate with the interested public, that in Parliament twice, the law passed 2 readings, that he and the First Reading Bridge unanimously supported this same law and that this law was adopted in the ordinary procedure in the Croatian Parliament. So, let me finish, my time is up, and the HDZ Club will definitely support the government's work for these reasons, that is, this year's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53341	Thank you very much. He would now, in accordance with his Rules of Procedure, ask Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, the Prime Minister, to submit a final presentation that could take up to 20 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53342	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I thank you for your interventions during the debate on the annual report, on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, over the past 12 months. I noticed a new practice, obviously there are representatives of clubs here who don't even want to welcome a representative of the government, which seems to me to be a new practice, a new dimension of the culture of dialogue in Croatian political life. We've recorded that, and we'll take care of it in the future. As for the interesting presentations some of the clubs have had, I will try to look back on them, of course not all the questions, but some of them in this final word. First, the report presented is based on facts, it is based on what has been done, on what is under way and on what will happen, with reference to all key topics in Croatian society that are on the agenda at times when you are in opposition, whether you are in power and you trust Croatian citizens to make decisions and to what they should react to. The first remark concerns criticism of whether the government, the government, is democratic, legitimate, why it is there. Let's strip it all the way. Our electoral system and proportional system in which MPs are elected in 10 electoral units, four plus eight minority representatives, on special lists plus fixed, limited number of our representative for Croats outside Croatia. I will remind the public of the SDP blackmail on the occasion of the amendment to the Constitution before joining the EU, when these amendments were done so that no matter how many people will participate in the elections, the maximum number of Croatians outside Croatia because of the SDP's policy at the time, only three. If we change voting technology I am sure that more of our people, Croats outside Croatia would be happy to participate in the elections and I hear that whether I am in BiH, whether I am in the United States, so this is one topic that we should also say something about. When the elections end in our electoral system there is what is inevitable and these are agreements after the electoral coalitions. No matter how anyone and how they run in the election. The mandates are inalienable, you know very well, it is the alphabet of Croatian politics. The fact that some when going to the common lists do pre-election coalitions with provisions that might limit the concept of the inalienance of the mandate is another issue. After the election, those parties who have entered and representatives form their clubs, form their work in parliament and have full freedom to choose with whom and how they will co-ordinate and who they will support. The HDZ is like the party that won the elections, relatively largely, the system is such that it is very, very difficult for someone to get more than 75 MPs in this election system, coalition in good faith with the Most, in good faith, responsiblely, thoughtfully, with the goal of having a stable government, a stable majority, the number of signatures I had and took to the president over a year ago, was then 91, could have been and more, we didn't want to make a consensus that could have reached almost 100 MPs at that moment, for that there was no need. Our policy and our attitude towards the coalition partner at the time was more than correct, transparent, clear communication, involvement, arrangements, dialogue, everything. But what happened is something called loyalty, teamwork, sharing common goals, previous issues, questions in which if you have people who are on the same team who don't want to raise a hand for a colleague from the same team, it's as if you're deliberately pushing auto goals into football. And then there's no dilemma, then all the previous conversations, all the previous deals get absurd. And that's why this co-operation couldn't continue. And I'm going to keep saying that, it's part of a political alphabet that maybe the parties that have a protest protesting character at this point in time don't perceive but that's it, there's no other great philosophy or any other agenda. And I want to make that clear again. As for the election of other parties, other parliamentary deputies, whether they will afford Croatia the 3rd parliamentary elections in less than 24 months or they will consider and say what institutions they are, what parties that function so consistently must seek voter confidence three times in less than 2 years. So I think that the HNS decision is one of the wiser, far-reaching, more concrete and constructive decisions in the Croatian parliamentary life that we have seen over a very long period. The message that the right centre is co-ordinating with the peoples, liberal Democrats is an important political message for the culture of dialogue in Croatia. For exactly what I said a year ago and now it's a reduction of tension, hand-to-hand, conversation, dialogue. And that is why I highly appreciate the HNS move, and I would be glad that the entire HNS, then, saw that message and that he recognized the possibility of co-operation because the parliamentary majority would be bigger too. But even so, the parliamentary majority will be stable, coherent with valuable contributions and minority representatives and other colleagues in the Croatian Parliament who make up this majority. And I want to underline that, it is a very important message for Croatian democracy, to understand what political stability implies for economic growth and development, which it implies as a signal to investors, which it means for the perception of Croatia by international financial institutions, which means for the perception of Croatia by global credit rating agencies. Think about it. Consider also when your representatives in the public space seek to criticise the Minister of Finance send messages that go contrary to the national interests of Croatia, think about it a little bit, take care of the contexts spoken. As for several, indeed bizarre comments addressed to the government regarding the functioning of the judiciary, the work of the DORH, the work of the police. It may seem incredible to you, but the truth is next. My government, not just four vice presidents, or two vice presidents and two vice presidents who are here or anyone else in the government, does not affect the work of the police or the work of the DORH, let alone the work of judges. And listen in today's debate, I consider comments on the inadequacy of judgments not only politically missed and inappropriate but I can compare them to those ideas that the leader of the opposition party had when he spoke about that in our system of parliamentary democracy, the president or president of the Republic should have approximately a prerogative to elect three ministers. These are remarks at that level, these are remarks at the level of the debate that are not even for the Cavanaugh revolutionaries. It is my comment on your adjudications to the functioning of the judiciary at the moment when before the Croatian Assembly we discuss the report on the work of the executive government, the Government. We have to repeat that alphabet, because obviously we haven't all mastered it. It is very important for Croatian voters and citizens to see, it is very important. As far as Agrokora is concerned, it seems to me that part of politicians and parties do not want to see what the government has prevented by its activists. If I could be some producer in the film so there's a big screen and now we just have a simulation of what would have happened if it hadn't been for the Emergency Administration Act so you can see what it looks like when a big company like this has a system of 73 companies operating in Croatia, acting in neighbouring countries suddenly comes under bankruptcy legislation. What would that look like? What do you think? In order to reflect this on workers, employees, on the principle of solidarity, on the state budget, on the functioning of these companies in neighbouring countries. What about them? What about the supply through the retail chain the largest in Croatia, for example, here are colleagues Bauk on Croatian islands. How do you think that would work? Would this tourist season Mr. Bacic was now talking about in terms of numbers be so good or not? Do you think that would be good for the Croatian economy, for our financial system. Fortunately we took responsibility, we offered you then to participate in the process, you refused. You're a colleague of Bernardić, I love the wishes, I love Kraseva's chocolate, I go to the cabbages, you put your engagement on the selfie then, on the open line. I don't know how many calls there were, what the effects of that open line were. While you were doing this, we met up in a somewhat populist way with the most serious problem Croatia faced after the aggression in Croatia. There's no dilemma at all. We took political risk. We shouldn't have, at least I have nothing to do with Agrokora myself, or anything that's happened over the years, but I have political responsibility. I recognize the moment. I'm saying this is a moment where we can't act like we're not doing anything. We need to be serious. But we need to be serious in a way that when we comment we check the facts. Let's not translate Bloomberg's agency news about what, the state of Agrokor says someone in Moscow, and then it becomes criminal charges. We don't do that, no. There's no proclaiming witches, no sticking labels in advance. There's only a verification of the facts. He has a thorough work of an auditory house that goes into detail. Only after that can you bring some categorical attitudes, otherwise not. It is the responsibility of the authorities and it is the distinction between the political choices that are in front of Croatian people today whether they will choose those who want the theatre quickly. We solved it, we watched the movie, so we solved it. It's up to us. Or those who, in the absence of a concrete alternative, seek to banish the topic that practically depends on the country's economic and financial system. And there's that difference, and that's what people see and you need to know. You have to be aware of that. It'll be in the next election. I'm telling you this well-intentioned because I'd like to hear more reasoned criticism in your presentations, and less superficiality, less lapidarity, less reason to use this stage for something that you now stand a chance of two or three or four political points as you see them. As far as education is concerned, it is not such a simple subject that those who are dealing with it are slightly more detailed, nor is it a subject to be underestimated and also labeled. You said here at the pay phone that Minister Barisic was a plagiarizer. That also says a lot about you. You said that like you said good day. That's not good for you. Protects you from immunity, okay, protects you for a while or so. But that's not good. You say things that are incorrect, you say things that you obviously don't know enough about. And it is our approach on the other hand that, through a fine dialogue, through understanding of the various world-famous optics, we bring out a Croatian education system where everyone will feel good, where everyone will find their own space and place because it is already a more demanding effort, it is an effort that requires dialogue, which requires understanding. As far as regional development is concerned, what the Croatian government is doing for local and regional self-government units. I know a lot of mayors and current and former, no government has made such a step in dialogue with local and regional self-government like this government. Regular meetings know exactly when, as the budget is planned, we all know exactly what are important strategic projects for certain parts of Croatia. You know why? Because we're talking, that's why we're talking, because I'm exchanging opinions. And I'm not making a difference whether it's your colleague Kolar or Komadini or my colleague Jelic or Boban, I don't care, I'm just as fond of Krapina-Zagorska and Primorje-Gorski and Split-Dalmatia and Međimurska and Osijek-Baranja County. And they see it, they appreciate it. And you will see through this process when we evaluate this practice how much we will do for each other and how much we will do for both more efficient functional and fiscal decentralisation in Croatian politics and in Croatian structures of government. A few details about the foreign policy that I see many are interested in, which they say we have never had worse relations with our neighbors. So let's open these four neighbouring countries and ask ourselves, since these problems are, how long has the open border issue with Slovenia been going on? As I recall, it's been going on since June 25, '91. Is this some sort of topic that's particularly important today? And you did not notice that this is the first time we have an open question for Croatia and Slovenia without any hysteria in the Croatian public space. It's never happened in the last 25 years. You ever wonder why? Ask yourself how we approached the subject. With BiH, I've been to BiH seven times in the last 12 months. The question of the Peljek Bridge, there's not a single dilemma, even if we're going to renegotiate a '99 contract. between President Tudjman and then chairman of Ali Izetbegovic's presidency can only go to the benefit of Croatia. And the bridge can only be on Croatian territory above Croatian, not only territorial but even internal waters. So the topic is very clear, very precise, very argumentative. With Hungary, do you think the INA MOL theme started on 19 October 2016? That your problems are from this government? No, they're not. They're part of the inherited problems. We try to articulate Croatian interests in a way that is legal, which is not dealing at all, on the contrary. Find a general interest and find a way to return the INA to the Croatian hands entirely. Relations with Serbia, the most complex without any dilemma from all neighbours. Reasons, very simple. Serbia's Milosevic aggression on Croatia, everything stems from that era, everything that happens today stems from that era and all these issues remain on the agenda, but we are also here to resolve these issues without the use of this topic for political profit. I'm not sure any Croatian Prime Minister treated that porch the way I treat it. You haven't heard from me a single sentence that sharpened relations and in order to get two or three votes more, I didn't, I didn't need, I don't need, we won the local elections without it. I am telling you this because the message and this report are very detailed and carefully calibrated, which we have prepared for today, not just me, but all colleagues and colleagues in the government are based on responsibility, on facts and on concrete moves. In these circumstances everything that happened on the agenda this year we couldn't solve everything, I don't pretend that we could solve everything, but we did everything that we had to do in the best way and we'll do it for the next 3 years. And that is what I promise you both to the Croatian public and it is the voters who will decide when the time comes to decide who to give time to again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53343	I thank the Prime Minister and therefore conclude the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53344	The Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is submitted to the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of HNS Representatives of Liberal Democrats, the Club of HDS Representatives, HSLS and HDS Slavonia and Baranja, the Club of National Minorities Representatives, the Party of Labour and Solidarity, the Parties of Intergenerational Solidarity of Croatia, Reformist and Independent Representatives, I give the following conclusion: 1. An annual report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be adopted. 2. The measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are supported in the Annual Report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 77 for, 47 against the conclusion that it was proposed by representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53345	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Safety of Maritime Ships and Ports, second reading, P.Z.E., No. 143. In accordance with Article 85 of the basic Regulation, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, shall apply to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate in accordance with 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Maja Markovčić Kostelac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. As has already been said, you have before you the Final Proposal for a Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, a law governing the Security Protection System to make our ports and ships of Croatian statehood less vulnerable to terrorist attacks and other illegal acts that may occur against these sensitive objects. Namely, when it became evident in the early 2000s that transport assets such as aircraft or railways could serve as weapons in the hands of terrorists, but could also be victims of major and far-reaching attacks on human lives and property, the International Maritime Organisation, which traditionally deals with the safety of navigation, took over the issue of security protection in this maritime segment. In this way, we have received a new part of the International Convention on the Protection of Human Life at Sea, SOLAS Convention, as headquarters conventions in international maritime navigation, which was then reflected through two EU legislative acts, the Regulation on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports and Directives. These legislative acts were properly implemented through the Croatian legal system, initially through the regulation and then through the law. However, since in the process of joining the EU, we were obliged to implement the provisions of all EU regulations, this was now to be eliminated from the legal text of the provision of the regulation in order to ensure its direct application. Equally, it was very important to remove the observed irregularities or shortcomings in the practice of law enforcement and also respond to the technological progress that has taken place in recent years. In this way, before you there is a law that solves this matter systematically by defining the competences of individual authorities of the State Administration of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the MUP, the Coast Guard and their mutual coordination. The basic tasks that this law regulates are to determine the degree of security protection, so their dissemination towards maritime ships is in international navigation and towards ports. The same is the basis for a defined degree of security protection in the way in which an assessment of the safety gain is established and the basis for an assessment of the design of safety protection plans is established. As a rule, the assessment is defined for a wider area and then the security protection plans are generated. In addition to this moment in the blues of security protection, 33 Croatian state-owned ships are included in international navigation, while all ports are covered by all ports open to international traffic covering 54 operational areas. An assessment of security protection and a security plan for ports works by recognised organisations, so this law defines their level, their competence and their way of certification. At the moment in Croatia, there are 4 recognised port security organisations and the safety protection of ships is estimated and auditioned for the Croatian Register of Ships as a recognised organisation. Following all that I have brought here, given the existing legislative practice, the adoption of this law will not require additional costs in respect of its obligation or the application of new obligations under this law. I would also like to point out on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee to Articles 51 and 52 of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53347	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first to represent Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53348	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrs. Markovčić Kostelac, just one question, something I missed, when we talk about recognised port security organisations, means that they are making an assessment, an assessment of protection and a plan for protection, you say that there are 4, is that sufficient number or do you expect more of these organisations to appear in the future that will require such authorisation? And if you can tell, what kind of organizations are these?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53349	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53350	Dear Mrs. Markovčić Kostelac, I have somehow missed one important question, will this Law on the Safety of Maritime Ships and Ports in the future prevent Tomislav Horvatincic from killing people in the Adriatic unpunished? In fact, if we are already talking about the safety protection of maritime ships, we are likely to include all vessels, including vessels of foreign citizens who have come to the Adriatic on vacation. And somehow it's extremely inappropriate for me to have the state not to worry about the safety of our guests, our tourists, but rather to let those who have killed before, so that nothing leaves the case. So I hope there's at least one provision in this law that could prevent it or at least lead to a situation that no judge can recognize the syncope in that situation anymore, but that things can be simple for judges. So, they don't have to burn on the walls like St. Lovro in the doubt whether to condemn or not to condemn him, but to have a legal foothold on which it will be in the future completely uncontested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53351	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53352	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs for these questions. Compared to the first question, as I said at this point, four recognised organisations have been authorised to protect the port, one, for safe protection of the ships. For the safety protection of ships, the authorised organisation is the Croatian Register of Ships, and for the security protection of ports... d.o.o. is one and the other... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] d.o.o. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] d.o.o. All recognised, i.e. all companies intending to obtain the status of a recognised organisation, submit a request from the Ministry of the Sea and the Ministry of the Sea through a committee involved by colleagues from other ministries carrying out supervision, review, such recognised organisations as to meet the conditions prescribed by this law. At this point, we do not have any new requirements for a recognised organisation, we react without delay to any request that has been delivered to us and anyone who meets the requirements will receive a solution, that is, a permit to carry out such a job. As for the other question, I wouldn't put it in the context of this law at all, nor would that be appropriate. Since this is what you fellow MPs are talking about, it's a matter of security. It may not be clear in Croatian that these are two completely different substances, which may affect one another in some segments. The English, the question you're talking about, they call the word safety. And we're talking about something called security. So there are completely 2 unrelated topics, so then you wouldn't consider it particularly appropriate to answer in the context of this law to your question. Lastly, I would not comment on the judgments of the courts, but what I can tell you is that the safety of sailing on the Croatian Adriatic is at a high level, that services are competent to improve the safety of navigation ready and we conduct regular very high-quality actions... Saving people at sea, which we prove to a large number of people saved and given the number of maritime traffic participants on the Croatian Adriatic, is a small number of victims. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There will always be irresponsible behaviour in all segments of traffic, unfortunately at sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53353	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. As the secretary of state herself said, between the final draft of the law and the first reading he was in the Parliament, it seems to me to me at the end of June of this year, except... The change has not changed much, therefore, since we at the club then adopted this law and explained why we can support it, so we will also support your bill, which actually comes down to harmonisation with the 2 EU directives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In doing so, it should only be pointed out that the basis of the law was passed in 2004, later changed, and then amended in 2012, and now we have a new Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ports and Ships. I haven't been a respected secretary of state since the beginning, so I don't know if you've said it, but it seems to me that in the Republic of Croatia, 33 ports have been certified under the existing Law on the Protection of Maritime Ships and 43 ships owned by Croatian shipowners, Croatian companies, and then we can see in that sense what number and ports and ships are involved in, when it comes to the implementation of this law. That is, with regard to the implementation of this law. It is very important that we pass this law, although the Croatian Maritime Administration has long clearly followed the implementation of the law itself, there is also a plan for security protection and port, which is adopted and measures of any kind and in any way to react to any threat when it comes to boating and on the one hand, when it is the safety of a particular port. Well, in that sense, since there has been no change, since we've already discussed this, we're going to support this law at the HDZ Club anyway. And just one more thing I said was in the reading process, now I'm going to complete it, which is that we in the Croatian Parliament expect the Croatian government to introduce us to a new proposal for a law on maritime good. On this also today, if you have listened carefully to the debate on the government's annual report, it has been addressed to the wrong address and the wrong issue of a milestone, bringing about the Law on concessions, the Law on Maritime Goodness, and then in that sense, I think that the Law on Maritime Goodness should be adopted as soon as possible, so that some doubts that do not exist for me, but obviously in part of the Croatian public, they exist, although legal professionals, professors, etc. discusses the problem of concessioning maritime goods and the importance of individual law and its impact on the adoption, the decision-making of concessions is clear. But here, in order to bring this law into line with the Law on concessions, in order to show a new way and to see this government, according to the management of maritime goods, it would be good if this law came here as soon as possible in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53355	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Honorable representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53356	My colleague Bacic speaks again as you have told him about the directives, the safety of our ports and ships, however, the fact is that safety when we speak, and you are now saying, in the end, I will now look back on the maritime good. It is very important when we observe security then we do not say that it is not a good message from Croatia, it is not enough just these, I will repeat myself, I will copy those directives when we see how the rulings are after 5, 6 years in the case of Horvatinčić where passengers, ships are very safe, individuals are safe and the law is probably good because the directive and of course we will prescribe it, it should be one translator in the Government and copying those EU directives and of course give it here. And as for the maritime goods, you say we have to solve the concession case, so is it unrelated now that about what the lady used to say here, I would just briefly ask you if maybe Peruca, the Perun thermal power plant, is it bound, how, who's going to give a concession to Peru to these private projects, who asked for water, is it already when we go, who gave it to renewables? So here we are at the end and for the Golden War and the rest of our marine well-being so far that it has used whatever anyone wanted and how someone was closer to the political elites. I repeat again, it is not enough to rewrite EU directives when everything is done in Croatia to only protect certain caste of this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53357	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53358	Col. Bulj, you have now asked a lot of questions about the problem when you mentioned it, which concerns the inadmissible verdict of a municipal court in Croatia, I do not want to talk about it, but the issue does not apply to this law, nor to the Law on concessions, nor to the Law on Maritime Goodness, so let the Croatian judiciary know that the verdict will look justifiable, I would now not guess. As for the Law on concessions and in this context the mention of the Golden War, the mention of Peru, again, I claim that the Law on concessions is a roof law, that the waters are concessioned under the Water Act, that maritime good concessions are made under the Law on the Sea Good. And those laws, it's true, you're right, they have to be in line with that roof law, the concession law. So in that part, I can only answer that here, as you expect us to include as many local communities as possible in the decision-making of concessions as possible both the municipality or the city and the regional or regional unit of local self-government. Well, in that context, I hope that, at least I hear it's already very close, here we will testify about that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53359	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53360	Final proposal of the Safety Protection Act for Maritime Ships and Ports, Second Reading, P.Z.E., No. 143. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representatives accepted the amendment of the Committee. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Security Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, please vote. I find it unanimous with 119 votes to pass the Safety and Maritime Ships and Port Act along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53361	Now I would suggest that we unite the next two points. These are the points: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Kosovo on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax; - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes; Do you agree to unite those two points? Here, everyone seems to agree, everyone's nodding. Thank you very much. So they're both emergency procedures, first and second reading P.Z. No. 203, or 204, respectively. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that legislative proposals be discussed under the urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The discussion on both proposals was also carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić, together for both. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53362	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. So it is before us, we have two Laws on Confirmation of the Treaty on the avoidance of Double Taxation, so with the Republic of Kosovo and with the United Arab Emirates. I can say that I am pleased that we are coming with such laws to the Parliament because they mean and enable easier economic cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the entrepreneurs and also the natural persons if we are talking about income tax between the Republic of Croatia and the countries with which the contracts are concluded. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia is currently applying 61 double taxation contracts while negotiations to conclude new contracts with a number of new countries are under way. The initial basis for negotiations in the conclusion of a double taxation agreement for income and property taxes as well as in most states is the own models that each country develops according to its own tax policy and are based on a model of contracts to avoid double taxation of income taxes and of the property of the OSCE, i.e. an organisation for economic cooperation and development and the UN. The Republic of Croatia has committed to applying the international agreements it has concluded or has joined the former SFRY if they are not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. With a number of countries, the Republic of Croatia has reached an agreement to continue to apply double taxation contracts concluded by those countries with the former SFRY, for example, on the basis of a succession. This is the case with Finland, Norway, Sweden and a series of other countries and until new bilateral agreements are concluded. Regarding the conclusion of a double taxation agreement with the Republic of Kosovo, we point out that the Croatian and Kosovo finance ministers signed in Zagreb on 6 March 2017 the Treaty between the Republic of Kosovo on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax avoidance. Also, Croatian Finance Minister and Foreign Minister and International Co-operation of the United Arab Emirates signed a contract in Zagreb on 13 July this year between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes. A deal with the Republic of Kosovo has been reached with a number of reliefs in taxing all types of income as well as improving the conditions for increasing the mutual exchange of goods and services, and increasing the level of overall economic activity of both states in the manner I will say it below. Therefore, the term resident is defined to avoid double taxation of Croatian residents, but it also prevents the avoidance of income tax. It is possible for Croatian construction and similar societies not to pay profit tax in the Republic of Kosovo if the works last less than 12 months. It is possible for Croatian road, air and shipping companies carrying out the transport of goods between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Kosovo to pay taxes on profits achieved exclusively in the Republic of Croatia if the place of real administration is located in the Republic of Croatia. In the case of dividend taxation, the tax rate per deduction of 5% is established if the actual beneficiary is a company in which at least 25% of the capital of the company paying the dividend is directly owned, and in all other cases the tax rate is provided for at the deduction of 10%. Taxation of interest determines the tax rate after deduction of 5%. Taxation of copyright fees determines the rate of tax after deduction of 5%. The final provisions of the treaty stipulated that Croatian societies in Kosovo would have the same status and convenience as the state's societies. The joint agreement process is the possibility that any problem arising from or threatening the case of double taxation of the state is directly negotiated without the participation of diplomatic authorities to help speed up the problem. The article on the exchange of information is an effective means of combating tax avoidance. Given the above-mentioned solutions as I have said and the opening contract will be... investments in the Republic of Croatia, international and mutual exchange of goods and services, and will therefore affect the increase in the overall economic activity of both countries so as not to count the same effects, i.e. the same issues which have been resolved and the agreement with the United Arab Emirates can say that almost identical effects, i.e. almost identical solutions, have been signed by that Treaty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is important is that the contracts signed need to be in accordance with Article 16. The laws on avoidance, conclusion and enforcement of international contracts need to be ratified in the Croatian Parliament. That's why we made them and sent them here. The basis for the adoption of this Act under emergency procedure is set out in Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in other particularly justified state reasons. In view of the reasons set out in points 2 and 3. The proposal for a law on the validation of these contracts, and as soon as possible to implement agreed mechanisms under the contract in question, and in order to intensify the economic cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and these two countries, it is necessary to establish conditions for the entry into force of the contracts in question. It is estimated that there is an interest for the Republic of Croatia to conclude its internal legal procedure as soon as possible in order to create assumptions that contracts in accordance with its provisions in the relations of the two countries enter into force. It is noted that on the date of entry into force of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Kosovo and the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation, the contracts are not in force and the data on their entry into force will be published in accordance with the provision of Article 30(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Laws on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. The same goes for both contracts. And here, in view of all of this, we propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of these two laws, i.e. the confirmation of these two contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53363	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We only have one club. This is the club of HDZ MPs, Honorable representative Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53364	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with a colleague. Here's a united discussion. I think we have reason for that because matter is equal and we don't need to overcomplicate it. So there are two proposals before us of the Treaty Confirmation Act, meaning between the two Governments of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Kosovo and the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax in particular in the case of the Republic of Kosovo. We've heard from the secretary of state, so the basis for this law is an international contract that our two ministries have concluded. One in March, I mean the other in July between the two ministries of our governments. And follow the very ratification of the same contract. It should be noted that the draft proposal, both proposals, passed the consultation of all ministries and economies and foreign affairs, the judiciary and the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which had no objections. Of course our committees here in the Parliament. The risk of double taxation itself arises when, we all know when the two countries have the right to tax our income whether we work in one Member State, we live in another, whether we are directed to work abroad, whether we make a pension in one country, and we receive in another. In this case, these contracts only prevent double taxation which is based mainly on the residence itself. In the opening part of the contract, the State Secretary noted that the concept of residents was defined in particular. In short and simplified, the resident himself is a natural or legal person whom the law of a particular country treats as a domestic person. It's so simplistic. And the secretary of state compared what all of this agreement will regulate between the two governments and the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo and the United Arab Emirates, so we will not mention it in particular. We can only compare the building and the construction companies that will be interesting about our two governments. So in Kosovo, the contract aims to regulate international goods transport, reduce the rate of passive income, compensation for copyrights that are all 5%, in taxing dividends by 5%, for works less than 12 months. It is interesting and it may well be noted and explained exactly in Article 24 and 25 of the Treaty on Kosovo, and I think in the United Emirates it is Articles 26 and 27, and this is related to joint agreement and exchange of information. Namely, it is precisely for the development of economic co-operation and for the simple walk of any kind of business that can arise in any exchange or business of our two countries, i.e. The person who's going to be doing certain jobs there if I understand it correctly outside of diplomatic missions will get around it. And I think that directly our two tax administrations will communicate and deal with what is said on the spot so that we will skip any diplomatic submissions and thus speed things up. It may also be important to note that the Kosovo government has passed a law on foreign investment that already enhances a certain part of its business in Kosovo itself. We also know that the Republic of Kosovo is, unfortunately, among the poor in our environment. As far as imports are concerned, and some kind of trade, I think that Croatian businessmen definitely have their own area of action. This is mainly about food products, the construction material of our construction company which otherwise have a good rating in foreign countries as regards the performance of certain works. I think Kosovo is crying out for such works as building infrastructure, road upgrades. And I think that's definitely where we can fit in. The only trade between our two countries in 2016 was, so we exported 65 million euros in goods, imported only 2.3 which is not a certain level, and I think it can definitely be improved. As far as the United Arab Emirates are concerned, there are statistics I think even worse. So we had somehow the biggest trade in goods a few years ago she's been falling apart ever since. Here was 46m euros in 2016, of which exports amounted to 43m euros and imports of only 3m euros. I think that in these two countries we definitely have room for progress and business co-operation and that we should focus, especially I have to stress Kosovo here. But here both countries have a similar tendency to import, and there they could definitely help right through the construction industry and energy, especially the food industry the ITC sector and, of course, our tourism. It may be important to point out that this contract will definitely come after the ratification of aid and the performance of our companies in the area of these two countries. We have a few agreements signed between our two governments so that certain bilateral relations exist and some cooperation is already in the body. It should also be noted that this EXPO 2020 in Doha will be very interesting for our economies. So I definitely agree and with the application of the emergency procedure these two proposals are definitely for our owners and employers not to be difficult but to enable them to cooperate as quickly as possible. As for the HDZ Club, of course, we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53365	Thank you very much. I'm closing this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53366	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Kosovo on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax and property tax, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 203. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Kosovo on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income and property tax, please vote. It finds that, unanimously with 122 votes, the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53373	We are now going to the point, which is: - Report on the financial audit carried out by the County Road Administrations for 2015. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law of the State Audit Office. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. The government has delivered its opinion. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear State Auditor Ivan Klešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53374	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciable MPs and MPs. In accordance with the programme and work plan for 2017, the State Audit Office carried out a financial audit in 20 County Road Administrations. The audit covers financial reports and business reports for 2015. The objectives of the audit were to establish the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports, to verify the achievement of income and income, and expenditure and expenditure in accordance with planned activities and purposes. Check compliance with the laws and regulations and check other activities relating to the operation of road management. The revenues and receipts at the Road Administration for 2015 amounted to 928 million kuna and expenditures and expenditures of 918 million kuna. The most significant revenues of 850 million kuna are the revenues from the annual fee for the roads to be paid for the registration of the vehicle. In the structure of expenditure and expenditure, the cost of maintenance and construction of roads amounting to 696 million kuna is more significant. At the end of 2015, the administration of the road was 18600 km of county and local roads. There are 8 unconditional and 12 conditional opinions on financial reports and business of the Road Administration. The audit identified irregularities in the field of triction and internal structure, planning and implementation of plans, accounting operations, income and expenditure, assets, and public procurement. For all identified irregularities and failures, the State Audit Office has given the Road Regulations and Recommendations to which implementation would contribute to increasing compliance with the laws, regulations and efficiency of use of public funds. Since the Office of Roads and Countys as their founding State Audit Office has also informed all counties, as well as the Association of County Road Administrations, that the audit reports indicate the irregularities and failures in the operation of the Road Administration, as well as the orders and recommendations for their removal. In addition, in the joint report on the audit carried out, the State Audit Office stated its opinion on certain areas of business of the County Road Administrations relating to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and the Croatian Roads, and was also notified to them of the audits carried out. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53375	Thank you very much to the state's chief auditor. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? And I'm sorry, we had lines of two. Dear Representative Tomislav Lipoščak first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53376	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed state auditor Klesic and his associates. As regards the very report on the financial audit of the County Road Administrations, it is evident that, in fact, in the structure of expenditure and expenditure, the most significant part goes to the maintenance and construction of roads, or more than 75% of the funds. Personally, I think it's a very good indicator, because it just confirms to us that the County Road Administrations are doing their primary job, which is building, reconstructing, maintaining county and local roads. Despite all the problems in which certain County Road Administrations are located. And that is exactly why I came forward and what I want to point out, and that is the problem of unequal financing of the County Road Administrations in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, the financial resources vary considerably from a single county administration to a county administration, and they are not only dependent on the financial resources allocated to them but also on the network, or the length of the roads, but also on the weather conditions, or certain seasonal movements in which certain county administrations are involved. Winter service is a major cost generator, and individual county administrations are not in the same conditions. As for the specific height and height of the snow cover, but also the length of the snow, or snow days. If we also look at data on means per mile of roads they really move in one broad weight, in a wide range. For example, we have the County Road Administrations of Ličko-Senj County or Karlovac County where some 20 thousand kuna are available per km of road, and on the other hand we have the County Administrations of Split-Dalmatia with just over 50,000, Primorje-Gorski 90 and so on. I'm not saying it's a big asset. However, these funds are also minimal for the primary function of the County Road Administrations. And I think you should consider returning those 10 limes that have been taken away and rerouted. and on the Intervention Fund which would equate the funds of individual county administrations. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53377	It's not exactly about the audit, but good. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53378	Thank you, Vice President. I would have just reached out and actually what Mr Klesic said already, it is very important that these reports are also very high-quality and that we have unconditional opinions in this period than it was in the previous period. So 8 unconditional and 12 conditional and certainly very professional by audit done. What should also be mentioned is that in 2015, the County Road Administrations had problems because the Regulation on the allocation of funds to finance construction and maintenance of unclassified public roads, unclassified therefore, should have allocated 120 million kunas of which only 30% were indeed allocated. So, about 70% of the less funds were transferred for the purposes that were supposed to be, and that really made it difficult to maintain public county roads during that period in 2015, and we know that this applies to both winter maintenance and all other interventions that were needed. It should therefore be noted that it is not good for these rules to reduce the resources relevant to the functioning of the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53379	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first came to the Club of the Living Wall and SNAGA Ivan Vilibor Sincic. He's not here. He's losing his right to debate. The next club is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and time will be shared by the distinguished representatives of Žagar and Bulj. Here you go. First, my colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53380	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected state auditors with associates. My colleagues and colleagues here, I will try to make a brief discussion of what seems most important to me in the name of the club and about this report. But first of course we should commend this report as well as all the other reports that the revision brings us here to the Croatian Parliament because it has indeed been made and accurate, and exactly, and extensively. It's a little harder to read, especially when a man isn't exactly an economist, so in that part of it, he hears some things and he hears the concepts, but what I'm getting cut up and what I want to share here. So, the report shows us which things aren't good even though this is a report from the county road administrations, their work, it seems to me that some of the problems you've been pointing out are a little bit of a transition from the county administration itself because we've often been witnesses here in the Parliament as Parliamentarians rightly say we're being swept by the banks. Then the county road management report comes in and we see that some of the others know how to swing. Well, here we go. Let's do it in a row. Your report says that the County Road Administrations have 102 members of the administration and held 132 sessions and that they were paid for their fee of 2 million 448 thousand 500 kuna. I don't think this is good. You say the President of the Governing Council has a fee, a monthly fee of 600 to 2 and a half thousand kuna depending on the county administration, and a member from 400 to 2 thousand kuna. I think the experience has shown, and also the last revision, in the last report on your audit then I warned that we must be careful that there are often times in these numbers hidden some political games, because often a place in the board is actually buying political obedience. This is not the subject of this report, nor you, but it is evident that it stands here, so someone as a member of the ZUC board gets 2,000 kunas per month regardless of how many sessions are held. That's one problem. As regards the payment of the service of the annual road fee, which is the main income of the county road administrations, you have made it all here to cost that the ŽUCs actually pay legal persons including the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia and the service worth 12 million 668 thousand 344 kuna. You specifically specified that 6 kuna per vehicle is taken for, be careful, to issue a certificate of paid fee, 6 kuna per vehicle that a fee has been paid. A 1 and a half kuna for electronic data processing, kuna and a half per vehicle. I don't know what kind of electronic data processing is to cost a kuna and 50 limes and I don't know if that's the amount in that 12 million 668 thousand 344. This is what it means if it cumulatively gives that amount 12 million 668 thousand 344. Some roads could be made for that money in the Republic of Croatia. Then we have, you've listed another fee, a service that's being charged, and that's the payment service of the annual road fee, and that service is being paid at the vehicle's technical inspection station, and it seems to me to be the same big 21.55 kuna. It's a billing service. So it's not a charge. And self-registration and extension costs 115.30 lip. These are the problems that we notice and which you rightly warn about in this financial report. Of course, you have also pointed out the problem of the financial plans that the county as its founder should verify, the County Assembly and some county administrations did not do, and even the changes and additions of these plans did not send to certify the county which is one of the problems. And finally, I would touch public procurement means one that crosses 200 thousand kunas of goods and services, and about the works of 500 thousand kunas that are subject to public procurement. You state that the total value of goods, works and services is 218 million 793 thousand and 500 kuna, and you also mention a massive purchase of 82 million 376 thousand 708 kuna. Given the number of ZUCs, it's not that big a deal. However, you state here that, for example, goods and services amounting to 8 million kuna, and for works of more than 16 and a half million kuna, no negotiation procedure has been carried out without prior publication. So it wasn't transparent of that bargaining, which again in the process is a pretty big percentage. And you have rightly warned the County Road Administrations that from January of this year, the new Public Procurement Act has come into force to bring all these activities into line with the new law. Here, in short, on behalf of the club, I wanted to point out these things that the reports show, which are directly related to me saying this to every kuna, and with my colleagues will probably be in this debate, I agree that the county road administrations do not have enough money, and precisely because such a small amount of money should then be more responsible with that money and to say more transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53381	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Auditors, your report is excellent. It points to a number of irregularities. What my colleague Sagar said on behalf of the Bridge Club, I stand behind those words. However, here we should add the fact that you have also cited, from funding, planning, staffing, which is not all you have listed a number of irregularities. Therefore, this report will accept your Bridge and once again point to what many counties are serving. their companies that are purpose to themselves. I would only briefly say that in Dalmatia it is visible which problems we have besides Zadar County, of course because Zadar County had a minister of traffic, so of course that the most attention was cast. However, when we look at the Dalmatian Zagora, the Drinski area, the Sibenik hinterland, when we look at the Dalmatian Zagora as a whole, the blue, real estate end in fact and also the Vrgora mean long-promised roads that are very important for the development of these areas, they are forgotten and, of course, because we have 20 county roads, we have means of numerous local roads, local self-government paves how it wants and we have state roads in fact we don't have strategic planning of these essential infrastructure roads, so it's very important that the most asphalting and has enough money. I've been very interested in the report since this year when the elections are local and regional. I've been on a campaign this year, so I've been going around the county, and I can't get into Imotsky since I let the asphalt vehicles go. It's paved to the Cube just to vote. So it will be for 2017 when regional and local elections are so much of an irregularity, and you have cited them in essence and planning and funding essentially has nothing to do with anything but get votes and therefore serve. How many 2 billion, as we have said two and a half million kunas are paid are not equaled in one county are larger, in one less, so we have no evenly and that part is not even, so one county gives greater compensation to its members of the administrative bodies, to others less. I simply don't see the meaning of so many county roads, county road administrations, it's simply just a catch factory that's going to be a potential, an election potential that needs to be activated at a given time, and that's the fact that in this case it could be a much better transport infrastructure in the whole of Croatia, and unfortunately it's not like that, and it's visible. Here I can only say about my county and I expected a tent from the mayor promised a tent before the government if it was not broken through Kozjak, Raoceva, Drvenik, that there would be a road finished by Mr. Bačić as a minister of traffic and opened, but a few meters made, which is very important for the Vrgorak region and even for Hercegovina where the same majority people live is Croatian for the whole development. So we don't have strategically, that's what I wanted to warn you, my colleague, Sagar, commended the report and I commend it that the observations were made, but I really don't know in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, you probably know Mr. Bačić because you're answering. Is it really when the election is, and how many of those trucks only have asphaltes? When I went the way of Imotsky, the way of Vrgorac, you can't get past how many trucks go, and they literally ask people if they're going to the Cube, to the Golubinjak, to the Guvna, so there's asphalt, it's pitching, there's no plan, there's just going to be a populist, it's pre-election, and that's why this is the situation as it is. It's probably in the county where Mr. Djakic came from, too? Once again, I would like to say that we accept the report and hope that there will be strategically, these ambiguities and irregularities that the revision has found will be resolved and that it will be strategically planned from the summit, from local self-government, regional administration, to the state, that roads will be planned and that they will be developed throughout the Republic of Croatia because many regions are forgotten and are traffic-insulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53383	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First on the presentation of the esteemed representative of the Sagar. Dear Representative Darko Paric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend Sagar, it's stuck in my ear. You said that citizens pay 6 kuna for issuing a payment certificate and then pay another 1 and a half kuna for electronic processing of the same fee. To make it classic, it's like coming to a supermarket buying monthly food for 1,000 kuna and then at the cashier's account, your aunt gives you a bill and collects another 6 kuna for that bill she gave you and still charges you a kuna and a half because she's trying to make it all work for you to issue that bill at all. What I'm saying is, this is a typical parafiscal impose that serves absolutely nothing but to take extra money from people, or money from people, which is then rerouted unimportant where and how, but it is absolutely necessary in 2017 to take these 7 and a half kuna for this nonsense from citizens. In particular, I remind you that we have the State National Information Infrastructure Act, and we have an e-Citizen, who clearly prescribes that these things are needed and must be done precisely because of these things through this system and through this system all of these data if they need them to be apolytically free in the form of electronic documents, it takes 15 days for someone to make an effort to do and everything is solved and we no longer have two parafiscal duties for which I do not really understand in 2017 why they exist? Why does it have to be me or anyone who has to give me six kunas to give me confirmation that he's charged me something or God forbid he's gonna charge me a kuna and a half 'cause he knocked on that same computer to charge me for something? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53385	Thank you very much. Let's concentrate, first this is 2015, not 2017, and it's a review. Comrade Sagar, are you going to answer something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53386	Yes, yes, thank you. Therefore, the 2015 audit says that 6 kuna and kuna and a half will be paid. And that's a little bit more of a fellow Parisian situation because the station for the technical examination of the vehicle makes a contract with legal persons and with the Centro for the vehicles of Croatia and pays the Centre for vehicles of Croatia as far as I understand from the report of those 6 kuna which also the Center for Vehicles issues, and the Center for Vehicles is also the majority owner of the Technical Review Station, I think 111 has... Well then, the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia makes its own agreement on the management of electronic records and then charges itself, I think to myself, charges the citizens what they do to themselves. I mean, it's a little bit like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53387	Thank you very much. The next replica is distinguished representative Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53388	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have a replica in two parts, one relating to Mr. Sagar, and the other to Mr. Bulj, given that the rapporteurs are on behalf of the club, I hope you'll allow me to address both of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53389	That's not exactly how it works. You've got to talk to him sometime.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53390	Okay. I would refer here to a part of Mr. Žagar's debate, which has raised 12 million kunas, so the cost paid to the station for the technical inspection of the vehicle, i.e. by the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia. This report on the revision of the County Road Administration, so just to demystify that story, that this is not interpreted as the cost produced by the county administrations or the problem of the County Road Administration. But speaking of demystifying that thing to the end. Therefore, the cost structure of registering a personal vehicle for example for one Octavia cost in 2015 was for technical examination of 190 kuna, for eco-test 128 kuna, forms for technical examination of 11.68 kuna, special environmental compensation 49 kuna, jobs that preceded the extension of the value of 57 kuna, payment of prescribed services 43 kuna, road fee, so that only goes to ZUC 374 kuna and compulsory insurance with 50% discount was then 2400 kuna. It's something reduced. So for insurance 72%, for technical inspection stations 14.58%, County Road Administrations 11.13% and the Environmental Protection Fund 1.45. So that's the actual cost and practically the cost of road charges that the only income of the County Road Administration is practically half an hour of technical inspection of the vehicle, so here's just so we know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53391	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53392	Thank you, Vice President. So, very briefly. Thank you, fellow Skoric. So I didn't probably make it clear enough. And Žuc loses that, so citizens pay, ZUC doesn't get that money. Here's a thank you for that correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53393	Thank you very much. And now for a distinguished colleague, Bulja Replica Đjakić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53394	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Bulj, you were describing how money was spent in the County Road Administrations and you said that some were unnecessary. I think they have a purpose and a role, but in 2015 it was as remarkable as years before the redistribution of funds was unfair, that it went to the highest ZUC in Krapina-Zagorje County and Istria County it is a fact. That the funds were redistributed from other county administrations belonging to them and sent there from where the minister is and where the director of Croatian Roads is from. It is a fact that is visible even today when it is fully decorated with circular flows that cost up to 90 million kuna as well as all roads accessible and all who were not in the county authority were solved in Krapina-Zagorje County. That's what shouldn't have happened, and I didn't see it in the review report.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53395	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53396	Well, that's the problem, in fact, of which political authority it is. In this case 2015 was obviously IDS was strong in the coalition with the SDP and of course that was... Undeveloped Istria and that they have done this great problem, and other county administrations, of course, have lost their income. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the fact that it is unbalanced is absolutely everything and that the decentralised funds are used as someone's thought of and who's in power. This is visible mainly in the Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia where the hinterland is absolutely forgotten not only on these reports which is correct, there is no dispute made and indicates irregularities for 2015 and can also be confirmed by all employees of the County Road Management and County Roads. There's too much. Too much money goes to the administration, and we don't have a strategic plan of what would tribale, which would tribale Lici, the Dalmatian Zagora, no matter what place it was forgotten. This is where you can guess who's got more hands. If he's a man from Istria, it doesn't matter which county and which political option in power that way. It's the only relevant criterion, and it's mostly ahead of me that I like Zadar County. And that's pretty obvious. I'm just sorry there's no tunnel in Zadar, so maybe there's paint. I'm really sorry about what was forgotten behind Dalmatia, which I'm sorry that it was forgotten absolutely during the Minister who was from Dalmatia. But I expect when there's no one in Dalmatia to think more about Dalmatia than when they were Dalmatians. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53397	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Petar Skoric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53398	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed chief state auditors with their associates. Here on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I will give a review of the report on the audit carried out for ZUCs in 2015. Mr Klešić pointed out their authority that these are institutions whose founders of the county, institutions that are extra- budget users of the county, which run their business books, financial reports according to the rules on budgetary accounting, which run from a total of 18650 km of county and local roads, which is approximately one and a half times as much as Croatian roads manage. It is mentioned through reports and management bodies and administrative councils and directors and I in general, so here before I go to other elements I can give one commendation to the State Audit for making one summary report for the first time, all of the ŽUCs. They have shown comparative indicators and based on their findings, suggestions, guidelines we have practically obtained one quality material that will certainly contribute to improving, equating standard, work and action, county road administrations. Of the 20 County Road Administrations to remain granted an unconditional opinion of the state audit, 12 conditional. Previous audits are also mentioned. 4 ŽUCs had unconditional, 1 ŽUC has an unfavourable opinion, and everyone else has a conditional opinion in several of the areas under consideration. So 3 ŽUCs have two irregularities, 4 three irregularities, 1 ŽUC four irregularities, and 4 ŽUCs have five irregularities. When it comes to the revenues of ZUCs made exclusively from car registration fees, which we mentioned was half an hour of technical examination, total revenues are 928 million kuna. On average, therefore, about 46.4 million kuna and there is a review for each ŽUC individually. That amount went from up to two years ago and over a billion kuna, but here's the previous government reduced it. The largest share of income 92.9% is the annual fee for roads which are thus made in registration of vehicles where we have a million and 423 thousand 987 vehicles in 2015. Until 2015. The ŽUCs also generated a income of 120 million kuna from the Croatian roads that has been abolished and we expect that amount to be returned, and also through ZUCs, budget funds have been allocated to other cities and municipalities over 35,000 inhabitants, so for their investments in transport. In terms of expenditure, total expenditures amount to 918.4 million kuna, on average about 45.9 million kuna. For employees, 42.1 million. For the regular maintenance of roads, so what is normally the maximum amount of 457 million and an average of about 22 million per ZUC. So about 152 million kunas are being realized in terms of investment maintenance. The issue of construction and reconstruction of roads is also about the amount of around 80 million kunas on average 4.3 million kunas, and this is going very hard, but there are also visible shifts. Here's the difficult way out of building permits that we've been very complex and it's been going on for years. The problem is also the plotting lobbys whose authentication takes a long time. We know that the problems in the land and the catastros and to obtain permission take a very long time. As for the expenditure on the repayment of loans, I would also mention that all ZUCs together have a total credit commitment of HRK 34.5 million, which is a negligible amount compared to general debts, the debts of other road sectors, which confirms the rationality of business. So, as far as the employees were concerned, all ZUCs together have 200 employees, an average of 10 per county road management, and it's mostly more than 90% of high-educated personnel. When we talk about the costs of these employees, administration, etc. Therefore, it is incorrect that it is high costs, since the expenditure on employees is on average 4.6% of the total expenditure. So over 90% of the funds are being built directly into the road. On the property of the length of roads on average after ZUC, we have 933 km of roads per county road management. The property was shown at 76.267 billion kuna, while 17 years ago the property was almost twice as large. The County Road Administrations also made a series of remarks and proposals regarding the property, as we also pointed out to our auditors that the assessment was based on an estimate from 2000 on the study produced by the Croatian IGH road where most roads were estimated at $1 million per km and multiplied by the rate and length of each road, and the depreciation rate was 1.5%, and now 4%. So, according to this amortisation age, the roads are now 25 years old and we have this absurd situation if we stick to this calculation that the depreciation rate if 4% of all our roads remain in 10 years will become accountingly worthless. And in that sense, I think it would be necessary to change, to review the existing methodology that makes these calculations happen and to find a more realistic and useful way of determining the value of the roads. And this can be achieved because all the ZUCs have also created quality databases that will facilitate the determination of these values. I can say in the end that the ZUCs have proved themselves to be small and efficient administrations that are responsible and high-quality in assets where 90 to 95% are directly invested in the road. They have a minimum number of employees per km of roads, with a minimum management cost and justify their existence. County roads, county local roads are the largest road network, which accounts for 70% of all sorted roads in the Republic of Croatia. It's about the roads our citizens take every day and come from work to school. So the majority of the population is used by these roads and these are the roads closest to the needs of our local population. So, in these 19 years of their existence, the ZUCs have confirmed their role in doing very well. Small environments were the most prosperous. Therefore, it is necessary to remember the situation in many of our smaller places in the surrounding, in villages and the similar road infrastructure as it is today, to ensure the uniform development of each county as well as their basic tasks. So it's about a system that's been stalked and designed and that needs to be upgraded. I therefore believe that this revision is extremely useful, that this overall comprehensive and detailed, will help to improve standards and even procedures at ZUC levels, but here are relations with other road sectors in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, numerous findings and recommendations will help. And on behalf of the club, we accept this report and all of these recommendations that will improve the continued operation of the ZUCs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53399	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his distinguished representatives, Mira Totgergelia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53400	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague I agree with you on everything you've said. It's a good thing there's been a united review report. However, as this usually happens, we have county administrations that are among the better and can be seen to be able to do good. That's the 8 that got the unconditional opinion, we have these 12 who got the conditional opinion. But those 12 aren't exactly the same indicators. And when individual audit reports begin to be viewed, then it can be seen that some of the County Road Administrations are almost not functioning in a normal way. I will be a little based on the County Administration for the roads of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County when I look at the individual opinion of the revision then it is first seen that the last revision was there in 2005 and that still until 2015 some shortcomings that were identified in 2005 have not been removed. Then there was the talk of the administrative councils. We have meetings of the Governing Council between July 2015 and August 2016 have not been convened. And during 2015, we see from financial indicators that some 200 and some thousand kuna have been spent on the Administrative Council. The board of directors is appointed by the mayor. He named four members. One is ahead, one is a member in front of employees and practically directly the mayor affects the work of the Governing Council, because if it does not work, it can also change them. On the other hand, we have a financial plan for 2015 not drawn up according to funding programmes and sources, and projections of the 2016 and 17th financial plan have not been adopted. The proposal for a financial plan has not been submitted to the competent administrative authority of the county, etc. etc. So we have a zucchini that actually from this revision you can see doesn't work. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] And when we look at the whole thing, then we can say that the situation is satisfactory, but in some cases that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53401	Thank you. Answer. That wasn't exactly a replica, but here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53402	Oh, here's just a short piece of work. Answer. So now we can get into the depths of the individual zuc, the problems. As founder of these institutions, the County is certainly the most responsible and monitoring of their work, adopting their plans, reports and the like. I pointed out that this revision is important precisely for the reasons because, looking at the overall situation in the ZUCs gives a number of recommendations how to resolve the issues, and as far as I understand the report was delivered to the counties, so I also trust the counties where there are obviously more gaps in the ZUCs, that this is also a guideline and a guideline for them to sharpen and to improve the work of the ZUCs that are poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53403	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Darko Paric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53404	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Škorić, you said we had a million and 423 thousand cars that kind of registered in a year. And then math just had to come in. It's clear to me that through registration we're giving money to the ZUCs for road construction, road maintenance and absolutely logical. However, those previously mentioned 6 kuna for certificates, 1 kuna for data processing. You mentioned 11 kunas for different papers and all that pile of paper we get from registrations that nobody really needs, or even us. We'll give you a lot of money. On just these six kunas and one and a half kuna that is absolutely unnecessary, we each set aside over 10 million kunas annually. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia give 10 million kunas to someone for something that is pure nonsense. And on the other hand, finance ministers and these and those former governments are meeting with different tax reforms to free people from 20 kuna, 50 kuna, and then, in some mass, it's worth a billion kuna, so we call it reform. And then on this third side, some kind of parafiscal stupidity that doesn't serve anything, we take 10 million kunas like this, and we have no idea what we took, so someone can maintain some bases that he's set up himself, what question is whether or not they need them. I mean, I just had to get back to you to point to the perfect illogicality of it. So here's my appeal if at all what it means to you as a member of the ruling coalition, and in principle, it's a narrow profession in some way, that you really work through the government, to see if you really need this kind of imposition, whether it's really necessary to pay for something that the government is betraying you. Needless to see what that money looks like, where it ends, what it serves, and if it's really possible to free all these millions and 423 thousand of our citizens from paying for stupidity. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53405	The answer of the respected representative Skoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53406	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. I thank you for the replica. You're right about compensation, administration and everything. And I've brought out here in the previous replica exactly how much the cost of registering a car from which it's visible that all of that cost is 11.13% going into the road, going exactly to the part that's most visible, which is not any parafiscal load. Because investing in the road, investing in improving road infrastructure is an investment in improving the lives of our fellow citizens, in extending the lifetime, in increasing their safety. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to consider how to verify these funds that go into various costs, to reduce because our absurdity is to be greater, 0,10 of the limes that are ZUC earlier, was abolished in 2015 by your previous government declared a parafiscal charge. So that was our second income next to registration, an income that was visible. Parafiscal abuses are precisely they impose a variety of administrations that citizens do not feel or see, but feel like a clean cost. So, in future work, we're sure that we're going to ask that these fees be checked and we try to cut them because citizens didn't deserve to pay something that they absolutely didn't benefit from.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53407	Thank you. And the last replica, the distinguished representatives of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53408	Thank you, Vice President. Well, you spoke about the County Road Administrations that receive unconditional, conditional opinions, revenue expenditures, etc. So I would like to point out here that I am extremely proud of the work of the County Road Administration of Sibenik-Knin County, from which I come, they have received an unconditional opinion in this report. They work hard and work hard, and it is also evident that they received a conditional opinion earlier in the year, which means that all recommendations tried to honor them. However, what saddens me is that it is coming from the annual road fee, for example. per kilometre square in our county was 31 thousand kuna, as opposed to. of the Primorje-Gorski County where it is 91 thousand kuna. And yet this same Primorje-Gorski County in 2015 receives aid of 8.6 million kuna, and ours with far less income than 1.5 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53409	The answer of the distinguished representative ŠkorićA.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53410	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You are right to the ZUCs is in the interest of the fact that, through the return of these 0.00 lips in agreement with the resolution ministry, the model for the ZUCs that have a large network of roads and reduced revenues in order to reduce these differences and allow them to operate sustainablely and function in their area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53411	Thank you very much. And now we have on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, the final presentation of MP Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53412	Here on behalf of the Mosta Club, I would finally say that it is visible that the system means in traffic, i.e. investment in infrastructure is wrong in Croatia, it is visible because Croatia is developing unevenly on the political key was allocated to ZUC's money. It is evident how which is the political option in power and essentially from the counties are creating feudal formations where there will be feuds, where it will now be when the lex sheriff is brought in, then it will simply be known which local self-government should suffer, which, of course, by political resemblance, is the only criterion, so that those who can develop and those who have the possibility of development will certainly be one criterion, and that is the key criterion, that is the political criterion. Just as the central state, according to the county, decentralizes money, i.e. The County Road Administrations, and the County Roads do it, are no longer aware of how many roads there are, the County Road Administrations, and it is amazing to me that here praise some of their county administrations for the Sibenik-Kninska road, and when you come to Drniš, people say that the incredible relationship is forgotten, in the hinterland of Sibenik people complain probably in that county and the people who live simply have a different view. Except I repeat again, which is very good to have that influence for campaigns. So, in the campaign itself, I'm just going to do it again, and it's sad, when I went Imotsky's path, the Vrgorca path, you can't go from the truck, the column of the asphalt truck, it's untransparently so painfully, it doesn't matter what the voice is, it's important to eat the dove, the chicken, it's paved, and it doesn't matter what happens tomorrow. So it's in some local self-government to take out a sample of asphalt in the last ten years I think it's 2 meters, it's important to get black before the election. And it is invested essentially in what is unnecessary, instead of investing in kindergartens, in homes of health, it is simply given too much power to feuds, mayors, even now lex sherif when it is passed, simply some local self-governments if they are not as much as the leaders of the county it will be disastrous, they will be forgotten, as we mentioned in 2015 when SDP was in power, then it was given the most to Istria, Istria and Zagorje County so now will be given to most HDZ and so it was done and now depends on the sandwich who had more luck. But it is not good, it is not good for the smooth development of the Republic of Croatia. We're talking about roads here now, but otherwise it's not good this way that it works and it has to work in a way strategically planned from the top. These all the irregularities that are mentioned it stems from this, the huge money for roads that is intended to go essentially through multiple filters and it's getting lost. The local self-government that needs it means those who lose Mr. Skoric, local self-government, lose. I'm sorry, here's the case where the county roads are going to work, I'm sorry for Ciovo's not finished before, what Vijaduk brought in, what Djuro Djakovic didn't get that job, not a foreign company. I'm sorry to say. I am sorry when the roads were built on a higher level that a gram of iron in the highway was not built from Croatia and the Split Ironworks collapsed. So the system doesn't work, it's too much of these county administrations, county roads, roads of these, roads of those, and eventually it's least possible to get to who it should get to, and that's why we have this unequal even development, and maybe the indicator even in Sibenik-Knin County is talking about reviewing well and there's no one, but in fact logic is catastrophic, the system is wrongly complex and yet lex sherif, the counties will be basically feudal formations where it's going to be called feud and simply in that way it'll work, and by the local self-government that have another political option in power from the one in the county will be catastrophic. In Croatia there should be a strategy and this money that passes us through various amounts of state, county to local self-government... needs to be shortened, centralised and strategically thought. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53413	Thank you very much. Here are the replicas for almost all present in the hall with a few exceptions. So let's start from the beginning. The first is Honorable representative Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you also mentioned the political criteria in the allocation of funds. I came forward precisely because of this end of this debate as colleagues started to speak here because of the mention of the Primorje-Gorski County, the Istrian County, the Krapina-Zagorska County, is mentioned. I don't normally like it, today's debate is the find of the audit, not the way the county's work and how the ZUCs work, where the ministry shares money. But when we open that debate already, here I have to say, I think I don't like the debates like this because then we all start to look at the local-patriot, and we should be interested in the whole country here together in focus, not that someone's talking Dalmatia like this, now I'm going to speak Primorje-Gorskina like this, Slavonia like this. Look, the Primorje-Gorski County, Istria and Krapina-Zagorska are getting a lot of money. They still get it today when HDZ is in power in the state. Why? Because we have projects. We function responsibly and responsibly with what we have power over our territory. Someone can't give you money from the Ministry of ZUC in Sibenik if you don't have projects, if you don't have spatial plans, building permits, local permits, all that documentation. You can only get money then if Kalmeta is your minister because he was the only one who shared money without criteria, without tails and with nothing. We are not in the Primorje-Goran County without a clue the most developed in Croatia, because we have projects, because there people work hard and manage their resources responsibly. You don't have any criminal proceedings against our leaders in the Primorje-Gorski County, we're not in the courts, we're not in jail. There's been some kind of review here. We also got to say that now that the HDZ is in power I was specifically on one allocation from Minister Butkovic a month ago where the Primorje-Gorski County received 1/4 funding this year for investment in port infrastructure and maritime well-being because we have projects. Unfortunately, in Dalmatia, some of the funds were withdrawn in this year because you received them and you were unable to call or tender and your deadlines were over and the funds will not be spent by the end of the year. It's nobody's fault. It's not your fault, not your PGGs, not Istria, not the Krapina-Zagorian County.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53415	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53416	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53417	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53418	Well, I would agree with you that the whole country needs to develop evenly. And I agree with you that there should be the same criteria, of course, and that counties should be able and local self-government and projects to apply and receive funds regardless of the power. But the fact is, I've noted that this system as it currently doesn't work, that's what I'm saying from the county level means by watching it asphalt. When there's most asphalt, I wanted to warn you about it, when the elections are. I simply when I went to Imotski when there was a campaign you couldn't get to Imotsky from the truck, asphalt where literally in the villages they asked where you should asphalt for a vote. If it's a strategy and it's a waste of money, then it's disastrous. I noted that it was not good whether the SDP was in power, so I gave more to one of my local units or county road management, or HDZ did not matter. Here's the point that you should have... development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm still mentioning now... that the counties are getting feudal their production, where even in my county they're thinking about replacing anthem, coat of arms, days, that's all we're talking about, but we're getting new feuds, and that's how local self-governments are going to be if these are local self-government criteria that aren't suitable by the criteria that are primarily this political situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53419	Thank you. Let's try to concentrate on the subject in replicas. Therefore, the revision, revision 2015 Dear representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53420	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Bulj, I would, you mentioned the Sibenik-Knin County again and the hinterland where there is no asphalt to Drnis and so on. I responsibly argue that the County Road Administration of Sibenik-Knin County is doing well and quality, but there is not enough income that can be paved up to one street or road. This government is trying to work and develop even development. Here's a colleague of Sasa's when he now gave his replica and he said that Minister Butkovic had just given 1/4 amounts to the Primorje-Gorski County and we know who was there. Therefore, we support it. Sibenik-Knin County and ZUC have projects, has licenses, but in 2015 we did not get more funding, and the Primorje-Gorski County has received far, far more. Here, so, confirmation that this government is doing things differently. When I was wanted for something more for regional development, we have a new law on the financing of units of local self-government, passed the first reading. I'm glad your club did, even though the opposition didn't support that law. You know how much in your midst you'll get more funds. I believe it will also contribute to a more even development. It really bothers me when you mention the lex sheriff. I don't think your colleagues who were mayors of Omis until yesterday would agree with you that the mayors, the mayors, are sheriffs. And this proposal of the new law only says that it should and must be adopted by the city budget or municipal budget. Otherwise, the city council or municipal council will be disbanded. It is not said that, as so far, the city council or the municipal council cannot change amendments within the legal framework of the expenditure or revenue side.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53421	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53422	I'm glad that the Primorje-Gorski County Minister of Transport who, of course, is a local patriot because he is from the Primorje-Gorski County, of course, gives the most to his county that we can observe that he may not be well. But I believe they were based on projects. Second of all, you say your zucchini are satisfied, yours is that you are satisfied. He's not here, now I repeat the question of pleasure to you, to me. There's no money, so that's the problem. It's a problem of what trucks run around with asphaltes when the elections are, and you know that in this way mainly in Dalmatia, in these rural areas, I tell poor people not to the poor residents because it's literally their last thing about asphalt elections. And there's very good money going, there's big amounts, huge amounts for votes. That's painful. It's a painful fact. And the irregularities so how can you, I mean justifying the irregularities a man has brought here by an auditor in front of all of us. Well, of course half of these facilities, the company's purpose is to itself. In order to be able to shorten the process and make it much better for local self-government, that process of money that shines, and everywhere it gets stuck, there's a lot of people everywhere who know how. This should be checked by the competent institutions. It would be better for local self-government to determine itself, not cities by these 35,000 inhabitants. Therefore, I consider this law to be no matter what my colleagues think it was or wasn't and no one can be Pharaoh. It's the Pharaohs from the county. I'm telling you it's not the Pharaohs, it's the feds, it's going to be a feudal relationship where they absolutely have a monopoly. ... To choose more congregations, to literally not to choose councils. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53423	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Skoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53424	Thank you very much. Well, here's my dear fellow Bull, you obviously haven't read these reports or conclusions or recommendations. Because through your reports, conclusions and recommendations, you didn't look back on a single word of the State Audit report. You looked back on your subjective impressions, because if you'd read it then you'd know that there's no enough here, no solution. Because then they'd know how to finance the ZUCs, they'd be financed from the revenues made in the local registration of cars. Then we would know that there is no chasing of trucks and looking for where to blacken the asphalt ahead of the elections, because only in Split-Dalmatia County at the moment we have completed 16 million kuna projects, so the road Sicane – Dicmo – Aržano – Grab – Lokvičići. So, all the Dalmatian Zagora. So, therefore, stop selling demagogy here in front of all of us. Accept, refer to the report, because the ZUCs have confirmed the absolute justification of their existence in this past time because we know, and you're as old as I am to know what the situation was until '97. the years when we had a centralized system in Croatia according to the Yugoslav model that managed a single driver and there was no even road development especially of local roads because then state roads were a priority. They're just in '98. according to the French model and founded ZUCs with the aim of correcting that wrong towards the county and local roads. And so, you've seen from all this that the ZUCs aren't even in charge, that they're very rationally managing, that 95% of the ZUC's income is being embezzled directly into the road, and everything else here is being eaten and untrue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53425	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53426	I don't know what you're nervous about? I mean, I could write down what the audit read, so say the revenues are 928 million, 918 million are expenditures, 2 million 450 goes to the administrative bodies. I can read it all, and just the county, your roads where you are the manager of the county roads down there, you were highly positioned and the problem of development of the Split-Dalmatia County. And the problem with Dalmatian burns is 100,000 people have gone away, only 100,000 people have left since the Split-Dalmatia County was formed. That's the result. And you know very well that it is very important for you to keep it politically that way. It's your political capital, it's your voters. You've got 50,000 votes right now. It's the only criterion for a party card. That's the problem that young people are leaving for, Mr. Škoric. I can read this all that the gentleman has stated. He cited the problems and the negative opinions he cited, but that's not the point. You came here and read these problems and said Croatia, a vehicle centre. I know what the Center for Vehicles is, he's a monopoliest, and I know how he went into his hands. But I'm saying the problem. Trucks chasing asphalt through Imotski, you can't go through to win the election, you know, in the second round for the mayor. Unbelievable! I can't describe it! Somebody paid for it! That's what the people paid for. So why the election? Why repeat the same asphalt when it is more important for people to have bread and have a roof over their heads or have a school or have a home of health so that they can be examined. That's true. That's the problem of the Dalmatian burning island. The problem of functioning the cycle system, the kind of feudal management you'd like won't get away with it. The only thing you have is your demagogy, you haven't read it. I read it. I'm on the board, and I know what I'm saying, but the fact is that this suits you, and this is the only way you have to win the election. Any change you can't make. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53427	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53428	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bull, I'm replicating you because I think you'll understand. Last time one of my colleagues attacked me. He says you're saying everything from your perspective. And who do I speak from? So the County Road Administration of Virovitica-Podravska County has revenues of 19 million 465 thousand 637 kuna. This report made it clear to me, and it was clear to me before, and now it's very visible and I've concluded it's hard to get out of poverty. We have projects, too. We have a village called Donja Villavo that needs several kilometers of road that still has no asphalt. You know, there's a part of the county road when a man dies people can't take a coffin there to the cemetery. These are the problems, the real problems we're living with. Here in Zagreb, in Novak, I've seen, I don't mind. Zagreb is developed, to be developed Istria, Rijeka. But I saw that there was an asphalt that would make us happy in Slavonia. It rips the asphalt completely good and puts on a new one. That's the problem, and we all, here we are, there we all stand at a little larger stadium in Europe, we all stop from my county. There's still room and we can park all our vehicles under that stadium. And we won't have that income either if we go for the number of vehicles, we can't. And I suggest that the government, as proposed by the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, let there be a fund for balancing, let it be transparent and let everyone have needs, for Christ's sakes of the 21st century we should have at least... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53429	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53430	So here... for them, as they last proposed a law on the financing of local self-government, which now here... which I supported. So, and here's the problem, there was a huge problem here that the means that are intended for roads are simply not transparent and where it is necessary to pave the way and be the road where development is possible. You can't just pave the way for a political key for the same road all four years. So I'm saying really here's gonna take it out somewhere, I can list some municipalities and we'll go here me and Mr. Škorić we're from the same county, I'll take out a sample, if there's no meter and a half of asphalt every time there's 5 cents when the elections. Any, always black asphalt, important to pave the way for it, that fact. No, this isn't funny. And while these people don't have bread in these municipalities and they're leaving young. Simply in this way trying to win points and of course through these ZUCs, county roads, it's good for these inter-coalization agreements at these levels, it's not a problem then who was in Milan, it was not, then all you solve, it's very important, it's a fabric for entanglement and it's certain that that money is directed to settle in a different way, that it would be much better and it would be extra funds much more than now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53431	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53432	Says counterpart Bulj, when the SDP was in power, gave the most to the Istrian County. And that's the lie you've repeated the second time in a few days. Both at the time of the SDP government and at the time of HDZ authorities and at the time of the authorities of you and HDZ, Most and HD when you gave the HDZ power twice as foolishly to twice as foolishly high, the Istrian County financed 800 million kunas of the Republic of Croatia's budget. There is no one square millimeter in Istria that could not have been paved if that money had not gone to the rest of Croatia from which your money was financed and your Metkovic, and your salary here and your two completely pointless governments. Therefore, the second time you insult Istrana and Istria County completely unfounded. 800 million kuna, it goes to your Metkovic, where you have no idea how to put together a program to get something, because you don't know anything about doing it. You can only replicate here without any connection.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53433	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53434	You see, you fellow, commend Stazic, ask if I really need more here. Thank you for your criticism, just keep criticizing because you haven't said a single fact exactly. First of all, I'm not from Metkovic. Second of all, when I run locally for a live bar, I get the election, you try it locally, I'm not on the local board, I live with these people, and I know the problems. I've been president of the local board for a long time, running and I know how people live and how county roads work, local roads, you don't care you're just a demagogue, you just want to share the people. And I didn't just mention Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County and Sibenik-Kninska and Mr. Djakic, therefore. However, you're always some kind of story, then you'll now have a division of autonomy that's fascist, anti-fascist, that's your theme that's all you know. The only thing you can do is insult. And maybe if you could explain to us here how to go to Brijuni a day with 7 kunas, that would be much more pleasant for us, and that would be better for the Mets to have, otherwise they're forgotten, as well as the Cetin end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53435	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Bulj, the allocation of funds belonging to the ZUCs should be clear and transparent. Which she wasn't in that year. And it is certain that Hajdas Doncic, as minister, has distributed the most to his county. And patched up all the roads, restored all the curbs, all the trails, all the settlements and suburban settlements. And it's visible and incomparable. Likewise, the director of Croatian Roads Mr. Kos in association with Hajdas Doncic and the SDP and IDS jointly arranged Istria, so one of the circular flows I think is probably on the floor a circular current or what is costing 90 million kuna about it was written by all the newspapers. The distribution of funds there no longer needs, in fact it is arranged there, there is no more alleys or juices that are not paved in Zagorje or Istria. And we want to talk about what happened in 2015. That before the elections, of course, every political option works itself, but the rest of us are cut off. In County my seven and a half million kuna less that year. In all the other counties, it was just as much less and everything went into these two. It's a strange miracle. A coastal-goran special. It had to be there forever because there are special people, there are special standards, there are special installations especially when SDP is there in power. So that transparency in these finances can be clearly seen through those years and through income and expenditure, through the miles and cubes of asphalt that have been installed, curbs, fictional slides and other, non-publicities that have been entered.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53437	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53438	Well, that's fellow Djakic, exactly what I'm saying. ...as which option, we are now talking about 2015 probably where the SDP was in power that he was his county, so now where is HDZ on his county. And that's the worst county road management, that's the worst thing, there's no strategy, no criteria, no plans, no funding plans, no plans, no plans, no plans are respected, it all comes down to elections and leaders in power, so there's no strategy, and there's mostly the cost of local self-government and the area where it could be a development project, and even roads are one of the key links, like a blood stream. I can explain it very simply. If there's something going on without a plan, but it's just for the sake of the vote, then there's no plan, there's no strategy, there's nothing. And in 2015, if it says so, the audit finding that it was given to someone without criteria, and it's obvious that we have indifference in financial plans, this one, means that it's simply not a good report for 2015. But I'd love to see it in 2017 too, so I'm really interested in what it's going to look like because it's been an election year, which is how the same funds were shared, and I'd like to see the county roads as they're paved out of these funds that we're giving. It is a separate question, and I repeat again, that it is impossible to pass through the Republic of Croatia when the elections are from trucks, asphalt without plans, without ideas, just give, give a vote, give a vote and give a vote. That's it. It's the only important strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53439	Thank you. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll finish work today. We'll start tomorrow at 9:30. The first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law on Homeland Security, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 149. Good afternoon. SESSION Interrupted at 17.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-10-18-0.u53440	The report on the financial audit carried out by the County Road Administrations for 2015 is the applicant of the State Audit Office. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the financial audit carried out by the County Road Administrations for 2015 is hereby adopted, please vote. I find that most of the 105 votes for, 5 abstentions, 5 against, concluded in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies.
