ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u38730	... Here's what I'd like to ask for is a break for the criminalization of a verbal delinquent, so where more and more people are being detained because they say some things on the Internet, that's the topic. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u38731	Since this is in line with the Rules of Procedure, I am giving a 10 minute break It's 16:45 P.M. [[Intruder Pernar: Thank you.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16.55 HOURS]] It is up to Ivan Pernar, a distinguished colleague on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u38733	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have been witnessing lately that more and more people are being arrested for verbal deliction. So some Croatian from Austria sends some sort of pious threat to the prime minister, and if that threat were serious, it would have been called for. But the state itself knows he's not serious, so then he says, "Here's when he gets back to Croatia for vacation time." Then we'll arrest him and send him to prison. And that case is just one in the sea of each other, where people are going to jail because of the threats of God. Now why am I saying this? Well, it's because he's turning out to be arrested only to be threatened by members of the HDZ, or by the people on the right. And I'm sure there's a lot of threats he's taking on the day side and the SDP company. I have no doubt that Milorad Pupovac has the same threats that come to him on, I won't tell the daily base, but often and no one has been arrested for it. So do I. People write things to me in public. They're publicly writing what Pernar needs this, that. Go ladies and gentlemen to forums, commentary articles, etc. But what? I'm not personally offensive. I think people say they don't say because they think now they don't know me or the Pupovec or the Prime Minister, but they just say because they're mad at us. Everyone has their reasons. We do politics. That's why we have a higher salary. And I think that the higher salary that we receive as representatives and that we live on the burden of the people should in some way be an alibi for those citizens who are blowing their fuse or valve on us. I would also like to say that there is an alarming problem, like in Požega-Slavon County, because 199 children will be enrolled in schools in the autumn and 8 teachers will be fired. You see, this problem is not being discussed in public at all, and people are being arrested for what I said to a verbal delinquent. Todoric doesn't threaten his arrest. He doesn't live in fear. And there are so many people who have never been arrested or processed, and they've done a lot more damage than some man who wrote something on Facebook. But as you can see, it's more dangerous to commit fraud, i.e. It is more dangerous to tell a member of HDZ or a bishop a few ugly words than to bring the company into debt over 50 billion kunas, contrive the living and the dead, etc. etc. So in some ways our country deals with a category of people who as such are not a threat to the country's survival. And those who are a threat to the survival of the earth are unfortunately untouchable. That's all I wanted to say. And I'd also like to say that I'm sorry to have so much weight on these injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I think everyone should use a replica board. If he disagrees to say why he disagrees, then there would be no offended tones. And here's a colleague from the Most today would be here. And what's most interesting is those colleagues from MOST when they were in power when I might have spoken in a similar dictionary that they are now speaking, and then Bozo Petrov took away my word. And as you can't do that, you can't do that, and now they're complaining and complaining. And if they were still in power again would be what I would say, so they change rhetoric depending on whether they're in position or not. That's one comical detail. It means the same behavior that would condemn them to be in power with HDZ right now. Now they justify it, they think that's the way to say it. And when I said that's how to say it, and then they said it and how Pernar you say it, etc. etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u38734	Thank you. The first item on today's agenda is: - Proposal for a national security strategy of the Republic of Croatia, - Proposal for a Law on the Homeland Security System. And I suggest we discuss it united with the Homeland Security System Act. There have been consultations between clubs, and it seems to me that a deal has been reached, so the debate on behalf of the clubs will take 20 minutes. That's the deal. Do you all agree? I believe there's no problem, I think that's okay. I also want to tell you that today at 3 p.m. there will be a report on the meeting of the European Council, which will be submitted by the President of the Croatian Government, Andrej Plenkovic, so that if this point is not finished by 15.00 p.m., then we will have an interruption, and we will discuss the report that will be submitted by the Prime Minister, and this point will continue after that. We'll do the same, here's my colleague Bačići, and the suggestion is that we do without a break, to do everything we planned for today, according to the announcements we gave at yesterday's session of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a question: Is there a need for a break, or can we go after work? ... Well, then I'll give you 10 minutes off, since we're waiting for the Prime Minister to arrive soon, and then we'll count at 9.50 to get back to work. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's 9:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41832	Dear President of the Parliament. You've declared a ten-minute break that lasted 15 minutes to welcome the prime minister here. I'm now looking for a 15-minute break so the prime minister can wait 15 minutes for us to figure out who's in charge of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41833	Comrade Stazic, that's no reason to take a break. If you have any other reason I'll grant you a break, but this is no reason. I asked to wait for the prime minister, he had other obligations, and I think that's correct, that the president came to this point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41834	Under the Croatian Constitution, the government is responding to the parliament and prime minister, so that is the constitutional reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41835	I agree with that, but I would remind you that there were a lot less Prime Ministers who came to the Croatian Parliament than Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, so I think his intention was very good and my intention was very good, so we have a debate that also includes the president of the Croatian Government. So in order for you to get a break, you have to tell me what the reasons are. That's not an adequate reason and I'm not giving you a break. I'd like to ask you if we could discuss our integrity and not argue with each other. What do you want? ? ... For what reason? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That is not the reason, if you think I have violated the Rules of Procedure, please contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. So we are now moving on to the debate, the debate is a united proposal for a National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and a proposal for a law on the Homeland Security System. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the material has been delivered to you in boxes. The debate was conducted by the committees responsible, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Defence Committee. You've received reports on the benches. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? With us are the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krsticevic. I assume he will further explain the proposal and will be the first on behalf of the prime minister, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41836	Good afternoon. Dear parliamentary deputies and MPs, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. I thank you for the opportunity to present today, together with the Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister of the Republic of Croatia General Damir Krstičević, a proposal for a National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, let me just take a brief look at my fellow Stazic's remarks, so the opposite of the usual practice of the Croatian Parliament today you had a break that I welcome, I think it's very good and excellent, though. However, following the daily work of the Croatian Parliament it was a big surprise so I had one meeting with regard to the many obligations we have these days in the government. I came as soon as I was informed that the breaks were gone, so I apologized it was not intended to show any respect for the Croatian Parliament, and even less for the representatives of this call. So if it's a misunderstanding, and I'm sure it is, please appreciate it. To me today, it is a pleasure to present the National Security Strategy, which is an outcome document which determines the strategic national interests and policies and instruments for their realization. In the past 27 years, we have come a very challenging and demanding way of gaining independence, defence of sovereignty and territorial integrity in the Homeland War, thanks above all to Croatian defenders and victims of the entire Croatian people, and thanks to the state wisdom of our first president in very complicated international circumstances, we have achieved both independence and international recognition and even affirmation within the international community, and then a significant role has been played by the emerging Croatian diplomacy which has made a major contribution on this trail. So one synergy of defenders, political will, Renaissance moment of the Croatian people, political state wisdom and the skills of political-diplomatic action have put Croatia in a position to achieve the dreams of many Croats for generations before us in the breaking years and for the world and for Europe. Today, 27 years after this break-in time, Croatia is free to say it has achieved all key strategic goals of the national mission. We have a circled territory, a regulated country, a legal order, we have reached high standards, we have met the criteria of the Council of Europe, the North Atlantic Alliance, the EU has circled all those processes that were involved in the first two and a half decades of our activities. We are also a member of the North Atlantic Union and the EU aware of our own responsibilities, but also of the need for joint efforts that would not only strengthen the objectives and activities of these two organisations but also contribute to global security and stability, especially on the European continent and our neighbourhood. Given the numerous threats and risks that come to the agenda of all countries and of all international organisations in such rapidly changing global circumstances. And it is our job to set up with basic framework documents those frameworks that allow us to recognize what these dangers are, what is most important, how we react to them and how this reaction should be in line with the high standards that exist in the world and Europe, and also to be complementary to the activities of the organisations that we are members of. Security threats, the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU, so the country that is the only one with France that has also nuclear weapons within the EU that is a permanent member of the Security Council, changes the EU's security foreign policy character. There are no dilemmas here, and we will surely conduct intensive discussions in the years ahead. It is therefore almost paradoxical that last year practically a day after the majority will of the United Kingdom's voter decided on the country's exit, the EU's global strategy on foreign and security defence policy was adopted. So maybe she didn't even get the right light and dimension she needed. We talked about it a few days ago, I'll talk about it this afternoon under the second item of the agenda, talk about the first year of implementation of that strategy. Give your contribution in response to EU members. At the same time, at a summit in Warsaw several weeks ago, the North Atlantic Alliance brought its Transatlantic Security Declaration, which is also a reference document that is important for Croatia as an ally within NATO. The security of our citizens, our state territory is one of the fundamental tasks of every country and every society, preventing security threats is a prerequisite for the development of the economy, achieving the well-being and prosperity of Croatian people, increasing the quality of life and the necessary demographic revitalisation of Croatian society. The democratic and stable political system also cannot act without security because the security of every citizen is, of course, a prerequisite for the stability of our country. I am therefore particularly pleased that in a very short time, given the experience that we had in 2010 and 2012, when there were two previous attempts to build a new national security strategy, once in coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, compared to the current 2002 document, for the second time, but none of these attempts ever came to the stage to be on the benches of the parliamentary representatives. This time, I would first of all like to commend the enthusiasm, energy and inclusiveness of the approach shown by Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krstičević, together with his team, because at the second session of our Government we formed committees that worked on both the strategy and the National Security System Act. So we needed it from the first days of November to this assembly debate practically less than eight months. I think that's an envious achievement and that in this way we show the seriousness that this government, in such complicated, global European and regional circumstances, attaches to the creation and adoption of such two important reference documents. I would like to thank everyone, especially the experts, not only from the system of state administration but also from the academic community, the highest public, the competent parliamentary committees and the representatives who participated in this process, made their contribution, their assessments, their suggestions, and a very sophisticated approach to the making of the document showed that at the end when it came to the stage of the committee, a very broad political consensus was reached on all sides of the political aspect. Which, by my deep conviction, documents like this have their own content and character and deserve it. I thank you for the contribution and for the civil society organisations that have also shown this example that partnership in this respect between state institutions, authorities and civil society actors and NGOs can give good synergy. I would also like to absorb the contribution of the President of the Republic and its associates who have also worked on this document. I think it is useful in view of the constitutional competences of the President of the Republic and the fact that it contributes significantly to the implementation of both this strategy and this law in the future, not only with regard to defence, security of the Croatian Armed Forces and of course Croatian diplomacy and foreign policy. We have respected MPs and MPs wanted this document that will be relevant to what other countries are doing today, almost all of our countries neighbouring, large countries, partners, key countries in the International Community, to adopt such documents in the period of about 10 years. This means that each country adapts to changing global circumstances. When the EU Strategy on Foreign Policy and Security of 2003 was revised a few years ago, when people looked back on a document just 5 or later than 10 years ago and, especially now, last year, it's almost amazing how much the circumstances changed, how much the atmosphere in the European neighbourhood, the Mediterranean, the Middle East, North Africa, sub-Saharan Africa changed, how many threats terrorism changed the map of internal and external security issues that are now inextricably tied up and where the timely action far beyond borders and Croatia, and even then our wider communities, this is the EU, can prevent security threats on our territory. It is also a message bearing this document that respects how important it is, and I am particularly thinking about the Law on the Homeland Security System itself, which has set the framework and in my opinion, to close certain gaps that have been detected by all competent authorities in terms of coordination, in terms of timely reactions to crises, to risks, regardless of the risks involved, whether it is a elemental accident or a migration refugee crisis, where it has been seen that this system must be able to respond more quickly to these crises, to better achieve coordination and synergy of all those who can contribute to any kind of prevention of any quality reaction. Therefore, it seems to me that these two documents will give additional power to all relevant state institutions involved in their fundamental documents on national security issues, that connecting through a system of coordination that will lead the vice-president of the government will be more effective than today and that we will be able to recognise threats by linking the system that our security services are doing, the system that the Ministry of Interior is doing, which is done by the Croatian police, which is done by the Ministry of Defence, which is done by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, we will know how to protect our critical national infrastructure, because that issue is also one of the first-class strategic issues of national security. And in this way, when these documents are adopted, and I believe that this will be the case, that their implementation at the stage of the mandate of this Parliament and of this Government will show what we do not see at this time today and we do not recognise that it can be better, but the authors of this document have already installed a single fuse in due time, which means that the future governments and future parliaments will be able to work in time to upgrade this document of this strategy and this law. And this is exactly the kind of message about a living document that adapts to our realities that gives him strength and gives me a deep belief that we have created a quality document in an inclusive way that will be the basis of all our activities in the area of national security and the system of homeland security. So much for the introduction, I would now ask the government's most responsible for making these documents, Deputy Prime Minister Krstičević, to say more in detail both on the strategy itself and on the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41837	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, the House of Representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I would like once again to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for supporting this process, this methodology of drawing up this strategic document. We, as you know, have an existing National Security Strategy since 2002. So 15 years she hasn't been updated. There were two attempts. In 2010, the process was conducted by HDZ and in this case, the Ministry of Defence worked on the process. I've spoken to these people why this process hasn't been brought to an end. And all that's good, positive from that process we put into this National Security Strategy. Behind that was the 2012 process. The process was led by the SDP, in which case the Foreign Ministry also spoke to the people of the process and everything that is good, we positively put into this strategic document. And now here's the third time, we've decided, as the Prime Minister said at the beginning of this government to go into this process and since the 10th month, the process has been very open, inclusive, we've used one methodology used by all developed democratic states in the West. So here I would once again at the end of this process thank all the people who participated in the process, there were very many people, more than 150 people, experts, independent experts, political parties, opposition parties. So the story was very, very open. Also, there were representatives of civil society, our defenders, defense associations, generals, so everyone could really, honestly participate. In all of this, we did counseling in full, 28 days. Each in this consultation had the possibility in Croatia to participate in the process of drawing up the National Security Strategy. And we were up to a lot of good positive comments and believe me, everything that is good, useful for Croatia, our Croatia, we have put all of this into this strategic document. We also made 8 round tables, from defense associations, through the general assembly, then the Association of Civil Society, representatives of the media, the academic community, the Croatian Association of Employers, with our partners, allies, so here I am, at the end of this process, glad that we brought this process to an end and that third time I hope that the process will be closed and that Croatia will have a national security strategy which is a key strategic document in the area of national security. What we noticed through the process of drafting the National Security Strategy is that Croatia needs a safety partnership. So without a safety partnership, it's very difficult to build safety. What we also want from this safety partnership to produce the system of homeland security that we already had in the Homeland War. This is the synergy, community and defence of the military, police, mountain rescue, fire, private sector, economy, academic community, to defend themselves and to free themselves later. And I think we still need that community in the Homeland Security system today. The second thing we want is for our home security system to be modern, but on the other hand, to be rational, efficient, and that it fits our tradition and that it meets our needs. We also put another point in place that once a year the Government should inform you of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and representatives of the implementation of the strategy, so that we can monitor this whole process of implementation of the National Security Strategy. And finally, the most important thing that is, which is our goal is that the security system that we're developing we have a security system and it's developing into continuity. And on this security system they worked, my predecessors worked, they worked all Croatian governments. Our mission is to improve it compared to the lessons learned, compared to all these events we see in Europe and with the goal that Croatia can react clearly to every threat faced by every modern society and thus Croatian society. As far as the law is concerned, it means parallel to strategy, because the strategy is always a problem in implementation. We just wanted to build a mechanism so that this strategy could be implemented, so we also worked on the National Security System Act. What is the purpose of this law? Why the law? Well, we've seen, from all those events in Croatia, we've had three crisis events. We had Gunya, we had Cornate, we had a refugee crisis. These three crisis events that happened to us were tested at that given moment by the state's ability to provide security for the people she was at risk. We also know today that we are dealing with the consequences of these crisis events. Today, we can ask the question, ‘ Have we responded best? ’ What are the lessons learned? Was the management system good? Was the command system good? Were there certain parts of the system that responded to these given situations? Could it have been an example in Gunya, could that cattle have gotten away the day before? Could the damage have been less? So these are lessons learned. And that's exactly what we want the system because only through the system, through synergy, through the binding of all these abilities that the state has can deal with all the threats and risks. Is it our job to keep our security system modern, but to be better, faster, more ready than those who pose a threat to us? And those who pose a threat to us want to be in front of the security system. So through this system of homeland security, we want all the problems we've had in managing these crisis situations we want to solve, we want to fix, we want to upgrade. Everything that's good we want to keep. What is most important in this system of homeland security is that this system must have the ability to predict, identify all threats and risks faced by Croatian society. And that key thing is prevention. By deterring as early as possible the development, and therefore we need a system of homeland security. The next thing is an important, important ability to respond in a timely manner to the threat or endanger the risk that Croatia has. And the key thing, and coordination, that system of homeland security is the management process, when we have a crisis situation, there's a crisis. And that is why it is very important for us to have this coordination for homeland security that meets regularly, weekly, monthly, as many times as it takes to assess the threat and risk, because we see that these risks are also very complex, that they are unpredictable, and that is why it is very important that we have a system that regularly monitors and proposes governments to take over crisis management. So, the government is this central body that follows and, as the Prime Minister said, and one document and strategy and the National Security System Act, we worked with great support, with the great help of the President of the Republic, the Office of the President of the Republic. And this very law, the system, gives us that possibility and synergy of all the components, but also synergy with the President, the Office of Presidents, to work together on this. And here, what I want in the end is one more responsibility for security. Threats are often seen as something that happens to someone else, far from us, which many think is not their problem, until it hits an accident or some kind of threat. Every responsible state, and I believe that our Croatia must adapt its security system, must plan and create a system of security, what I have said, which will be proactive, effective, faster, better and stronger. I once again want all of you to support that part because I believe that national security must be above the party's issue and that it is always seeking consensus and that it requires the alignment of positions and opposition. And to this process in continuity, everyone had the opportunity and I thank all those who gave, good, quality proposals and for the national security strategy and for the National Security System Act, as you have seen, the Law on the Homeland Security System is not going into emergency procedures, but in just two readings we want to listen to everything that is good, positive, useful for strengthening the safety system in the Republic of Croatia, so that it is a good strong mechanism for strengthening the security system in the Republic. Here, once again, thank you, thank you all for your engagement and for this proposal and I ask all of you to support the national security strategy and the National Security System Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41838	I thank both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Defence Minister, Damir Krsticevic. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? I'm sorry to have replicas. Before that, we have 10 replicas, five replicas for the Prime Minister, five replicas for the Deputy Prime Minister. First replica for Prime Minister Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41839	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The measure is clear to all that it is unfortunate that we do not have a 15-year national security strategy and surely this document is one key document that is very important for the stability of the Republic of Croatia, for the safety of all citizens and individuals. However, you mentioned Croatian defenders, that they are key factors, they are this resource and potential that can contribute greatly to the development of the national security strategy and the transfer itself to the ground by their experience in the Homeland War. But it is also a fact that the relationship with Croatian defenders on the issue of chapters open to Serbia, the judiciary, i.e. Serbia's legal jurisdiction and Serbia's jurisdiction over Croatian defenders from the Homeland War to be prosecuted and tried, i.e. The possibility of a small HAG is given, it should be stopped urgently, once again please, I am warning you that I was saying to stop this from happening to Croatian defenders. Croatian defenders were not aggressors, they defended the country and does not deserve Serbia to have such an impact. Why national security? Yeah. I'll ask you a question. Key, with all this, the system that needs to be secured, which needs to be well-coordinated, energy, water, telecommunications, these are the key things that we need to be careful about. We see that we've lost our telecommunications with one of the greatest privatisations our parents have ever paid, it's gone into foreign hands. This system is very important for security and stability. We have to fight to the pain, to the pain we have to fight to keep it in our hands in Croatian and tell me if it will build a Croatian state, an optical network, or build someone else? Croatian defenders fought for state And we have to defend this to the pain. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41840	The reply to the replica of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41841	Thank you. Here, my colleague Bulj, you have had several points, so we agree that it is good to adopt a new document after 2002, I suppose we have a consensus here on Chapter 23, the Law on the jurisdiction of the Serbian state institutions in the process of war crimes, we have had several problems both in this Assembly and at EU Council level and in the context of Chapter 23 and several years in the European Parliament resolutions concerning Serbia's progress reports in the EU negotiations process. You know for a fact that this is a question that Croatia has a very strong and unique position on it. So, the protection of Croatian citizens, especially Croatian defenders, in a way that, in our consensus opinion, it is not normal for the institutions of Serbia, so above all, prosecutors and courts, to have hybrid extended jurisdiction, not universal jurisdiction, because that is a huge difference, we have, too, that many other states that are always subordinate in terms of criminal prosecution where the institutions of some other states have failed. And this here is a clean copy of the catalogue of works from the Statute of the Hague Court with the aim that a country that was an aggressor to the Republic of Croatia may, for crimes committed on our territory by our citizens against our citizens, lead the process. And that's where I think we agree. The process of Serbia's EU accession negotiations has been raised several times, will remain on the agenda. The negotiations on Chapter 23 will take years and our intensities to resolve this issue and to avoid endangering our citizens in any way. And as for this last question, I will bring him into contact with critical national infrastructure in the context of this law. We have recently received 101m euros to build a broadband network, as you know, and you've seen the announcements. [[Intruder President: Thank you Prime Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41842	Another replica, distinguished counterpart Glasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41843	Dear Prime Minister, General Krsticevic. This will be an answer for both of you. We've heard it took 15 years for this strategic document, of course it's just a framework, and on the military side I can say that I'm impressed by the work that this team's spent building this document. They were talking about some key things for the military, for example. Active reserve, Centre for Learned Lessons, etc. ...all fighting tribes were involved, that's the most important thing. Also there I saw from soldier, officer to general, of course there was General Gotovina, it was an inclusive team that worked on all this, there was not much forgotten about the army. On the issue of the strategic document, I think he puts Croatia where it belongs, there Podunavlje, the Mediterranean, and Central Europe, not on the Balkan gudours as some wanted. There are also the foundations of the Croatian state, the Homeland War, the Croats in BiH, the Croatian diaspora and our defenders of course. In terms of internal threats, of course, this is a framework that will be developed. I'd say that document also rejects some failed doctrines and failed social experiments that some advocate, which these people don't have half here today, it's seen how concerned national security is. They're worried about something else and we see here that they're empty benches. I will support this document, of course, and there is an implementation, and that depends on all of us, of course, because we Parliament is an important link in implementing this plan and implementation program. And we all need to roll up our sleeves and transfer that leadership, the initiative to the lowest level to implement this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41844	Thank you very much. There's no response to the replica. Third replica. ... No, he can't now because the replica was sent to the prime minister. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The next replica, dear counterpart Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41845	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. In your presentation, you reminded us of the synergy of the creation of the Croatian state, the synergy of state wisdom and the efforts of Croatian defenders who defended the Croatian state. But you forgot to mention another important political fact from that historic era, which is that in the Homeland War there are prevailing divisions that were burdened by the Croatian people, which draw their roots from World War II. And these exactly are the divisions that are the greatest threat to our national security, and these are the very divisions that are most opposed to our national interest. The first Croatian president worked very intensively and dedicated to overcoming these divisions and demonstrated his state wisdom there. The consensus new after the Homeland War on this issue has been codified in the Croatian Constitution in the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution. In this sense, we also think that in the National Security Strategy, on the basis of the Homeland War and the values of the Homeland War, there must be another foundation for our statehood mentioned in the Constitution, which is antifascism. Croatian defenders must also be represented, of course, but also Croatian anti-fascists without whom the country would also be absent and many MPs today would be sitting perhaps in the Italian or Hungarian parliament, but not in Croatian. In this sense, the SDP will submit two amendments where we will seek to register both the values and the anti-fascism fluids, along with the values and liquids of the Homeland War. If this government truly believes in the politics of the first Croatian President Tudjman, especially in the reconciliation policy that he has promoted, if this government really believes in overcoming divisions and their seriousness and harmfulness for Croatian national interests, if this government truly believes in the Croatian Constitution and its original foundations, I hope and expect that you will support the amendments and thus provide full support for the SDP to this document, which will result in a truly state and supranational character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41846	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41847	Thank you, esteemed colleague Klisovic, for your replica, i.e. comment. When you submit amendments to this strategy, the government will consider them. When it comes to the issue of division in society, the creation of an inclusive tolerance atmosphere, so I would say that this government contributes to it every day. We have also contributed to this election campaign for this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, unlike your then president, we all remember that very well, and we know that very well. The fact that you mentioned the first Croatian President Dr. Francis Tudjman and his reconciliation policy are extremely important and extremely important. In the 1990s, we were in a situation where there was aggression of the large Serb Milosevic regime in Croatia. And that's a fact, that's what we all agree on. In such circumstances, the first president could recognise that the topics burdened by Croatian society, the Croatian entity, either in the country or in the diaspora were not the main ones, unlike other Central and Eastern European countries, which precisely dealt with the issues facing the past in the 1990s. Croatia did so for objective reasons and for the fact that it is a question we can say freely in some way opened and closed with the idea of reconciliation, with the idea of unity of all our people in the Homeland War, we left the topic for later. And that is why a council to deal with the consequences of the non-democratic regimes has been established, tomorrow afternoon will have a meeting to be led by the president of the HAZU, academic Kusic. And I believe that the work of this council will help reduce tensions in Croatian society and find consensus on key historical topics. And that's what we're going to stand for and we're going to consider your amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41848	The 4th replica is an esteemed colleague of the Vesligai, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41849	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister. Yes, as counterpart Klisovic said, you have very well described and given important importance, most importantly in one period of Croatian history and this is a country war and we will all agree on this. However, we must agree that the borders of today's Croatia are drawn at the meetings of the National Anti-fascist Council of National Liberation of Croatia and the Anti-Fascist Council of People's Liberation of Yugoslavia. So someone else is responsible for today's appearance of the Republic of Croatia that we defended in the Homeland War. It is responsible for Istria, for Međimurje, for islands, for large parts of Dalmatia. This is due to an anti-fascist movement whose merits and achievements are in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And just as every movement has its own symbols, it has some leaders, so there are anti-fascist movements and one of their symbols is Joseph Broz Tito, whom your party has here, despite the doctrine you call the first Croatian president today, moved the square in the city of Zagreb. And for the sake of the check, it's dr. Franjo Tudjman felt that Tito and the anti-fascist movement were important and in several of his public appearances did so again? That's, that's the facts. And if we are already calling for community and this is here today often used word in the Croatian Parliament in this debate, then we must not reject civilizational values such as antifascism because for him, many Croatian citizens, your Dalmatians, have given their lives more than 3,000 died at the Battle of Sutjesca. Did you send them a wreath, maybe? It was recently an anniversary, of course not. Today, unfortunately, the vision of history is created by various revisionists who do not even respect the fundamental legal act of this country, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41850	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41851	Thank you, esteemed colleague of the Vesligai. So when it comes to the Croatian Constitution, the antifascism that is embedded in the preamble of the Constitution, I think that's where we all share those values. I do not believe that there is anyone in this Croatian Assembly who will not say that the foundation for, one of the foundations for achieving independence and international recognition, so if we will and legal basis was the 1974 Constitution. There are no dilemmas. But what we need to do is to do a distinction is antifascism during the Second War and a non-democratic regime after 1945, and that's the key, that's that fine sophisticated distinction. I guess the SDP also agrees that those two concepts are not exactly the same. That it was not exactly the same as what was happening on the Gol island and in other similar places or, say, the action of state terrorism on members of Croats abroad. It's not the same thing. And that is why, in this debate that we purposely put it again and again, in the context of a particularly formed council in which people who are not involved in politics are chosen in a very plural way, and all Croatian institutions, in which both lawyers and historians and politologists are concerned, can contribute to the work. I expect them to expect that this is exactly the kind of interference of current topics at the city's assembly with the topic of the National Security Strategy, which, at the time of Prime Minister Ivica Racan's government, did not meet the issue of anti-fascism in that strategy in 2002. So let's try to make a distinction between politics and what would be day-to-day political positioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41852	Thank you. Next replica, dear fellow Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41853	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary. I have read this National Security Strategy with attention and we believe that it is comprehensive, we believe it responds to the current challenges and current issues and puts the problem of national security in a much wider context than usual. What you'd like to say is next. We appreciate the fact that the fourth chapter pays attention to the rights of national minorities. I think it would be good to do so in previous rights, the subject of human rights, freedoms and so forth, given the importance of the policy of achieving the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. As one of the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution, which is national equality. In that sense, our club will propose a kind of amendment and try to agree with the minister. The second thing that we seem to particularly appreciate, and also in chapter 4, we talk about suppressing different, third, and then in the fourth, different forms of extremism, hooliganism, hate speech, hate crimes and so forth. We would think that, Mr. Prime Minister, it would be good to promote a culture of tolerance and a culture of peace. It is an important element in national security, an important element in the development of consciousness and development probably and educational policies that we have missed over the past years. And finally, you, Mr. Prime Minister, will understand, I am quite sure, better than many others, when it comes to politics in our neighbourhood, in the region of Southeast Europe. The lack and lack of trust-promotion policy, trust-building and dialogue is something that can help resolve open issues and crisis points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41854	Thank you. Replication response, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41855	Dear fellow Pupovac, thank you. I'm glad that you're satisfied with the fact that the national security strategy has recognised the contributions of national minorities, I think any suggestion that would be more precise and persistently precise to what we want to say in this regard will be welcomed. When it comes to the culture of reconciliation, establishing trust and overcoming animosities that have existed for logical reasons over the past years in relation to neighbouring countries, so I think that this very government, in this respect, is trying to be very careful, both in its communication and in its actions. In the past 10 months, I haven't noticed that anyone in the government has tried to score some political points trying to put the differences between Croatia and its neighbours first. And we do this knowingly, deliberately, perhaps even to the detriment of a certain vote more in some elections, but we do it with the belief that the time has come, so 22 years after the Croatian territory was released, 19 years after the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube, that all these difficult historical heritage and open issues, we can solve dialogue, talks, diplomacy, political contacts, instruments of international law. There are a number of residual issues that burden us, with which we are not satisfied, which long await a solution, such as missing persons. It's something that those families that are concerned about and it's a daily topic for them. The topic on the political stage is not every day. And it is our job to do this in dialogue with those who have gained confidence in neighbouring countries, in democratic elections, to solve techniques that will contribute to reconciliation, reconciliation and resolution, rather than new misunderstandings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41856	Thank you. We now move on to the replicas sent to the Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krsticevic. The first replica of the distinguished colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41857	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr Krsticevic, I am pleased that you said that this law that goes and the strategy that goes in all readings will be an opportunity to make concrete proposals and remarks. So I'm going to make a concrete proposal. I hope you won't answer me like this bureaucratic, so say it, is it inside you just don't see it or it's an integral part of the system, I'd like to see it anyway. So here's when we talk about every system, every home security system, for sure that all the participants in that system, should have the necessary knowledge and skills, of course people should have the material conditions and what we can't possibly forget is tradition. The tradition we have, the one we care for, so here is the tradition of some up to 150 years old. Namely, you mentioned the fire department here in your explanation. And you said the firemen were involved in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. But what bothers me personally, anywhere, neither in strategy nor in law is mentioned by firefighters. I think that word should be mentioned there, for a few reasons. One is already because there are real threats, we witness every day that there are fires that occur in the Republic of Croatia, and that are quite demanding to put out. We're not going to mention the tragedy that happened a few years ago, but we haven't found any reason yet. On the other hand, it is a message of both government and parliament's intention to pay attention to the fire department. We always talk about fire, the railroad, so it's always said conveniently, we all agree, but nothing concrete is ever solved. The co-ordination in which you will be president was incorporated by the Director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, but did not form the Director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue formed a fire department in Croatia. He only came as a roof man to whom the chief fire commander was an assistant. So here you put in coordination, the chief fire commander and mention in the strategy one word about firepower, I think that's going to be much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41858	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Krsticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41859	Dear colleague Sagar, a comment not bureaucratic but what you said very operational because I am a man regardless of this function, from the field. Fire Department, that's our value and in the strategy is recognised through the Civil Protection System, means as well as as value. Under the Law on the Homeland Security System, too, means our firefighters get them out of this place, I thank them for everything they do, in the continuity they do. And the other day and constantly related to the ceasefire and the Adriatic, and we must be proud of all our ground firepower, and surely you have seen and within the Croatian Army it is this fire squadron. And in this coordination they're here. So we have no right to exclude anyone from this process, from the Homeland Security system. Well, that's why the system is, that's why it's all about synergy, processes, joint work, and there's certainly all the fire department, there's certainly also a co-ordination assistant director for the fire department. Well, you saw the other day that I was directly together when the situation was also around Makarska, Tucepa went on the ground and that together we all watched how to put this situation under control and again learn from these processes by being on the following cases better. We all know together that there are a lot of problems that we're looking for and new equipment, that are looking for new funds, and I believe that right through that system that we're going to open up through the conversation, through priorities find ways to improve that in one process. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41860	Thank you. Second Replicator Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41861	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Krsticic finally came before parliamentary deputies what every serious state should have in continuance, which is the National Security Strategy. And the fact that it's a shame that we haven't had any way so far, that it couldn't have been done, and you're really in this process that's been opened through both committees and through the public, here's what we have in front of us is a document that can, in time and in time, both be written and done, which can be essentially implanted new elements of the threat. The fact is that we see that they are divided in society, but the fact is that the foundation of the modern Croatian state is the Homeland War in which you have played a very important role. The Homeland War, where all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and national minorities and sexes participated in the defence of the Homeland, is certainly still recognized by this force and this experience that needs to be implemented. And the National Security Strategy in implementation must not be just a dead letter on paper. It must be, so what you well know is well coordinated, well trained and well synchronised. But the fact is, the fact is when we mention today's systems and examples that you mentioned, an example of Gunja that really people have all been involved, all levels of schools, kindergartens, and mostly defenders of the Homeland War and that potential should be used here. My question is, and you've already made some moves, and that's mostly in the empty areas of the military schedule, i.e. The armies of Sinj, Vukovar and others, the plates where you plan in those areas where it is being moved from the people. I'm asking you one more time in front of the public, you told me about the military deadline. Can you tell the public exactly what you think of the military's mandatory and reserve period. The fact is that it is very important to reserve the Croatian Army, that we do not have it which is a very important element of every threat that can be raised These units are reserved. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41862	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41863	Dear fellow Bull, thank you again very much for the replica. As far as the strategy is concerned, thank you and support this strategic document, which is very important and necessary to strengthen the security system in Croatia. That's what we do. Another very important thing, I think we'll agree, that's what I want to do again. A country war that God would give, if it hadn't been for him. But I think it is the cornerstone of the modern Croatian state, that together in this aggression which was brutal towards Croatia we have managed to defend and later free ourselves and that Croatian defenders are the cornerstone of the Croatian state. As far as the Croatian Army is concerned, you have seen since the start of this government's mandate from a larger budget to strengthen the Croatian Army, to work on a new schedule, so as you know, the military will be in Vukovar by the end of the year in Sinj. Here you are invited at the end of the month me and the prime minister will come, so the troops of the Croatian army we returned to Sinj. And what awaits us is another Croatian army unit in the Tablets. Here's Mr. Orepic, I hope that part next year we can get the army back to Ploče. And what awaits us is Varazdin. We are still waiting for us on the Croatian Army issue of, meaning fighter planes. But I hope, that decision is difficult, complex, Croatia has been delayed and I hope that this government is doing well in that we will do so by the end of the year and this ability that matters to us as well. As far as the military deadline is concerned, you know the attitude. When we saw through the strategy, it was a key strategy. What we recognized when we analyzed the threats and the risks we need more abilities, we need more abilities. We need to expand the base of existing abilities so that we can cope and on this very trail we are working on technical preparations for basic military training in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41864	Thank you, Minister. The third replica is the esteemed counterpart Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41865	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, for saying in your statement that the National Security Strategy should have one extra-party character that I agree with. And you said you consulted the strategies prepared by the SDP government, and I can confirm that. And I think it's a good investment in the long term of this strategy, and I particularly like that you took over some newspapers that we had there, including the concept of individual security, as well as the declaration of protection and promotion of Croatian national interest, from national interest to the Republic of Croatia. The consensus is important and it will be the greatest value of this strategy if it is adopted by consensus. But the values we believe in and the divisions we want to overcome must be part of the strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia. The constitution has clearly regulated this and we all agree on this, but this must also be a national security strategy. The commission in... with Istria mentioned by the bridge, it can be a good aid, but it certainly cannot free the government from responsibility to make decisions when it comes to the values of anti-fascism and anti-fascist struggle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're talking about antifascism here, not the character of the regime that followed. Because if we go back at that time, west of us were states that fought colonial wars and where concentration camps worked, too. Intelligence did their dirty work. In the east of us, the gulates were working, so no one was innocent at that time, it's important to learn the historical truth without defiled values. And that is why I think it is crucial that the government accepts the amendments that the SDP will submit so that this document can be consensually adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41866	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41867	Dear colleague Klisovic, thank you very much for the replica. This team and this process, as you saw which was very inclusive, open, we were engaged in the profession. Most of the profession, and that's why we're from the position of the profession, what's important for the security system, so together we've made this strategic document, the national security strategy. I think in the strategy of national security from the position of profession, danger, risk, threat, or the ability that we need, everything we need, I think it's there. As far as the law is concerned, the law is also an operational document needed by Croatia to strengthen security so that through one synergy we can deal with all these threats and risks. You all think it's good for the security system, as you do so far, put it, we will consider and say once again, what will strengthen us, which will strengthen the security system, which will strengthen the capabilities we need in the military, police, security intelligence system, mountain rescue service, firemen, in people who are working in the security system today, they are the key, I fully thank them and from this place, because thanks to them we can say that our security system is stable, but our tasks, all of us, through our budgets, through our activities, do everything to make these abilities, their equipment, their living conditions and their work in those areas, their standard of being better and more quality, and I believe that today, for the sake of security, the most important and necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41868	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41869	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Government, you said in your address in fact a few things, which should be repeated here because of the truth, so, a strategy that was until 2002, we were not 15 years old, 2010 was in... one inter-resorship commission and commission, and one draft strategy was made, but the government found no Kukuriku coalition for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that this strategy is actually continued, simply to be adopted as such and here after 15 years we have this strategy here in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said that this strategy is also followed by the National Security System Act because of one management process, because of one process that is very important in crisis situations, and the key to all of these was the triggers that were related to the Kornati, related to Gunja, i.e. the refugee crisis that some 618 thousand refugees went through in Croatia. I will return to and at the time that was related to Gunjo 2014 at the 5th month, when it actually took that government 6 days to form a headquarters in County so that it could be organised then. During that time, people were bringing food, citizens were organizing outside the Arena Center, that food was, of course, corrupt because no one was taking care of it at that time, in fact, missing that management headquarters even though we had then the Rescue Protection Act where it was all stated how it behaves in these crisis situations. I want to mention during the Homeland War, we received half a million refugees, and then we organized schools, and kindergartens and health care, we even had animal quarantines, we took care of a lot of good things, and then in 2014, we didn't take advantage of it, so I welcome this strategy, I am glad that consensus has been reached and that it will contribute to one effective and good actually protect the population in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41870	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41871	Dear Parliamentarian Babic, thank you very much for that comment. As we've seen, the crises are difficult, they're complex. When the only thing happens, I think if we're going to professionally, the only solution is the system, but the system and exactly what you said, that system must have an effective security risk management system. What does that mean? It's a process, so the first stage of research into threats and risks. So we already have to work on it. The second stage is preventive action, so we want a system of homeland security and the third crisis event that is happening to us, a united response. That's why we said we want a system of homeland security. What is the purpose of this system, for what? You can ask a question. So just build a secure environment, build a safe environment, promote, protect the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, take care, care about the protection of people, the economy, infrastructure, natural resources, national sovereignty. And for what? And precisely because of the overall economic development and prosperity of the Republic of Croatia. And what we said was a vision, what do we want through the Homeland Security system, except for purpose? It is a unique functionally defined security system, where all components of the system will first be told which components, work together and in the planning phase, which is very important, in the security risk management phase, in the phase of strengthening national security. And what's very important is the value of that system. The values of the system are freedom, man's dignity, patriotism, respect for human rights, transparency, legality means we will establish it all together through the Homeland Security System.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41872	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41873	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President and Minister. First of all, it seems to me that you have prepared a good document in view of the debate that is taking place here in a very complex atmosphere, which is a good sign. But I have come to you with a replica to confirm what some colleagues have already said and what you mentioned, and I don’t think it would really be bad for the document, even if it were found in the brackets by firemen and the Red Cross as two main institutions that are always at each opportunity at hand. But that's not why I answered. I answered because somehow I have the impression that the strategy does not highlight the most important production, domestic food production. I think I may not have read well, but I think that in any case domestic food production should have a particularly prominent place in the national strategy because there is basically nothing to eat, there is no more important production, and in this way we stress what it says in the strategy to help and preserve life in rural areas and rural areas in itself. I think that domestic food production is definitely something that should be in a more prominent place because it sends a message to citizens about the safety of having food, and on the other hand we send a message to those who should be involved in this production so that they can deal with this production. I think this document really should be particularly highlighted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41874	Thank you very much. The answer of the Honorable Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41875	Thank you, colleagues, for putting up a replica. As you said about the fire department I already said he's part of the system and certainly it has a prominent place and must have. As regards production, they can also read once more "RH will policy measures by encouraging industrial production, food production creates conditions for dislocation of certain industrial activities from larger industrial centres towards less developed and populated areas", etc., etc. "The sustainable development of the village, rural space will be ensured by encouraging investment in development projects, the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture will be strengthened" by encouraging, once again, production of capital investments, and investment in modern technologies and from the knowledge of agriculture. There's still so much that we can't expect this national security strategy to solve everything. So every sector needs to make sectoral strategies, meaning specifically with more things how exactly what you say is what you say that I support production, especially food, so that this food production is much bigger in Croatia, that potential and that our producers can do much better once again. And clearly there is the task of the state to develop our village and our agriculture through concrete incentive measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41876	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. And rights will be spoken on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists by the distinguished representative Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41877	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the representatives of the proponents of General Krstic's minister with my associates. Dear fellow MPs. The proposal for a National Security Strategy and the Proposal for a Code on the Homeland Security System suggest that in the Republic of Croatia, awareness of the thinking of security and defence as a crucial part of the survival and prosperity of the state is beginning to awaken from modern threats. The existing National Security Strategy is now very old and, due to its content and changed circumstances, it has indeed grown up to new challenges today. It is clear that a new strategy should be developed and adopted which will be up to the new challenges and circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia is located, so we support the need to adopt a new strategy that needs to detect basic threats and challenges of the security of the Republic of Croatia. The existing document that we have on the benches today is a good basis for further work. In the large part, it well detects security challenges and directions in which the potential and capabilities of the Republic of Croatia should be developed, but in some parts it has forgotten to add more attention to some of the security threats of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens as well as guidelines for their resolution. So it's a general document, a high strategic level, but it doesn't require any specific recipes and concrete procedures to solve problems. It should look at the situation, define problems and at least in principle indicate their general pathways of solution. The concept of Homeland Security is based on the integration of all defence and security entities of the Republic of Croatia in order to make the most effective use of all its personnel and material capacities in the event of the need to defend and protect its internal security and is certainly the most constructive in the defence and security system that should take place since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of all shortcomings, opens a new, quality perspective for further development and modernisation. Unfortunately, however, we are deeply convinced that both strategies and national security and the National Security System Act are a political compromise and the current maximum, which remains the problem of understanding modern threats and thus the modern concept of defence and security. Where's the main problem? The problem is that the law does not answer what we defend and who we defend with. The law provides answers to what we defend ourselves against, and therefore it has not given an answer and cannot answer the question we are defending because the Republic of Croatia has not defined itself, has not defined its national development. When the National Development Strategy is defined and developed, then we will be able to define the last item of our defence, which is what we defend. The Law and the National Security Strategy are also not competent and cannot answer the question with whom and which we defend in terms of the existence of competent, educated and equipped people and mechanisms and tools for economic defence. In order to understand the question of what we defend and then who we defend with and with whom we should understand the following concepts. Technological development and globalisation have imposed the need to review the values for which wars have been waged today, either by territory or by the crown, or by the government of the state. The values currently managed by the world or at least control are critical elements and the systems that produce them are provided so-called. the critical infrastructure systems while the territories on which they are located are called interest areas, zones, regions, living environments, which are energy and energy, food and water, ecology and waste management, information, communication systems and transport, banking financial system. The particular problem is today's views that the Constitution defines both the fundamental values of the state and the nation, which are sovereignty, territorial integrity, integrity, multilaterality, multiculturalism and multi-religiousness. All these values of the category are the result of the civilization's liquids of Western civilization and should certainly be valued and defended. But is sovereignty and integrity strictly defended by tanks at the border? On the basis of a change in the paradigm of targets and targets of war in which territorial conquest is not intended, it is necessary to ask what political will is then imposed and to ensure economic dependence. The answer is basically very simple, economic means and, if necessary, all conventional and non-conventional methods and forms that are most often not armed aggression and most often do not carry out armies. It is not a question of what all the National Security Strategy should include but whether the National Security Strategy or the National Development Strategy should be adopted first. Modern concepts of national security are firstly the security of the economy. In particular, the first state, the people, the nation, must think about what, which and with whom they will build their prosperity. Therefore, the first document of the countries is the National Development Strategy, which is, together with the Constitution, legally framed, the basis for the development of implementation strategies, economic, security, education, health and more than 20 of them. If we had a strategy of national development we would not wander for 25 years without a clear vision of what Croatia is and what it should be and should not be and the policies and directions of action change with every new government and new party ideologists. Therefore, the National Security Strategy and the Homeland Security Act have not provided and cannot provide complete economic security because it is not their concern, that is not their role, they defend the economy from natural and anthropogenic threats to systems available. As the authors themselves have now mentioned in quality co-ordinated and up to now existing and autonomous defence and security systems of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, the judiciary, the intelligence system, civil protection, the fire that needs to be placed, healthcare, etc. Economic security also stemming from the National Development Strategy and also economic defence designs and implements policies through state bodies. First of all, the Ministry of Economy, Agriculture, Tourism, Finance, Education and Justice. The economic defence of its very important segment also implies the overall organisation and willingness of the state to ensure its economic and production capacities the maximum self-sufficiency of production and the created strategic defence stock reserves in cases where international and partner assistance based on collective security and defence cannot be expected and these are regional and global conflicts, global anthropogenic and natural disasters and pandemics. Some proposals, which cite security threats, risks and challenges for the Republic of Croatia, corruption in the Republic of Croatia as one of the biggest threats to national security in the strategy, are dedicated to practically only one small passage on page 8 where, among other things, it states: "The most common forms of corruption are related to public procurement procedures and to the issue of various permits and consent." We disagree with that, the most common forms of corruption are even more than public procurement, online employment, political staffing, data manipulation and processes that are the holders of the functioning of the state. Trade in political power is one of the most dangerous forms of corruption, which is unfortunately very prominent in the Republic of Croatia and is becoming a standard form of behavior that even top officials justify as an entirely ordinary and moral way of acting as authorities, which we are aware of these weeks. Strategic objectives give attention to strengthening the capacity and ability of police to detect and combat crime. However, it is ignored that a number of institutions are in charge of fighting crime especially those whose financial importance has been neglected. It should be recalled that some of the biggest financial, economic and corruption needs helped both the deliberate or messy work of those institutions that did not recognise the dangers and risks of certain ones, only closed their eyes, individual actors, or even in certain situations were aware of the damage that occurred but closed their eyes. Let's remember the FIMI-MEDIA affair, INA-MOL, Agrodor, the illegal business of banks. Only some of Croatia's difficult strategic and very dangerous blows are that threaten the stability of Croatia because at their core they are jeopardising the economy of the state and putting institutions and citizens in a position of subjugation relative to the corrupt centres of power. We therefore believe that in the next period, the problem of lack of control over monopoly concerts must be articulated. The strategy ignores state bodies that are in developed democracies very important pillars of society. Today's situation in which Croatia is situated clearly shows that the construction of Croatian state-owned financial supervisory and judicial institutions is low, and therefore the strategy needed to give a stronger emphasis on strengthening these institutions as well. To the truth, on page 21 of the strategy states the reaction of the competent state authorities to violations of the law and the punishment of illegal practices has a strong general and preventive effect which contributes to the protection of fundamental constitutional values, human rights and citizens' rights. The judicial system will adapt to new forms of law endangerment which will create favourable conditions for the overall social development of Croatia. However, the strategy does not provide guidance to strengthen the ethics and capacity of the judicial system as well as to the direction of investment in the judicial system. Also on page 22, the Republic of Croatia states that strengthening the integrity of public authorities' responsibilities and transparency will curb corruption in public affairs and boost citizens' confidence in state institutions. Anti-corruption mechanisms will be strengthened, co-operation and the ability of public authorities will be improved, and support the role of citizens, civil society and media in detecting corruption. However, we hold that these formulations without clearly defining the most common corrupt forms are the general stages. Unlawful employment through political lines, political staffing without adequate skills, an undeveloped system of responsibility, must be clearly and specifically identified as major threats to the National Security Strategy. Developed corruption, a completely undeveloped system of responsibility, is a fertile ground for destabilising every country. And disrupting the possible prosperity of all its citizens. With regard to the whole text of the strategy, we hold that it is necessary to clearly determine where the Republic of Croatia will be in bilateral and mutilateral relations, in particular with regard to the contract and to ensure that it is located in a specific economic, political and security area and that it will take into account, in that sense, that some of the bilateral or multilateral contracts, the Republic of Croatia may no longer be considered as meaningful and in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, so that the termination of such contracts should be considered if they are no longer in line with the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We say this especially because many international disputes in which Croatia has found themselves are governed by the rules of the treaty that have proved unfavourable for Croatia, both in terms of the rules applicable to and on the financial cost where the most frequently run in America, rather than leading to Europe. In order to clarify, too, it should be pointed out that some of the international contracts from which Croatia has the right to come forward due to mutual interests and other states can be quickly broken down to mutual benefit. So, the Republic of Croatia needs to define its relationship with allies in the strategy. First of all those from NATO and the EU, but it should definitely be clearly defined that in this relationship it is primarily for the sake of its security and that the starting point of participation of the Republic of Croatia in these organisations is the interest of Croatian citizens. So that it is therefore necessary to think more clearly about the overall policy with allies and what activities these alliances and alliances will be involved in. In this respect, a clearer definition of Croatia as one of the equal members of the Union and the alliance is needed, not as one of the secondary actors. In this text, the proposed strategy does not give a strong enough emphasis on the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia as part of such alliances. Something compared to the media. The strategy has completely neglected the fact that media expertise is one of the backdrops of social development. The sensational and populist approach to media-interesting topics poses a threat to the regular functioning of the state. The strategy completely overlooked the danger of educated media, mostly network and electronic, unknown owners and editors using social networks, quickly and efficiently spreading panic, mistrust, and introducing destabilisation. The media today are not just newspapers and TV stations, the media has developed in all fields, they can manage large distances with small financial and human resources, and they can also cause major social changes, so they have set up an effective tool for endangering society. The non-transparentity of media work has also become one of the things that the strategy should have taken into account. We therefore propose to recognize the great phenomenon of the so-called “. ” false news as well as false research that floods the media space and result in decisions based on false facts and an increase in populistism. Unfortunately, we are increasingly witnessing the influence of such news and election results in some countries. This one was specifically warned by the Peace Studies Centre in its e-consultation. In particular, it is an interesting formulation in part of the evaluations, sources and means to implement this strategy. To implement this strategy, they say, it will require a gradual increase in defence funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia according to the target 2% of GDP, respecting the fiscal and economic opportunities of the Republic of Croatia. So this strategy is very much touching the finances of our entire society, of our economy and of all segments of it. And that's much broader than the very context of national security and defence. At the moment for the Republic of Croatia, it would be better to give up the decision to allocate 2% of GDP to Armed Forces and reduce that amount to 1%, and to invest the difference in strengthening the civil protection system, improving international development cooperation and human security. Something about the law. The draft Homeland Security Act introduces a new system and establishes a new body, and it is interesting that new coordination is also proposed, if we exclude the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, the National Security Council has actually been expanded. Almost the same composition of the National Security Council and proposed coordination implies a possible question, so why can't they coordinate things now and why something new is needed? Furthermore, in the proposed co-ordination for the Homeland Security System other than the advisers of the President, 11 are members under the direct authority of the Government, while the Chief Staff shall be appointed on a proposal from the Minister of Defence and appointed by the Government by the President of the Republic and the President of the Office of the National Security, Director of the Security and Intelligence Agency, Director of the Military Intelligence Agency shall be appointed by the co-signature of the President of the Republic and the President of the Government. So, if we accept that the proposed coordination is a good solution, perhaps its composition lacks a representative of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament must make some decisions regarding the Armed Forces. Let us remind ourselves of article 3 of the proposed draft. The Homeland Security System includes coordinated action, development of capabilities and public security potential, defence of the security system, external affairs and the economy, and other bodies in order to recognise the assessment and reduction of security risks of importance to the national security of the Republic of Croatia. About health care. In view of the fact that Article 5 is not referred to as part of the Homeland Security System, the Ministry of Health would also need to place pragmatically in one of the subparagraphs that the Ministry of Health is part of the Homeland Security system for the reasons that in our wider and narrow geopolitical environment there are indicators of danger from nuclear, bioterrorist, epidemiological and other threats. And in the event of such an attack, specific knowledge, skills and techniques occur, which in nature have a medical profession of different profiles. For the end. The law itself is properly written and although it does not essentially bring anything special new except coordination of activities. This seeks to give an emphasis on comprehensiveness and has a professional background in which theory and real experience are reflected. It seems that the law more intends to strengthen the coordination of various institutions and to improve the public security system as something that is not only within the area of the military and police but much wider. It's a good move and it's in line with NATO's proposals. On the other hand, it does not reflect the announcement of a larger, deeper and longer-term strategy for the development of Croatian national security. This law certainly does not announce the emergence of a new Ministry of Homeland Security, which was most talked about for a while during the last government as a pandan of American experience, and that's good. We believe that such a ministry is not necessary, and that this law has created a key component and institutional form of cooperation of all forms of security institutions. The question is how it's going to work. It is known that many police, intelligence and military activities have not been communicated to each other, so the biggest challenge of the new idea of co-ordinating activities is precisely in the efficient sharing of data and consistent interaction. Due to its geographical and geopolitical position, Croatia has been more or less defined as a space of transit threats primarily organised crime, migration, kidnapping, trafficking of people, narcotics, but also an area of spilling possible crises from the Balkan peninsula, which can lead to lower or greater tensions at borders as well as facing wars in neighbouring countries. Some of these things are hypothetical, some are extremely real and liquid. But they are all related to the geographical definition of Croatia's position. And Croatia has managed relatively well to co-operate with institutions within and outside the state in countering such threats. Where future homeland security must be proven are the new asymmetric global forms of threats as a stunt in cyber crime, financial malfeasance, the influence of terrorist organisations and multiple polar games, the damage to critical infrastructure and many others, perhaps to our public, unknown forms of criminal activity. So, as we have already heard from the Prime Minister, the National Security Strategy and its development is a lasting process. I hope you will see this today as a proposal to improve this text, but we are also calling for a national consensus in the adoption of the National Security Strategy, and this is also a requirement that we work together in Croatia to improve and improve the cooperation of security systems, which is a prerequisite for greater security of citizens. And I hope these documents contribute to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41878	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a series of replicas. She's the first one to represent Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41879	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives Strenja Linić listed very important things. However, in all this and your speech and speech, i.e. Showing the whole law is very important, and there is still the potential of people from the Homeland War and the Croatian Army, as well as in systems that were firefighters, who are trying to implement themselves in this law. Otherwise this law won't make any sense, we just bring it in. So, but the fact that you've guessed and the fact is, it's sad that since 2002 we don't have the law, we only have that law now. And that puts Croatia at risk, development, energy. Where are the White Nights, INA Mol? What about, so we had such a compromised system. You mention food and water, yes food. So the silos, gone food silos as a supply of Croatian, so the missing Croatian fighter planes were sent to Ukraine, were returned to parts of... I mean, there was so much concern about the system, our security system that it was disappointing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I expect the Secretary of Defense, i.e. General Krstičević, that well, when he has a chance, explains this very effective, and your opinion is the system of reservations that we do not have right now. We simply today do not have an organised system not only in war circumstances, but in environmental disasters and any other disasters and threats to the sea very quickly and efficiently if we organize to use this potential that is still said I people have from the Homeland War which are very good organizers in much more difficult conditions were. And therefore, this potential must be used urgently to know who, what, when and where in certain crisis situations, and to clarify our public and for the safety of citizens and to include each individual mainly in various areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41880	Thank you. Reply to the distinguished representative Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41881	Thank you, Mr. Bull, for reminding me of this part. In preparation, I thought about looking back on that part, so here's a lot of text. It saves something that has been neglected for years and is something that we definitely need to develop in this country. The Standing Army of Croatia has a number of its members who are quite different organized but also, in the event of environmental disasters and any threats, it reserves something that must be regularly called, prepared and certainly 1,000 of our defenders would be very happy to respond and this would be one way of organising them because they have repeatedly expressed their demands and wishes and to organise it. We were aware of how many members of former members and defenders were spontaneously gathering and certain parts of Croatia were leaving, up from Rijeka, leaving teams and trying to collect some of the material goods and going up, and they expected someone to call them. It is, we do not need the spontaneous gathering of defenders to go unorganized, it is necessary to be organised as reserves, that this composition has certain calls, certain educations present and I think that this way our Croatian security system itself would be far better and organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41882	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41883	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mrs Strenja-Linić, in your presentation you mentioned several times the importance of the development strategy. And I agree with you, it's an extremely important strategy and you said that every government when it changes, that is, the new one that comes to change those strategies and that we lose continuity and that's one of the bigger problems. And that's where I agree with you. However, the national security strategy is a roof document, which needs to be identified, national priorities, national interests, threats and risks, endangering interests. So, the National Development Strategy is a sectoral document that should receive guidance for its development in the national security strategy for this reason and can no longer be represented in the national security strategy, but that it may have been more precise to define Croatia's development guidelines, you are right and I agree with you there. Another thing you mentioned about health care not being included in the home security system. I don't agree with this bill that says that only the central authorities are state administrations, so it lists 5.6 as a system of homeland security. The system of national security or homeland as it is called here is made up of all state bodies, so they are all part of the same system of promoting national interests, and each contributes as much as its jurisdiction allows either the necessary moment or the defined priorities. Therefore, limiting ourselves to resources and all that the Ministry of the Interior, Defence, Foreign Affairs, Intelligence is not enough and is wrong and shows a lack of understanding of the system. Well, of course, health care is part of the home security system, that is, national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41884	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41885	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Strenja-Linić, you said that we had strategies, there would be no wandering for 25 years. This should simply be warned, that it is not an accurate finding, because the strategy, the Croatian strategy, was presented on the first day of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, on 30 May 90th in 10 points of strategic goals that Croatia should achieve in these 10 points of the 90s, one 6 to 7 were fully realised, and some were not, as they were then already warned of the demographic problem and the dying of Croatia. In addition, given the system as the President of the Republic submitted each year to the Croatian Parliament, he submitted a report on the state of the nation and on the tasks for the following year, therefore it was far more structured and a relationship to development strategies. As far as this is concerned, Mr. Klisovic has already said, there is a misunderstanding about terminology, because everywhere from the EU, to America or Russia, the national security strategy is a fundamental document, even called a total strategy in France, and these others are implemented strategies. And the misunderstanding is likely that due to some legacy, safety is considered to be only a protection, not a promotion of national interests and national values, which has become standard today, given the changes in paradigms and threats, i.e. the response to modern threats in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41886	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Deputy Minister. Dear colleague Strenja-Linić, you mentioned the fire department as well as a few colleagues here, and I thank you for that. However, there is talk of fire and fire system. There is no fire system in Croatia, there is organised fire-fighting through fire-fighting communities and Croatia's fire-fighting community, which is the roof organisation of Croatian fire-fighting. So, according to the Fire Department Act, the entire fire department was joined in Croatia, and I also discussed during the course of the development of this strategy with those responsible for the construction, I expect that by the second reading of this law we will include the concept of the Croatian Fire Department as a roof organisation of Croatian Fire Department. Because when we talk about any incident, here's the other day, a fire in Makarska. Who ran that fire? Who ran the entire fire organization? County fire commander, Split Dalmatian fire departments, as well as at the state level. And I expect that the next reading of this law will include the Croatian Fire Department, as a roof organisation of Croatian fire departments, because there is no fire system, there is a Croatian Fire Department, where all units of volunteer and professional in Croatia are joined. They join the fire departments of cities and municipalities. They are members of the Croatian Fire Department in the county's fire-fighting community, and 20 fire-fighting communities are countys plus the City of Zagreb's fire-fighting community. And it's Croatian fire, not that there are a few colleagues here who I thank for mentioning the fire department as well as you, but there must be a clear terminology. And I think that the Croatian Fire Department should also be a member of this coordination system, not some people who are not from the system, headed by state administration or civil protection. They cannot represent Croatian fire.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41888	Thank you. Reply to the distinguished representative Strenje-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41889	Thank you, Mr. Sanader. It is always necessary for one whose area is narrow to explain to the public exactly. I agree with you that the representatives of the firefighters, meaning the representative of the Croatian Fire Department, should be in this system as well as the representative of the Croatian Institute of Public Health. So a roof one institution on behalf of those who represent the health care that is closest to dealing with what is the concept of public health and the removal of potential threats from bioterrorism, from environmental bombs that are potentially possible to mass disasters, accidents with hundreds and thousands of potentially dead, wounded and all that needs to be taken care of. So in that body co-ordinated if they're going to coordinate something, then there really should be someone who deals with this area, and there's a larger system underneath. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41890	Thank you very much. The next replica is Honored Representative Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41891	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. You mentioned here, I don't know if I misheard or mispronounced that it was necessary to reduce the current investment of defence budgets from 2% to below. But whether I heard wrong or not, the current investment for defence is 1.23%. You suggested that it should be reduced to 1%. We have already discussed that the percentage of 0.23 is very important for the military and that these funds for defence are not allocated to toys that our minister Krsticevic will acquire within his ministry but are already providing basic funds for meals, for the accommodation of our soldiers and the like. So I just wanted to make this comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41892	Thank you. Reply to the distinguished representative Strenje-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41893	Dude, you don't have to explain to me why that money is. I was a Croatian defender and spent 13 years in the Croatian Army. So it is clear to me what costs are needed for the Croatian Army and what standard today's soldiers is not good, it is improving but it is not good and their life in military and separate lives that they are forced to do because of their obligations where they have their jobs and travel home and housing is all a huge cost. I'm just saying that the question is whether Croatia can single out 2% at this point, is that our goal, is the goal to keep it at this level? And this money we have proposed to invest in the Croatian Army to invest in other security systems, which is primarily strengthening civil protection and strengthening other security systems, not only specifically in the Croatian Army. That's something to discuss. I absolutely believe that what is given only to the Croatian soldier is still insufficient and we absolutely need to strengthen and improve the standard of soldiers and this should be imperative, of course with the modernisation of the Croatian Army and all that is needed to comply. But that we will be able to achieve what America is asking of us, or what NATO is now asking for in America, is more investment is a question in this economic situation in which we are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41894	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41895	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Stranja-Linić. I've been following your exposure closely, and I'm commending it for your exposure because it's thorough. And maybe you've been involved in one of the working groups related to this strategy, if you haven't, then you've made a big contribution in the presentations. But you said you didn't recognize the media or maybe those cyber media where this strategy should have been a little bit more addressed. As far as I know in this strategy is a particular review, a paragraph on page 5, related to these media, which says that the dependence of society and individuals on the Internet and on information technology is a special sensitivity of the attack in cyberspace, regardless of the motives, increasingly endanger individuals, organisations and states. And the Deputy Prime Minister himself said in his statement that from the 11th month of last year until the arrival of this strategy proposal in the Croatian Parliament, several consultations took place that lasted 28 days, round tables involving the general assembly of defenders, and in particular he said that this was where the media participated. I suppose all those observations that came from the media that were respected in this strategy. This strategy can have thirty pages, it is as a document certainly good and acceptable that you said yourself, of course it could have been written much wider, but also the Deputy Prime Minister said that one methodology adopted by developing world countries has passed it on to this Law on the Homeland Security System, which should be re-developed to lower levels. So I think they gave special attention to this part of what you say may be poorly described about the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41896	Reply to the distinguished representative Strenje-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41897	I thank my colleague Babic. What I didn't say, which is that the MOST club will support this National Security Strategy. I am pleased that at one point yesterday it was said on the Committee on National Security that it should be a document that will last, but based on what the Prime Minister and General Krsticevic said, it is a document that is fluid. So we have to think that today something is no longer confused for ten years, but maybe they change different threats annually and all that we have to recognize. And as far as the media is concerned, this is my opinion because I believe that too much sensational emphasis on some topics is given to some who have no real significance in Croatia, especially some populist attitudes. And that's where it belongs, so I think it's a threat to national security and anti-vaccination movement that absolutely media at one point gives them wind in the back, and they say maybe we shouldn't vaccinate all the children and now we're in a situation where in Dalmatia, there's a drastic decline in the healing of children, which is why epidemics are possible. So it's a threat to national security because one populist team together with an anti-vaccination movement that in the world here in Croatia recognized that they may be their potential voices and said they should not necessarily vaccinate children. And then we get into a situation where parents don't know, because the media doesn't place it differently, they don't vaccinate their children, and they don't necessarily threaten not just their children, but all those kids who can't be vaccinated because they're risky. So there's a way that you really might need different media to place some things, and that's definitely a threat. And I especially hope that Professor Tudjman will talk more about it, cyber crime and information, in fact, information as something that is potentially very important for national security and cyber crime is something that definitely needs a certain part and in national security to be recognized and talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41898	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister with his associates. We discussed the content of this strategy quite in detail on several committees of Parliament so that I would not repeat here, but rather a replica I see going, I would not repeat what was said. However, it is important to point out that the National Security Strategy, in which we all seem to agree today, including the Prime Minister, must have an extra-party state character. In this context, we welcome the adoption of the Kukuriku coalition as the basis of this strategy and we think it is a good investment in the long-term and continuity of work on these issues. The strategy of national security is the country's strategic document and it is being derivated by sectoral strategies which then elaborate more in detail on certain areas and we have talked about this today. It is also the personal identity card of the state in which the government brings both citizens and the International Community which are the main national priorities and the basic threats, challenges and risks of national security and the principled contours of the response to them. Therefore, the main purpose and task of the strategy is to give guidance to state bodies to work on the strategy defined priorities and to citizens a sense of security. So, at the heart of all activities, there is a citizen, with all his freedoms and rights that the government should actively safeguard. We therefore welcome that this draft strategy has also assumed the concept of human, i.e. individual security that introduced the draft made during the government's corn coalition. This represents a significant step towards today's understanding of national security as national security in terms of prevention, armed aggression or systematic violence. The protection of national security involves the wider participation of different actors such as local communities and NGOs and the involvement of citizens in identifying and implementing solutions to our security. By pursuing these fundamental values, the authorities must ensure the stability of the state and the people, to protect citizens, their lives, health and property, and to ensure conditions for the welfare of citizens and for the improvement of society as a whole. Let me now quote one of the parameters of the strategy that I find particularly important in the context of our national security and national interest. The paragraph says: “The Homeland War protects universal values, the unity of all members of Croatian society, the prevailing ideological divisions and the established community of free and equal people. ” If the National Security Strategy had only this paragraph I would say, enough is enough, it is the best and greatest investment in our national security and our national interests. Because, as I said, the prime minister's division that has roots in World War II is the greatest threat to Croatian national interests and our national security. This paragraph is also the basis for me to understand the policies of the first Croatian President Dr. A foreigner to overcome these destructive divisions in Croatian national tissue, a policy in which everyone swears and thus is often forgotten and bypassed in daily life. The divisions were dominated and the consensus codified in the Homeland War and in the baseline foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and there was a state duty of the first Croatian president, which we also agreed on today with the prime minister. But the abuse and deepening of these divisions for homogenising voters in elections from irresponsible politicians is unfortunately still a common phenomenon. Abuse in daily politics is also one of those who are hungry for power and have nothing to offer these citizens. So it is no wonder that today in the public space of Croatia, there is still talk and dominates the stories and news of the stripping or putting on panels unspecified markets by proven anti-fascists or at home proven fascists. We don't need things like that anymore. We have to turn around in the future. The Homeland War was brought out by the defenders and the citizens of this country. And it's not just defenders who are organized into defense associations, it's all those who really took part in the defense of the country and they're sitting here on the right to the left and left to the right. They are members of all political parties, it's an investment in our future and it's an investment in overcoming all possible divisions. In principle, the SDP supports the proposed text of the strategy and has two mandates on which acceptance will depend and final support for the SDP. They are on the line of the Constitution, or its original basis. I hope there is a lot of unity in this assembly and among the citizens of Croatia about it. The proposed strategy accepted the position of the SDP government to protect and promote Croatian national identity as a national interest. In addition to the elements of this identity as defined by the draft government strategy of Zoran Milanovic in 2015, this draft, which was completed before us by the Armed Forces and the police, which are part of the national identity and Croatian history and traditions of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders. We agree with that, but we believe that the sentence should be complemented by the traditions of anti-fascism and Croatian partisans as bearers of the anti-fascist struggle which were the Croatian winning army and Croatian defenders in World War II. The foothold for this supplement is the very constitution of the Republic of Croatia. As without Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, there would be no present-day Republic of Croatia, and we all agree, so there would be no victory of Croatian anti-fascists in World War II. And as I said, many of us today would not sit in this House but in Italian, Hungarian or third. It is also necessary in the paragraph on page 23 to add, which is advocating the scientific based truth about the Homeland War, as well as events from Croatian history, including the history of relations with other peoples and states, and systematic opposition to attempts by the Croatian people and the Republic of Croatia, which we agree with, add to the obligation of systematic opposition to historical revisionism and denial of anti-fascism as a valuable foundation of the Republic of Croatia. Whether they come from domestic or foreign political forces. Every revisionism, domestic or foreign, which goes towards denying anti-fascism as the foundation of the Republic of Croatia, is harmful to Croatian national interests and is opposed to the Croatian Constitution. It can lead to instability both internally and regionally. In addition to these two amendments, I would like to highlight three more important issues in the strategy. We regret to conclude that in the draft strategy ahead of us, the only two strategic goals that have been put out in relation to the Kukuriku coalition draft are strengthening good governance and strengthening the rule of law and democratic values. In my opinion, we have a good governance crisis in Croatia. And it's not only reflected in state institutions, but also in the economy, in sports, look what's happening to us in sports, in culture. The art of governance isn't easy, but without it, we won't be able to push this country forward in the right direction. So, I'm not talking about legal management here, I'm talking about good governance, good management. Due to poor management, we are behind the good part of the EU countries. Investment in education, investing in the creation of experts and their ability to manage well is crucial for this country to take full sails forward, into a better future. The second strategic goal that has been expelled is to strengthen the rule of law and democratic values. I think it must be in the national interest and that we must all strengthen the rule of law and democratic value together. Because the state in which the prime minister is in prison or investigations against him, the former, of course, is conducting proceedings, proceedings in court against corruption or abuse of official duty, against various ministers, where mayors win elections with judicial proceedings, is certainly not the state in which democratic values are respected in such a way as to wish they were respected and therefore, there is much work to do for our society, to improve it, and that is why such a goal is necessary for me. Next, the supra-strategic state character of the strategy is an important compromise on the determination of the duration of the strategy for 4 years. That is to say, by harmonising with the regular parliamentary electoral cycle and by imposing the obligation of each Government to adopt a new or amended existing strategy at the beginning of its term of office. In the event of early elections, it would mean writing a strategy every year or two days. Our proposal was to establish the strategy, that its 10-year duration is mandatory after 5 years, and in any case, if the circumstances in which we live are changed, domestic or international, which would require a revision of the National Security Strategy. In this way, a sense of continuity and supremacy would be given, and this is how we leave it to any foreigner who comes to power to change it as he thinks it should. The draft strategy also sets out as a strategic goal of establishing and developing a home security system. However, by following the Act on the Homeland Security System, it does not establish any specific system but only establish coordination for implementing decisions of the National Security Council and implementation of the strategy. This left two important elements of the strategy, Kukuriku Vlada, which is the establishment of an early warning system and the establishment of a crisis management system at the operational level. Without these two systems, the strategy is not complete. Otherwise, as far as law is concerned, if law enforcement is to improve the coordination of the implementation of the National Security Strategy, and the implementation of decisions of the National Security Council which do not fall within the competence of the Security Intelligence Agency Coordination Council, then the law makes sense and we support it. In this case, the name of the law should be harmonised with its objective, as it is not about establishing a new security system but rather about trying to improve coordination for the implementation of the National Security Council decisions and the National Security Strategy. The need for better and more efficient coordination in this area also envisioned a draft strategy for Kukuriku Vlada, but we talked about upgrading the existing national security system, not building new ones in this context. If the law's intensities are to establish a new system of national security, then the law is completely missed. And he didn't fulfill the purpose. It has no additional value compared to the current situation, so the SDP cannot support it. Assumption of the construction of a new national security system and an analysis of the existing situation and the finding of a solution for current neural points and procedures in the position, such an analysis has not been made and the solutions of the law are both final and arbitrary. The consensus of the left and right's main political sides on building a new system of national security or homeland would be desirable and would ensure its sustainability and continuity. The proposed Act on the Homeland Security System does not establish a new system but only another coordination called the Co-ordination for the Homeland Security System. The government of Prime Minister Plenkovic has already established new co-ordination within the government, co-ordination for the Homeland Security System and Croatian defenders. The co-ordination is functional and is chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Damir Krsticevic. The law proposed coordinating the same name as government coordination only without defenders. The difference is that this law also includes the bodies of the security-intelligence system in its composition. At the head of both coordinations is the same man. The same man is head of the Security Intelligence Agency Coordination Council. In this context, the question of the concentration of too much power in the hands of one man is raised. The duplication of coordination at a high political level makes no sense. It only points to a poor, inefficient and dysfunctional co-ordination of co-operation between ministers within the government and the government's co-ordination for the Croatian defence system. The adoption of the proposed law will not improve this coordination. In addition, the Government for better co-ordination with SOA, VSOA, police and the military does not need new formalised coordination but better quality work by ministers and prime ministers, as well as more effective management of state affairs. Let's remind the prime minister is together with the president of the state head of SOA. The entire security intelligence system. That the law does not establish a new security system is visible in Article 2 which prescribes that it does not alter the jurisdiction of the body in the home security system, nor affects the provisions of other laws and sublegal acts. The legislator argues that at the moment it is not known who declares the situation of the crisis, who manages it, and the Government is the legislator. And it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia who declares the crisis and manages it. All state resources and international assistance are also available for this job. The law also did not clarify the relationship between the co-ordination of the home security system and the government's coordination for the Croatian defenders' home security system. Whether coordination is proposed which is intended to be established by the government's decision through government coordination. So co-ordination proposes coordination to propose co-ordination to the government. The duplication and unnecessary complexity, and the waste of state resources. The use of the Armed Forces in a period of peace is a constitutional category and cannot be granted only, and can only be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and not only in accordance with the Defence Act. It's an article of the 11th Law. Article 2 of the Law and Article 15 are in collegiate, as Article 15 is extended to the departures of the Office of the National Security Council. And a final remark. In light of the bill's proposal, it is said that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 18(1) of the Law, Article 18(1) of the Law provides that the funds for the implementation of this Law are to be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. The conflict of the law and its explanation is obvious. This example just testifies how sloppyly prepared the bill is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41900	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused 10 replicas, so let's take it in a row. The first is Honorable Representative Miro Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41901	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Defense on this document. It has been very serious and this document will be an excellent basis for strengthening Croatia's position in the international community and for achieving what is necessary in Croatia. and that is strengthening the economy and changing the demographic image of our country. As for Mr. Klisovic and the amendment. I'd like to say the next thing. When we talk about references to ZAVNOH and the rejection of NDH, let's not forget that Croatia was exposed to a '45 hybrid war. For years to come today, In the 1990s, because Croatia wanted to appear as a genocide and Croats as a genocide people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The late President Tudjman and many of his works bear witness to that. He was actively in favour, including in Belgrade against the aspirations of then-led leadership in Yugoslavia against it. And that's why we got these references in the Croatian Constitution, the source basis with it nowhere else in the world. Neither the Russian Constitution, nor the Serbian Constitution, nor the Slovenian Constitution has that reference, nor does the French Constitution. It is only in the Croatian Constitution because of this specific situation, because of these aspirations for Croatians to appear as a genocide people. It's very important to know. And since we have a Croatian Democratic Constitution, the Christmas Constitution has no need to repeat it anymore. We have a constitution, we have our original basis, we have our preamble and everything is said in it, it's all clear. We have Croatian values that are written and they are not compatible with regimes that are communist, totalitarian, fascist, Nazi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41902	The answer of the respected representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41903	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, the answer to Mr Kovac is contained in the original foundations of our Constitution where it is said that the foundation of Croatian sovereignty is the decisions of ZAVNOH versus NDH.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41904	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41905	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Klisovic, when you spoke codification in the original part of the Constitution, Mr. Kovac told you this, then you referred to us as witnesses of daily events related to the stripping of panels both to the testified antifascists and to the Ustashas. And in the end you added that actually the Homeland War is the bright point, actually about which we would create a modern state around which we should all agree and I absolutely agree. And it would be good if in Croatia we were actually talking about the Homeland War, all the good things that have happened to us, the imposed war of the Republic of Croatia, the bright victory of the defenders in that country war. And then you talked about the strategic objectives of this strategy, maybe, I won't say, shyly in one part of the way you mentioned survival insurance, identity protection and political... Croatian peoples, evicted Croatian peoples, i.e. in the BiH, I, of course, add that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we forgot the part where we kept talking about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, that in the creation of the Croatian state, the evicted country gave its great pain. And then we ourselves through this Croatian Parliament, in fact, made it impossible for these same people to participate in the vote, remember still from your government, when we talked about active registration, these people outside the Republic of Croatia, one unnecessary abuse. Another thing that is related to the Croats in the BIH, their equality as a constructive people, and you will agree that the issue of all issues for politicians in the Republic of Croatia is actually the survival of the Croatian people in the BIH.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41906	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41907	Dear colleague, I will take your debate as a contribution in fact to this consensus and the elimination of all, i.e. confirming the elimination of all these divisions and I agree with you, I did not mention Croats in the BIH in particular, but I also believe that it is a constitutional people, that they are part of our national being and that Croatia must do everything to protect them in their hearths, including to ensure their equality in the country in which they live, not only formally, but that they are really involved in making decisions on an equal basis concerning themselves. And there I see no difference and no dispute between you and me and anyone in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41908	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41909	I thank my colleague Klisović, therefore, from your debate today and your debate also yesterday on the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Amendment proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club on these documents I read, that your support in these documents will depend on the addition of these amendments to these documents. So the point is, what you were already talking about in your debate, I'm not going to repeat it now. However, as I recall, the last to be passed on to national security was passed during the mandate of the SDP Government in 2002 and were then not incorporated into the strategy of these amendments and these formulations that you have proposed today and concerning anti-fascism, partisans, etc., etc. What happened in the meantime? Has there been a refascision and the restitution of Croatia? What I categorically refuse, but what has happened has happened is a refascision structure, a restitution, driven by the action of part of the current opposition, I would say, parts of the current media. So then incidents of a type of fascist procession, I call it because it happened during the use, in Ban Jelačić Square, a marginal right party dressed in strange black uniforms, sets up as a basic problem of the Republic of Croatia and for a month gathers debates here in Croatia, even some embassies, are not adequately visible about it, because they were wearing we will say flags of the NPD, the National Democratic... /The speaker speaks German./... and the same NPD party in Germany is 10 years ago, 7 representatives in Bundestag and today there are representatives in 11 German states. So, as long as we get out of this House, from this Croatia we don't stop gifimating the Republic of Croatia, about these things I was talking about, no strategy and no PR drip will therefore affirm the additional reputation of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41910	Thank you. Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41911	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Ljubic, obviously in the 90's, early 90's, Homeland War and right after him on these issues that now mention more state wisdom, to quote our Prime Minister, that's his thesis, his sentence, today. And apparently the first Croatian president has made much different approaches to these issues than some irresponsible politicians today, and, of course, to the SDP president of the then late Mr Racan, it was obvious to agree and discuss. But in today’s times, we have been shown to have an increased presence of different conography and different greetings that relate to the Quislin and fascist formations in the territory of Croatia that worked in World War II. When the President of the Republic advertises himself to you at the Croatian Israel game in Osijek, she says she didn't hear, when you have home-ready plates in Jasenovac, when she wants to raise the monument of the plate to France, Yuri Francetic, then you know it raises one anxiety and encourages one sentiment, that things aren't still war axes buried as deep as they should be. I agree with you, in Parliament we should avoid such things, we should turn to the future and let's just repeat in this strategy what the Constitution tells us once again, that wisdom of the statesman that we received in the 1990s that this country is based on the Homeland War, on its values, I say many people sitting here in the Homeland War, from all parties, but based also on antifascism and the values of antifascism, one as the entire free Europe is based on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41912	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41913	Thank you very much. A colleague of Klisovic, you spoke of divisions in society for a large part of your presentation. That the people are blinded as in the immersion cave, however, the Croatian soldier can tell me when I was 18 years old, the Croatian soldier of the entire Homeland War and after 12 years where he fought against the great Serbian Chetnic Fascism aided by JNA with a symbol under the star five-pointer that you called for anti-fascism. It's not antifascism. The Croatian defender is an anti-fascist, a Croatian soldier member of the HOS, police, firefighters are all Croatian anti-fascists. That blinding of the people about World War II and so positioning on the left. It's not a left. It does not give you the right to love the poor woman more than I do, but to call for the division of the people that we have bypassed, who together in the Homeland War and the sons of Partisans and the sons of Ustasha, and their grandchildren have defended the Croatian homeland, and are returning to the divisions of World War II, it is unfortunate to listen here. To bloat the names of someone who is fascist, so those antifascists who insist on sticking fascism on someone's nose are using Nazi fascist methods, Goebbels. I'm like a Croatian anti-fascist defender, and I'm as proud of it as other people who have other worlds, other ideologies. The ideologies need us and the worldview binds no matter what they're different. There are instruments in society, there are various debates, dialogues, but to be called to World War II and so to do divisions on the left and right, blinding the people to the victims of Jasenovac, Beleiburg, so my people where we went? Let us bow to the victims, thank the Croatian defenders for the free Croatian state, the anti-fascists who brought us into this situation where we are all sitting now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41914	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41915	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bulj, I think I've made my thoughts and opinions of the Homeland War clear enough, not once in this assembly, but a handful of times. I'm glad you declared yourself an anti-fascist, a Croatian defender because that's what I am, and I would ask you to go from these anti-fascist values in all your discussions and you will certainly have my support in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41916	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Klisovic, I thought and I believed that we had resolved these prejudices and that this National Security Strategy was adopted unanimously on the Defence Committee, so it will also be in this Croatian Parliament. I believed that you were reasonable enough not to honor and place new divisions in the form of a Partisan movement in the National Security Strategy. It really fits for me. What you wrote in the amendment has nothing to do with national security or historical facts or constitutional origins. It doesn't say, it doesn't say anywhere, and I don't know how you could have used the tradition of antifascism and the Partisan movement that doesn't even say on the original basis. Why again do you want some divisions and when you have no reason for such a quality good document that has finally come before Croatian MPs to vote for it, make a division in some past times. The last of these historical facts that have been numbered on the original basis that the Croatian state has been created since the century 7th, writes clearly and unequivocally "at the historic turning point of the rejection of the communist system and the change of the international movement in Europe, the Croatian people at the first democratic elections in the 1990s freely reaffirmed their 1,000-year state suicide" still what it writes, which is the last in recent Croatian history. What are you going back to the Partisan movement that had its liberating character, but it had the same murders that remained behind it even today unenlightened.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41918	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41919	Dear counterpart Djakic, the amendments do not go to divide, but rather vice versa. You've quoted a part of the paragraph of the original basis, but you haven't read the first part of that same paragraph that is... Well, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So let's not talk selectively. If anyone in this assembly, and we've heard that the Prime Minister is with us and that this government has no problem with the values of anti-fascism, let them say it. What we want to put in a strategic document and close that story like we closed in the Constitution. But here we see occasionally things are getting out of hand. In order not to get out of control, let's go politically into this strategy, by accepting amendments to the values of anti-fascism. That's all we ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41920	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41921	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleague Klisovic. You've gone well, optimisticly through committees, we've seen one agreement, one support for the adoption of such an important document for the Republic of Croatia. We saw through the debate that it was in one positive direction, but we were embarrassed by yesterday's practical performance and tossing clips, planting essentially, bringing the state of obstruction into the state of adoption of this important document. We mentioned a non-partisan character, the Deputy Prime Minister himself, and the defence minister pointed out that he respected the guidelines of both your governments and HDZ governments and the sad and sad that we haven't had a document like this in 15 years. It is normal for such a document to be revised and that something can happen today that will require a revision of such a document tomorrow. But I especially want to look back at this last part of it, which is where you allude to the integration and opening of the period before the 1990s, so the point of links between the entire Croatian people and all the citizens of our country was the creation of a state and its defence in the Homeland War. Everything else leads us to divisions, divisions that we have long overcome and yet you obviously cannot without these divisions. Today's stories and persistent insistence on affirmation of failed and unfortunate periods from the Croatian past before the '90s and under the cover of anti-fascism on which nothing is disputed, have actually become the core of a political strategy for affirming and maintaining the failed communism that has come to power by force, thank God that it has ended. I can't help but wonder that we're going back to these topics and that you need this again as a topic you feed and which you practically politicize one of these topics and you're trying to ideologie it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41922	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41923	If it's not a dispute, we'll accept it, and I don't think there's gonna be a problem, anti-fascism. As for the duration of the strategies, I tried to explain, so if we tie the duration of the strategy to the election cycles, parliamentary election cycles, then we indirectly highlight one party character because every government that comes, regardless of which party it leads, will change the strategy according to its will, desire or political thinking. In order to ensure more continuity and more consensus and inclusiveness, however, it is much wiser for me to establish that the strategy lasts for 10 years as well as for a good part of the countries, and NATO brings its strategies to 10 years with an audit after 5. Of course, the revision is possible if it is necessary every day, if circumstances change to the extent that they begin to endanger national interests. So that was the point of our proposal to extend the duration of the strategy, not to challenge what Minister Krsticevic or the government suggested. So we're trying in a constructive way to help improve this text. And that's all. And that's our job, isn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41924	Thank you for the next replica of the distinguished representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41925	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Klisovic, this replica led me to your mention of money. I think finance is the key to implementing every strategy. Here, the strategy envisions an increase in funding from the target 2% of GDP for defence in the state budget, which is some goal it wants to achieve. That's why I want the success of the minister, pardon the Deputy Prime Minister to succeed in that intention. However, what is mentioned in the strategy and I will list two issues, one says, knowledge and technology are drivers and bearers of the global economy. The Croatian education system will be synchronised with the needs and expectations of the economy and will provide labour ready for economic competition. So it's quite clear to me that such an extensive document is difficult to bring, it's difficult to insert all the elements. On the other hand, I don't really agree with this part, because I don't think it's the economy that needs to be shaped by the education system, but the education system needs to shape an economy. And to do that, we need 2% of GDP in science education. When are we gonna get to that? We do, you mentioned Croatian police officers. You know how many Slavons there are today in Metkovic and all over Croatia that parents have to send for coffee. So these kids, these parents, if they could give these kids extra funds to even or provide them with housing, then these are concrete measures to increase the security of the state. But in any case, this strategy should be supported because it may be the basis for such things to start and change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41926	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41927	Thank you very much. Comrade Žagar, I agree that more should be invested in Croatian education and therefore, of course, full support should also be given to the curricula reform as originally imagined. When we talk about finances, we have two documents ahead of us, one is the National Security Strategy, the other is the Homeland Security Act. The strategy cannot, in itself, give the amount needed financially for its implementation, because it derivates sectoral strategies, and from them action plans and laws which then state how difficult a single measure is to be implemented and is in line with the National Security Strategy. When we talk about the Homeland Security Act, the Homeland Security System, then I pointed to a complete illogicality that the law says that we must secure the means to implement it and it is argued in reason that there will be no means to implement it. There's something simple about elemental logic that's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41928	The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's distinguished MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41929	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Klisovic, I noticed a collapsing. The first strategy of national security and after it we need law and we need to look at it as a question, you said it yourself which is not dependent on the political option because if we look at it wisely then the term of national security suggests and gives us that consciousness that it is outsmarting and outsmarting the political parties. Because it is necessary and must guarantee the safety and prosperity of all residents in the Republic of Croatia regardless of political definition, religious and other commitment in accordance with the Constitution. But then we come up with a collapsing that the insistence of the SDP party on these two articles, on two words in two articles to support such a beating document, the more the importance of anti-fascism is not at all minorized in this document is in collapsing with this first. Because I respect you as a discreet representative but insisting on those two words in these two articles does not seem either prudent or well-meaning. Because if a consensus is needed on important issues, national security is a very important issue. And you've pointed that out more than once in your television and radio shows. Then you personally advocate one and the SDP party advocates another. Because this supplement is more about making spite and some need for obstruction than it is about some kind of prudence and some seriousness that we would expect from a large party in accessing such an important document. For me, it's a step back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41930	The answer of the respected representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41931	Dear colleagues, I think you have completely misunderstood what I've been saying and what the SDP wants. So it's no step back, you're right nowhere in this text is discredited by antifascism but not even mentioned. And if anything should be mentioned, it's safety in the liquids of the Homeland War and the value of antifascism. Because these are two pillars of the Constitution upon which our statehood is based. And since we have a situation in our society, it is not bad in the strategic document, however, it is recommended to mention once again the anti-fascism fluids of the Homeland War because that is how division prevails if we succeed in the Constitution then we must be able to succeed in the National Security Strategy, especially since I haven't heard the man who actually opposes it here. Nor did anyone explain why he would object to such a thing. According to this, people, the public is watching us, let's not talk one way or the other, let's do what we're really saying in this case. The prime minister made it quite clear that with antifascism this government has no problem, that it supports it and that it is held by one of the foundations of our statehood. Let's put into the National Security Strategy, show that our actions are in step with words. Because if that's not the case, the people will soon recognize it. And by doing so, we will contribute to the uncertainty of this country, and we will harm our national state interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41932	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41933	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. Today we are discussing a strategy of national security, i.e. the Law on the Homeland Security System, and I don't see at all any reason in this strategy or law to put those specifics you said, meaning the tradition of antifascism and the Partisan movement. You've called on the Constitution. On the original basis, then you singled out one item from these source bases and put it here in the strategy, that is, the law. My question is why haven't you singled out any other specifics, so, for example, there talked about the kingdom of Croats that was established in the 7th century, or the decision of the National Council of the State of SHS, or you skipped simply this part where the rejection of the communist system is spoken of. So one piece is set aside and I don't think that's good. When we talk about anti-fascism, I'm sure we have one consensus here in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian people about anti-fascism. But I am not sure that we have a consensus on the condemnation of totalitarian regimes of others, here I mean the communist totalitarian regimes that we are obliged to condemn in accordance with the Council of Europe resolutions, which we are also signatories. So here we have a consensus with... things, these things are always trying to push themselves to as many places as possible, and in other things, the question of whether we have a consensus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's your opinion on these other things. So do we have a consensus on the condemnation of all totalitarian regimes, here I am now referring to communist regimes, because on your part I never hear the condemnation of these regimes and you are obliged to condemn them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41934	Here's a response from the esteemed representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41935	So if we have a consensus on anti-fascism, then these amendments are not a problem and people, please remember that when you raise your hand, when there's a vote in this assembly on these amendments. As for the communist regimes, if you had followed my political work more closely and more closely and publicly, then you would have seen that every non-democracy, any regime, including the communist regime, whether it was Yugoslav, Soviet or some third, that I had condemned. I don't have a problem with that either. What we're talking about here today is the values and the antifascism fluids. So that's what we're talking about, and that's what I suggest we raise our hand when we vote on these amendments. And there are no other insinuations. And if we're serious, if we think about what we're saying, if we're going to do what we're saying and think, then we're going to raise our hand for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41936	And finally the last replica of the distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41937	Dear counterpart Klisovic, in his debate when you discussed the amendment, you said that Croatian defenders, Homeland War, were installed and that it would be complete that antifascism and Croatian partisans should be installed, and that in article 14 behind the words that the traditions of anti-fascist struggle would be preserved. Now I ask you why not install a Croatian battle or install my copper city guard that defended Bakar from the Milky Way. So Croatian history didn't begin or end in '41. Not in '45. We're in 2017. This is a document for which the ministry and our minister and his associates have made a great effort, and I don't know who he's unacceptable to. We finally have one of these solid quality documents. And what you've managed to lose two hours here, to talk about anti-fascism and fascism. When are we going to finish this story of World War II, Ustasha and Partisan? If anyone in this country appreciated these liquids, then it's this country, this people. Well, recently, the 22nd we celebrated Antifascist Fight Day. I personally attended the Partisan camp in Tuhobiæ, giving a speech there to the people gathered there. What are we going to write everywhere? This is a document, a national strategy, a Croatian state as it is today, created in '91. They shot at us people who had a five-point head, so what do we do? History didn't start in '41. It's not '45. It's over. This is a document called what it's called. National strategy. Today we're in 2017, we're discussing what's going to happen in the future, and you're always putting us back in the past to some partisans, some Ustashas, Chetniks, and I don't know who else is. Croatia is the state of its citizens. And here, it says in the introduction, and you were saying, we're all talking about calling on the Constitution. It says here that the basis of this strategy rests on the Constitution, that's where it says it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Why insist more on such divisions?
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41938	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41939	So if we don't, I repeat the antifascism problem once again, let's accept the amendment. The second thing, if you think copper watch should be put into strategy, so suggest an amendment, explain to us and we will support it. So is counterpart Zekanovic, if he thinks the state of SHS should put it on them, it's up to them to propose it, so we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41940	Thank you very much. Now will be spoke by a proposing deputy prime minister and defence minister Damir Krsticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41941	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs. Assembly MPs, here I would like once again on behalf of the motionary, on behalf of the Croatian Government, thank you all for all these discussions, replicas. The SDP club also, Mr. Klisovic. But I would like to say one more time in front of all of you, in front of the Croatian public, some things about the development of the National Security Strategy. I have already said, so this document is important for strengthening the security system in Croatia. You can see we haven't had that document in 15 years. Two were attempts and this is now the third try. And from the beginning, we started open with that process. At first, the government was on its way. We had meetings, we included representatives of the SDP. You know, Mr. Klisovic, that you were already on our way out with the first proposal of the National Security Strategy on 7.3. You were at a meeting. These things you're talking about today, you didn't say anything. You were involved in the process. After that you were not only on the seventh, you were also when we had another draft of the National Security Strategy. He was 10.4. After that, in the Croatian Parliament, we had a 19.4. on the Committee on Foreign Affairs where you also had a chance to say about it. After that, from 28.4. to 28.5. in a full month, you could also tell about these things we're talking about today. We also came out after that with the fourth proposal of the National Security Strategy. The other day we also had a debate on the Defence Committee that you and you also gave unanimous support to the National Security Strategy. And today, today you condition your support with these things. I don't understand it, believe me, I don't understand because when I look at the National Security Strategy for me, what is she? Well, she's a strategic document that needs to be said and I think she's talking about threats, risks. It's about terrorism, it's about cyberterrorism, it's about fires, floods, earthquakes and all the dangers that are gonna happen to us. He's talking about the abilities we need, the new abilities we need. I wish you'd said we need one more fire truck. We need three more gear for the fire department. We need to make it stronger. Let's go together how we're gonna find ways to do this, what we need today. World War II, look at partisan, Ustasha or antifascism. Well, he's recognized in the original foundations of our constitution, and there's no need to cite him in this strategy. Antifascism, as you have heard from colleagues, is neither recognized in the 2002 strategy you worked nor in the drafts of the 10th and 12th years strategy. The Homeland War is the cornerstone of Croatia's modern state and the victory of Croatian defenders in the Homeland War. I think we have an agreement here. And that's why you don't have to, you take responsibility, you don't want to strengthen the security system, you don't want to develop new abilities, you don't want Croatia to have such a strategic document. Don't! If you feel this way you will help develop the security system freely, your choice. Feel free to do that. Politicize, politicize that part. I think the National Security Strategy, because no strategy in Europe has that. There is no European strategy, there is no strategy. And I don't see any reason why this strategy of ours would have that part. And that's why I ask you once again as a responsible man, a party responsible, a large party to question and focus on the essence. And the point is to strengthen the national security system, it's a man in the system, it's a cop, it's a fireman, it's a soldier. The point is in the Mountain Rescue Service, in the fire department. Let's make him stronger, we're finally dealing with him in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41942	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first to be respected representative of Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41943	Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Krsticevic, you are right, I took part in various meetings related to the strategy including the relevant committees of the Parliament. But you will allow this document to be discussed until the moment the Parliament adopts it in this assembly. Therefore, these amendments submitted by the SDP club were submitted by the SDP club. Insinuating that this implies that we do not want to strengthen national security in this country is a very low blow politically and is not appropriate and you know that it is not true. Such a threat to the SDP cannot pass and will not pass. So let's refrain from it. The SDP loves and works this country and its members as well as other people in this assembly, members of other parties. Do not give yourself the right to condemn the members of one party, that they are against the national security they care about, just because they want to from the executive grounds, the second foundation of our statehood is put in a national security strategy. To confirm once again the political will, key parties in this country, the centre parties of the right and left, SDP and HDZ, that there are no divisions, that we are on the same line. Let the people see. And this is the only debate you're arguing here, for no reason at all, saying what? That your problem is to put something like that in the strategy. You've heard that no one has a problem in this assembly, including the Prime Minister, with the values of anti-fascism, so let's put an end to that and confirm once again our political commitment to anti-fascism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41944	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41945	Minister, General Krstičevic, you're with the uprising, i.e. their right to be exposed to what their colleague Klisovic dedicated his most important part of the speech and these are the divisions. I always say that in Croatian society, and I said that earlier in the replica, we share on the left, on the right, on the basis of World War II, but really stories about fascism, antifascism, in ways and divisions from World War II do not bring anything. The Croatian people experienced what happened after the 9th century that only all of them, together in the same trench, and the son of Partizan, Ustasha, national minorities, all together, in all Croatian troops participated and now through the strategy, mention the division. Of course the divisions are blinded by the people and they homogenize voters, of course they will talk about Tito's square, now that Bandic needs most of the right, to the left, do not be afraid. He will restore Titus's square, so it is well known. In the evening, Tito's... At an antifascist gathering and World War II, and in the morning at Mass code in the church of martyrs, of course it is one of Plato's caves where the people are blinded and where simply when they start to divide from that cave immediately, to the community, we can move on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian defender is an anti-fascist who fought against the Chetnik JNA occupier. In Vukovar, he slaughtered both underground and under the cocardus. You know what I And Croatian defenders of all nationalities, citizens, in all troops in Croatian armies, police, Croatian defence forces, so why do we potentiate these people, we spit dead bones. We want to share the people on the victim. Homeland work is the foundation of the state, the Constitution is prescribed, antifascism is the Croatian defender defended in Croatia, Croatian defenders are anti-fascists against the great Serbian Chetnik occupier and JNA.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41946	Thank you. They will respond to the Honorable Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41947	Thank you very much, Mr. Collar and Parliamentary Representative Bulj. I once again want on behalf of the government's promoter, I think that's why, and under the Homeland Security System Act, I think it's very important, this synergy. It's a very important community from the Homeland War. I think we need what we need today. We see that the security situation is very complex, unpredictable, complex and the only system that can react to it and right through the home security system we want to connect all of these abilities that Croatia has, we want to get through one joint work, that we can deal with, is not easy to deal with. You see others, stronger countries than us. And that is why I am asking all together from this position of responsibility to focus on the essence, to focus on the security system, to strengthen it together, to strengthen it, that the Republic of Croatia, at any time, can, firmly, strongly, clearly, react to any threat and risk faced by Croatian society. I think we've got a lot of work to do here. We have a lot of work to do on standard operating procedures, about each scenario, we have a lot of work to do on joint exercises, about reinforcements, like you said about the reserve. You know, she made sure she was in the Homeland War. And we need her today, we don't have her, we need to re-establish her. These are these new abilities we need to have, we need new abilities to be able to deal systematically, organised, and that's the key to the story. It's a security system.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41948	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I will speak to the distinguished representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41949	... MPs, today we are discussing a draft national security strategy. [[Specially enabled.]] The National Security Strategy is a key document defining national interests. They explain tasks and policies how to achieve the goals that Croatia is seeking, but also how to prevent a number of threats and risks. The strategy, each national security strategy should allow the official state policy to be consistent, coordinated and more effective. What should be said at first at the beginning is that it is in the preparation of this strategy, that there has been a real measure between the two paradigms of national security that is the focus on state institutions, territory and sovereignty and that of the new paradigm which is threatened, or which threatens to come to national identity, social values and the whole civil sector. It actually means something else, that the right measure of mobilization has been found, both the state structures and the social structures from economy, science, culture to defense and civil society. In the beginning, it is necessary to show gratitude to all those who have worked to prepare this strategy, in a public debate that lasted long and what has been pointed out several times on the continuity of the last 2002 strategy, which, if I am not mistaken, had over a thousand pages, to those drafts from 2010 and 2012. In short, we can say and conclude on the basis of this presentation of all these discussions that this draft strategy is what Croatia can offer today and what it can articulate. As you know, national interests are grouped here in four areas. On the one hand, the first area is the security of the population and the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the other is the well-being and prosperity of Croatian citizens, the third area of national identity and international reputation and influence of Croatia, and the fourth Croats outside Croatia, especially Croats in BiH, but also emigrated Croatia. These national interests are defined in these areas through nine strategic objectives. And what is on the one hand to praise, and on the other hand very difficult to display, is on one relatively small scale the pages on page 29 all summed up. And in that sense, this strategy can be measured according to its display, according to its expression with other strategies and large countries from if you want the United States to Russia. What I think should be particularly highlighted on this occasion, which is what is said in the conclusion, or at the end of this strategy, on the one hand, that this strategy will be the basis of this strategy as a basis for developing sectoral strategies. Therefore, this is a key document for writing other strategies and, on the other hand, that it is the government's obligation to submit a report once a year on the work on this strategy. The two provisions themselves assume that each government's obligation to make efforts to coordinate work and work towards achieving Croatian national interests will be continued. What's kind of caused the differences in interpretation so far because these are the formulations, which is that every new government needs to adopt a new strategy, I think it should be interpreted differently. If we have an annual report on the work on this National Security Strategy, this annual report assumes one update of the existing situation, and therefore it is one long-term or medium-term document that can then take far longer than one mandate or one cycle of an individual government's electoral cycle. So it should probably go to the point that the strategy does not change until the radical change or circumstances that require it to write a new strategy. What I would like to do here if we didn't convince the content of these strategies which seems particularly important to me, I would highlight two dimensions, two tasks of this strategy that are important and in some way the answer to the part of the discussion here that we have heard. First, it defines the need for strategic communication and decision-making, so it is not true that the SDP is not involved in the management of this system or that it is the key to realising the strategies. Why am I stressing this strategic communication? In this age of growing information, increasing availability of information and data, we are reportedly living in an information society, we need a new decision-making model, we need horizontal decision-making and therefore horizontal communication, which assumes that the existing system of responsibility is defined in most laws, so that I simplify things now, ministers responsible for any decision that should simply be brought down to lower levels, that there is a need for horizontal integration between ministries and state institutions and thus vertical accountability is not an obstacle to time or simply by the capacity of brakes for faster and more dynamic decision-making. In this way, we also have a situation where people at lower levels have greater responsibilities but must be far more qualified to be able to take on these responsibilities and make those decisions. Therefore, this definition and this approach on strategic communication and decision-making assumes that in the coming periods we must redefine laws in order to allow responsibility to be distributed in another way rather than the way it has been defined so far. What's so important in my opinion is all of these points, to be clear, I'm just here to isolate what I think should change simply and the mentality of behavior and decision-making, it's detecting threats to what we call hybrid warfare today. And there are, in some ways, two groups of different threats that come on different grounds. On the one hand, what we can call terrorism or other is also a threat to this kind of economic threat or endanger critical national infrastructures that have their own repercussion simply in some way in physical destruction and obstructions etc.. Other types of threats and this hybrid war are threats to the national and cultural identity and value of Croatian society. There's what's simply in the theoretical plan, and especially by the law, we don't have the answers to that question. We need to be aware today that the information has become a weapon. But that is contrary to today's declared principle of freedom of speech. These fact that information about weapons and freedom of speech must be found in some balance, or we must find limitations in order to avoid abuse. Here it is about this war, there have been words here, and we need to support this provision that we need to strive to get to... GDP for military needs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we also need to be aware of the fact that security amounts will be far greater since this civil sector is involved because, as already said in explaining this strategy, we have 16 thousand soldiers today, but we have 30,000 security guards, we have 25 thousand police. Therefore, we will also need NATO and the European Union to introduce other criteria in order to show how many separates are for security, for national security, and that this is not only the military and military system but also other areas, civil areas and systems that we do not have today. Perhaps a few more words about the Homeland Security System Act. What needs to be welcomed in this law is the home security system to establish it with the aim of ensuring a rational, efficient, coordinated use of existing potentials, strengthening the function of management in emergency crisis situations, enabling the system and harmonised development of existing and new skills, ensuring the regular development of strategic documents of importance for national security, ensuring a uniform methodology of assessment and ranking of safety risks, ensuring harmonised implementation of the rules laying down measures and procedures for security protection, and enabling an appropriate contribution from the public and private sector and civil society to strengthen national security at all levels. What is, these are objectives, these are tasks that this law puts before the home security system, requiring this system to develop systematically. And what is important is that at this point the law does not foresee changing the competence of existing bodies in the home security system that these bodies must realise and implement under the laws on which they are established. But what is emphasized is that the coordination proposed has jurisdiction, now I'm going to use one term that may not be adequate here, subsidiarity, what these existing systems don't do, this coordination has to do. And by doing so, they will have the task of defining new activities, new centres, new ones, institutions may be too difficult to say, but let's say we don't have a centre to fight cyberterrorism or cyber crime. We have a series of these beginnings or beginnings from the police, and to some other institutions, it will probably need to be redefined or redefined in a new way. The clear point is that the key task is what was said but also misread, crisis management. However, it seems to me that here, in this law, there are still a few things to be explained and done in view of, and it is a good thing that this is the first reading so that it should be amended, these proposals. First, I think it is necessary to introduce that the National Security Council approves of plans and operational plans and tasks of the national security system. In this way we have very clear political responsibility, those who define the objectives and those who are then operationally preparing them. In other words, this coordination should develop annual work plans and send them to the National Security Council for approval. If so, and I think it must be because one who defines the objectives, from those who implement them, in which case it will be clear responsibility for who has failed or who has failed to do his job, then it would be rational to consider the composition of this coordination that is foreseen because it is not logical then that there will be ministers but they should be in the National Security Council, and here there should be leaders who operate and carry out different tasks and tasks of national security. It's a clear thing that there's a problem here that's with those ministers who can be in this coordination, because they're appointed by the government, and the National Security Council Act didn't predict them, but it's something that needs to be found in a half-time until a whole solution is proposed. So I think that this law would solve some of the dilemmas that have been put forward and in this debate, and it would seem to me, the whole system is much more effective, and since we are somehow again at the beginning of the development of this one system because we have already had this in the 1990s, so that we can regain one coordinated and joint effort by all relevant services and institutions in promoting and protecting national interests. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives Club also considers the draft law and this National Security Strategy to be quality documents and should accept them and the HDZ will accept them. A clear matter with, we believe, that these additions of the law will also be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41950	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41951	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman, you said in your statement that the strategy should be revised when the circumstances in which we live are guided to such a thing. And that's exactly what I stood for. But the wording in the strategy actually obliges the Government that, at the beginning of each term, de facto, it must pass a new law or amend, not a law, but a strategy, or amend the existing one. So I am right now in favour of the same flexibility as you, to leave to the assessment of any government currently leading the state, that, in accordance with the circumstances which may or may not be at risk of national interests, reacts spotily and to propose either a new strategy or a change in the existing one. So I just want to soften this commitment that the government has. And every responsible government of course will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41952	Thank you very much. The answer to the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41953	Thank you. I think that in some way we understand each other, the problem here is simply whether we're going to read the law literally or not because every next government and by this formulation can say we have no objection to the strategy so it goes on, but also something else can happen. To make such drastic changes in one government's mandate that they must change, it must change the strategy, because let's not forget, for example, the European Security Strategy in 2003 when it was adopted, the first sentence is that "Europe has never been safer, more democratic and freer than it is today." Behind that, we have both Russian intervention and war in Ukraine and this migration tsunami, therefore, the circumstances have changed dramatically, which has been very difficult to predict. So here, in my opinion, it should be flexible to read these legal provisions, as far as I'm concerned, that provision is sufficient to refer and update the strategy annually, and circumstances, when necessary, can change.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41954	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41955	Agent Tudjman, you said by this law that this law is essentially the law. operational matter and vertical and horizontal through all ministries and through all services of all, of each individual who will be involved, of every citizen, that is very important and that coordination and... It's known, so everything that needs to be known. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's true. How do you, as a man who has long dealt with national security, who knows this current security situation in the Republic of Croatia and, above all, about the eviction of young and empty spaces in our area? It's this economic element and the legal element, so our justice system that doesn't work is whether you... It's influencing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all about monetary policy, let's just say that Governor Vujčić, admitted that in 2012, 10 billion kunas without a currency cover were used by Agrokor. A direct blow to monetary policy. Are those messages to the citizens that we're all the same? We have, so every single person from where he emigrates must remain to feel security and stability. Well, the example is here in the general's village of Vrgorec's chaotic state, people are moving out because we don't have any. In my Sinj, so people don't feel safe anymore and don't feel like they have the same security in the whole area. So these measures, if they're just written for pro-forma, is the fact that if they don't move immediately from all ministries and if there's no coordination, sub-coordination, if this is just a dead letter on paper, then there's nothing. It will be as it has been with all the legal regulations and strategies that have been here. But the strategy is positive that after 15 years we finally have right here in the Parliament. And indeed, all those constructive suggestions that you've made in the second reading would be tripled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41956	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41957	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, you have asked a few questions which is impossible to answer in two minutes. But today there is no day for us not to talk about evicting from Croatia. However, what is missing from these estimates so that we can find the right answers and the real causes of this is the fact that half a million people have moved out of Hungary. A million people have moved out of Italy, several million people have moved out of Romania since the EU exists, the European market. In other words, the answer to these questions should be from the point of view of all these processes that are happening in the EU, in order to stop these processes and find the answer. On the other hand, as far as the existing security system is concerned, this paradigm has changed completely today. Today is terrorism, more than that domicile terrorism is not imported terrorism when we talk about these actions in Germany, France, Great Britain. These are the citizens of those countries who make up these terrorist acts. And this one paradigm that we can handle with the military just doesn't work anymore. So we have to put this whole system on another theoretical, then legal and organisational basis, and that's what it assumes is that, among other things, we have to build or build a few of these strategic centers that will think and propose solutions because it's not everything in theory, but also without theory, it can't go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41958	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB in the name of which the distinguished representative Goran Dodig will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41959	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Reflecting on these two proposals National Security Strategy and the Proposal for a Code on the Homeland Security System, and also listening to what is said here today allow me not to repeat myself, so that in that sense I approach this problem on the other hand not unnecessary. I think it's important that it's very important, but let's try to look at this problem from another aspect. We have a united debate on the National Security Strategy, a bill proposal on the Homeland Security System. The united debate itself inciting the conclusion that it is two very intertwined areas and that it is something that has very touching points and that it is not possible for one another to separate. The key words in both of these problems are security. So, security. The question arises why this is so important and what is happening today is that practically the whole world is talking about security. Never like so far, the United Nations has finally come up with a concept that an international organisation will take over one global security against wars. However, as Prof. Tudjman today has changed the paradigms of that security, and then we have quite expected and the need to develop national security strategies that are significantly different from how it used to be solved. If we look at security as a phenomenon throughout history, then we'll see that it has two fundamental parts. One is the safety of the individual, the safety of the person, the safety of the individual, and the other is the security of the community in which the individual lives. The man himself by his definition is an insecure being, very insecure and he feels through his entire life insecure, and the great need for security seeks precisely with others, in a community that understands him, in a community that is without violence, in a community that does not endanger him. And so the original groups, the original communities, form a family that also provides the individual with security and form countries that organise for their safety the simplest said armies to defend them. Nevertheless, the world is plentiful with wars, abounds with the uncertainty of the unseen. In the last ten, fifteen years, it has been seen that this concept of individual and state and community security has become completely unpredictable and most pessimistic, futurologists are surprised by the degree of uncertainty that today's world is at large, and then the smaller communities, the smaller states and the larger states, are threatened, and in the end it's all come down to the fact that all security comes down to the individual as a human being, as a universal value, to feel better. And of course, we've come to the present state. The threats that occur today are being overcome by, indeed, the most pessimistic futorologists, which is going to happen. As a result, such proposals and national security and homeland security strategies also arise. That's why the idea of bringing these documents and this law, for me, is an extremely useful attempt, useful material, and now that it's done, when it's done as much as possible, we see different grudges. I'm trying to go with the assumption that all these grudges are welcome. Well, when I read it, I have some petty grudges, and then I come to the conclusion of the next one, and I'm going to tell you what the grudge is, you know who's to blame. It's not this group that worked. Blood is me, except me, because I didn't follow what was going on. In fact, in that regret I see, I don't see one part of it, which is how every citizen, every citizen, makes responsible for that part of security with which he himself can contribute to total security. How psychologically motivates him to improve that security. I who think it's very important that every citizen, every citizen, has this responsibility to security and the state and environment in which he lives, and I think I know how to build it, it's not a process that can be built overnight. I didn't get involved in this. Do I have the right to judge someone else that he didn't write it and he didn't do it if I wasn't involved in it? And I could have participated, I had a call. I keep expecting someone else to do something for me in such an important thing, such as security, both individual and collective, at least it's not correct and it's not fair. That's why I fully support this material, but I think of it as, not as a holy letter, but as something that can be changed, in which period and how, we agree, given the circumstances, because if we were thinking about passing a law 20 years ago, which is impossible to change, we wouldn't have a state. Every law is variable, everything can be completed. But what I certainly don't think is good, it's not good to put any historical ideological specifics into this kind of material. Because that fact in itself, including the antifascism that we have talked about, which we have accepted in the Constitution, in itself, is causing divisions, and by looking psychologically from an individual's point of view, each division that divides people and their sense of security. So we'll think that those who think they're anti-fascists, that they will defend the security of this country by that definition. Or those who are not to defend another ideological position. Security is something that must be of interest to everyone and must not be introduced into that category into any ideological division or apostrophe of this ideological division. So, with the belief that people who speak for their best intentions, I want to tell them that it is in itself contradictory of the concept of security. We here fight for universal human values, for freedom. And how important safety is. I'll tell you that people are more likely to give up freedom than security. So the Swiss allowed them to be followed and stalked, to be... to feel safe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They voted in a referendum. So security is a supercategory. There should be no division in this House in that sense. The question is, I listened to Mrs. Strenja-Linić, which should be entered. Well, the entire state policy, everything that's going on in the country, is in the function of individual security, its psychological, physical, economic, social, we can't pass all the laws here. This is just the framework of principle that we can think about and the most specific, most often predicted threats that will happen to us, that I have an organised response to this, not improvising this feeling that we have an organised response to such a threat is of paramount importance, not just for this document for this state of affairs, it is of paramount importance to everything that is happening in the country. So do you think people won't run out of the country if they feel insecure, that people won't run out of the country if they feel economically insecure, that they won't run young people out of the country who don't have the prospect of making their own home there? So this is the matter that penetrates all spheres of life. And that's why our club will support this, and it's ready in the part where we can make a contribution to making an even better document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41960	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Vlaha Orepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41961	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Dodig. Encouraged by your word and by the explanation of the word security, I will say immediately to sign every word you have spoken. We can put security in the sphere of some balance or need for balance. And these amendments that were delivered by the SDP in them wanted me to admit it or not have politics and we can't let that happen. The only word that we all agree with here, and that our overall agreement is extremely important for these documents to be brought is antifascism. So I really see in these amendments some kind of imbalance, a tension that just needs to be avoided in order to constructively come to a common solution, all of us, to bring such an extremely important document. So we need to articulate to find the right relationship, the measure of social values that comes from this strategy of ours. And here we definitely have two facts at this point that I believe we can all share. The first is antifascism is unquestionable and on it is antifascism as the basis of our statehood is unquestionable, but only that word, without these supplements and partisans and revisionism etc. it's an attempt to enter those words into this document. And another fact we have some phenomena that some of the citizens, the importance of some of the citizens, interprets as an attempt at historical auditism. It surrounds us these days and it is extremely important to be aware of these facts. In this context, it might be wise to discuss or see where to put only this word antifascism. I see at this point at some point, although I think such documents I am convinced because this constitution contains no need to enter in such documents because they stem from the Constitution and all other documents, but here is one perhaps constructive idea to put out maybe this little barbecue that may cause fire and some kind of instability and uncertainty, here in this Article 14 if in front of "save the traditions of antifascism, Homeland War and Croatian defenders" and then loses the meaning of all these amendments. Here's a constructive proposal, maybe to think about it in this spirit if it's acceptable. Although I repeat, such documents should not contain... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41962	Thank you very much. ... The next is a small confusion, counterpart Pusic asked us to put her to the end is distinguished representative Zeljko Glasovic. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Next is Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next is Honorable Representative Davor Vlaovic. I'm sorry, Your Honor, Agent Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41963	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored representatives of the promoters, ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. So on behalf of the HNS Club, I'll just briefly look back on the National Strategy Proposal, given that the debate is united. So in Chapter 4, very clearly defined strategic objectives, instruments, mechanisms and their achievement, and that is the taste and key topics of this strategy. In fact, only a few things I would point out that we had as part of harmonising with a number of European acquiss in the extreme line of need and the need for the possibility of withdrawing certain funds to bring a number of strategies at Croatia level, and this strategy certainly represents and as the minister himself has said since 2002 we have not had any new strategy, a positive shift that can certainly need to be adopted and can certainly be the basis for further action in the final line and that law which is also here and on homeland security. What is stated here must certainly be aware of the times in which we are and the probabilities here are said terrorist attacks that are low in Croatia, but there is no need to remain oblivious and pretend that this cannot happen to us. A lot of countries, a lot of systems thought it would never happen to us, so they found themselves surprised. It also mentions the probability of what can happen even before and these are certain hybrid threats, so cyber terrorism that is increasingly taking hold. So I would immediately move on to the law itself, which I think, about the homeland security that you will all agree is certainly a positive step. It primarily goes in two directions and should go in two directions, which is detection, i.e. in terms of prevention. Because this newly formed body, coordination will actually be the most effective if we never hear of it, if it does its job in silence, prevents, detects, manages all risks, coordinates. And that's the meaning of that law. Whether things can be different or not, it will be seen in the implementation itself. But surely that what's also important to us except for the prevention itself is that when it comes, we've heard three of those crises that have hit us in the last few years of... Guns and refugees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then what do you do? Who's calling? Just one small illusory example that cannot be compared to such a topic at all, in all major events, with all major organizations, exactly, whether it is with high-risk matches, representations or any gatherings where larger people are expected to gather is clearly predetermined who and whose tasks, in which case, which all services participate, how they organise, who stands ready, who are phone numbers, who should be in charge of what. It is one thing that cannot be compared, but we need such a thing at the level of Croatia, at the level of great things, and that is exactly what this Homeland Security Act does to us and who manages the risks and what kind of crisis management is. What is important to me here, we have seen some remarks and in some discussions it is related to other bodies within the framework of Homeland Security that other legal entities may be involved. I see this article 7 above all as an open door of that, and today it was heard at the call debate in certain crisis situations, if not in that part of prevention and counselling, whether we are looking regionally or locally at certain headquarters and representatives of civil protection headquarters, we have heard here firefighters or voluntary fire departments, also the Red Cross, the Department of Public Health of the County or Greater, so in any particular situation, that certain institutions may be engaged to come, spotily quickly solve any threats that threaten us. And what is really most important here, which is mentioned in Article 13(4), that organisational and administrative issues of functioning of coordination for the home security system are regulated by the Rules of Procedure. So that Rules of Procedure is actually what the body should define and this very meaning of the law itself. It clearly requires protocols on how, what, in which case, who, in what way, everything is defined. I realize that maybe it can't be the subject of the law, and it shouldn't be, and that maybe that, if we had it here and the proposal to remove a number of and possible objections or doubts about how it's going to work, but it's actually the core of having everything in one place, to know who's called who exactly, where it comes from, who with what data, who, why and what it's responsible for. Of course, there is also the office of the president with his advisor and with his powers. So we have one coordinating group, regardless of what we've heard here about the accumulation, bureaucratic, etc. This part itself, this article, this Rules of Procedure, that protocol is the one that actually removes it all. So we will absolutely support the strategy and the law from the HNS club, and we believe that it is a step in the good direction of security and that a strategy of various forms of security is mentioned, but above all I think it is something that is necessary and that we must never fall asleep from both eyes, always keep one eye open because the threat never sleeps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41964	Thank you very much. Next is the club of HSS MPs, counterpart Davor Vlaovic, gone, losing his right to speak. Next is the club of Independent HSU, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. She's gone. She's losing her right to speak. I saw a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41965	Mr. Vice President, right about Mrs. Pusic, I wanted to draw your attention that Article 233 was injured. There is no possibility of replacing a representative for a place he has applied for a speech on the subject. The representative who applied for the speech and was not present in the hall when he was called on to lose the right to speak on the subject of the agenda for which he applied. The right to speak on the subject of the agenda for which he signed up loses and club representatives. So this is an extraordinary case that happened like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41966	In any case, the MP club has lost its right. Next, we're going to an individual debate. [[Intruding Djakic: Thank you very much.]] First came the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. After him, a respected representative, Josko Klisovic, appeared for an individual debate. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative God Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41967	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, along with his associates. So here we are today one of the most important documents actually for the Republic of Croatia, so the proposal for a national security strategy and I can say right away that I support this document because it is comprehensive, coherent, modern, how it actually resembles the modern challenges facing the Republic of Croatia and not only the Republic of Croatia but the whole world. What I see in this document in particular as a newspaper and what is highlighted in the strategy is that the strategy introduces a new paradigm of security based on an individual, on a person, so in my debate in several sequences I will talk about how we, as individuals, treat the elements of both personal and national national security. As far as the interest of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, they are actually defined in an appropriate way but of course I will focus in my debate on just a few aspects which are so to say, closer to me, on the other hand closer to my interest here and those whom I represent here in the Assembly and these are first row Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. As far as the security environment is concerned, it has actually been analysed and identified in one adequate way and certainly in addition to those of classical challenges, i.e. risks related to security for territorial integrity and freedom of state and nation, therefore, climate change, demographic movements, population migration, therefore, to the development of new technologies, globalisation, social networks, the Internet, etc., all these are new challenges that define our environments. So what I think, besides what's said here, so geopolitical competitions of major forces that actually threaten multilateralism in the world, what I also think are global risks both at global and national level, is that, I would say, countering multinational corporations... an industrial complex at both global and national level, so risks to safety. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is particularly here and what I want to point out as a positive achievement of this strategy is what the Southeast neighbourhood is about. So we know what it refers to, so countries that are not yet members of NATO or the EU, some are close, some are still far away. What I believe in this segment is that in the future, in the implementation of this strategy, the Republic of Croatia should take account of, that is, the strategic depth policy in relation to the Southeast neighbourhood, to use one concept forged by one of my good acquaintances, otherwise, former foreign minister and former prime minister of a powerful state, otherwise friendly and bih and Croatia. So what's this all about? It is a lot of aspects, besides BiH and Croats in BiH, which I will specifically talk about, it is actually about the influence of the Republic of Croatia in several spheres. In transport, in economic interaction, in investment potential. Therefore, it is all these elements that do not actually fall within that narrow term, so national security and threat to territorial integrity, but thus contribute to Croatia's position in the regional and wider world context. In spite of the fact that Croatia is a member of both NATO and the EU, therefore, Croatia's respect for all these international institutions and partnerships will be significantly conditioned by the level of influence that the Republic of Croatia is having in its Southeast neighbourhood, which is still not stable, and in any case Croatia needs to use that fact, so membership in the EU, NATO membership, to influence the processes in its Southeast neighbourhood in a way that it is both corporate and the reputation and strategic position of the Republic of Croatia, when I say so, I am thinking of BiH and Croatia in BiH in particular. What I also want to point out here as an important element of this strategy, that is, the issue of demographic renewal and revitalisation of Croatian society. The very notion of revitalization used under the titles of the strategy speaks of what a bad condition we are as a society and as a state and as a people in demographic terms. And now I'm going to go back, like, 26 years back. So, '91. and '92. year, when the aggression against the Republic of Croatia and BiH was carried out, we Croats, our countrymen came back from the diaspora, and even their descendants who never lived here, came back here to defend Croatia, defend BiH, defend their country. So, what happened today that the country is leaving people in peace? So regardless of the problems facing both Croatia and this entire region, the conditions today are incomparable to that 26 years ago when people came back here knowing they could die. So, something happened that I consider to be a loss of perspective, a loss of optimism, for which we are all to blame together. So, and who, unfortunately, we feed on our constant appearances. So, the 2015 statistics say that Croatia has left about 30,000 inhabitants and has emigrated about 12,000 which should be a negative balance, some minus 18 thousand. However, I think that the negative balance is at least 30,000, because those 12 thousand who have emigrated were unfortunately able to move mainly from BiH, and then the question is whether the greater harm for Croatia is when they leave the people who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and are resident here than when they leave BiH, so they leave behind which Croatia defended and defended in the Homeland War. What I also want to point out here, in particular, is therefore the national identity of the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia and I spoke of it in the replica of my colleague Klisovic. However, the preservation of the values of the Homeland War, the protection of Croatian defenders, persons with disabilities of the families of the dead and the missing participants of the Homeland War, their status in society are crucial by the assumption of the preservation of the dignity of the Homeland War. So, is the strategy any one can gain its success if here in the Parliament, or some in the Assembly, actually accuses the Republic of Croatia of aggression in BiH, which actually accuses Croatian defenders as war criminals and children of murderers, which we also had the opportunity to hear a few days ago here in the Croatian Parliament. So, no strategy, my dear colleagues, dear to the public, can, therefore, raise the reputation of the Republic of Croatia if we continue to behave that way. As for finally Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here I will say, of course, that I am very pleased that BiH, or Croats in BiH, as a state, has therefore won the right place in this strategy. Of course I could use something different and more precise, but at this point it's the least important. Intentions are important and therefore the implementation of this strategy with this objective is important. Of course the formulation, so in the period after '95. and especially after 2000, there have been gradual changes in BiH's electoral legislation leading to a violation of the constitutionality and sovereignty of the Croatian people. So in the period after '95. and especially after 2000, there have been gradual changes in BiH's electoral legislation leading to a violation of the constitutionality and sovereignty of the Croatian people. Yeah, there's been a change. However, they are not only amendments to electoral legislation. These are primarily imposed illegal, illegal amendments to the Constitution, changes in both the Washington and Dayton Peace Agreements, which are Croatia's signatories. And so this is also the area where Croatia needs both diplomatic and multilateral and bilateral capacity to act to point to these changes and to be asked to so say correcting these injustices. What is very important here at this time, for the Republic of Croatia to take advantage of all its instruments, and of course it has as a NATO member and as a member of the EU and as vice president of the Washington Dayton Peace Agreements, not to protect the consistency of equality in BiH, but to return to say at least those solutions that we had after Washington and Dayton, so after those agreements whose Croatian signature is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41968	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41969	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I welcome the fact that after 15 years of full age, this House is discussing the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister and means all the experts of the task force involved in its adoption. It is interesting that those who have had the opportunity to consider and bring such a strategy did not bring it. But now they're dealing with an ideological approach to that same strategy. It is obviously their greatest reach to argue Croatian citizens, Croatian people at ideological level. I have reported primarily for the debate, as I welcome the territorial approach to the establishment of facilities and Croatian military throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, I am pleased and happy that after ten years, a unit, namely the Puma Unit, is returning to Varazdin. This is important from an economic point of view, because Poland is a consumer and, of course, local entrepreneurs, craftsmen will benefit from it. Also, these soldiers will live in Varazdin and their salaries and, of course, their families will spend in Varazdin, and of course it is important to us from a security point of view. In fact, the Varazdin County area in the past few years has been affected by several floods. And besides local fire companies, there were no organised forces that would come in to help the civilian population and help save them. I believe that there was an opportunity and that there was a Croatian army unit on the ground, that there would be far less damage and that we could have been far ahead of all that. I therefore support the adoption of this strategy. I'll vote for it. And once again, I congratulate the whole group on making her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41970	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41971	Thank you, Vice-President, colleague Strick, distinguished ministers with co-workers and the Croatian Peasant Party club will, of course, support the adoption of the National Security Strategy and it is good to define national security interests by means of a national strategy and, of course, support this approach which Mr Strac also spoke of regional approach and even development of all parts of the Republic. Because only equal, evenly developed Croatia is and secure Croatia. Where we have a population, we have security. The key security detail is human. If you have a man in a certain space, then you can defend him and control him. This was also shown in the Homeland War where Slavons contributed, and this also proved to be a defense against floods. Because by chance, I was the Chief of Security and Rescue in Brod-Posavina County, where we were defending the 170 km coast of the Sava River and where there were 3 to 5000 people on a daily flood defense. Who are you going to call today to defend against the flood if you don't have people there, and you don't? Slavonian villages remain empty. They were mostly members of voluntary fire companies, associations, defense associations and ultimately Croatian armies, whom we thank for helping us and saving us. But he's a key man, a key job and an economy. So if we don't have this, then this national approach and the national interest of even development falls into the water. So here's what I'm asking you to do, because if we all want the fireman to be part of the system, then it's illogical that the flooded Gunja doesn't have a restored firehouse. He's the only one left unrenewed. That's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41972	The answer to the esteemed representative, Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41973	Here, my colleague, I see that we have agreed in our debates and replicas, of course, that in the focus of everything he is a man, and that of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Secretary of Defense, always stresses that for the Ministry of Defence, he is the most important man, an officer, an officer, a soldier. Of course, that there should be regional representation, that we should try at least all the ends of beautiful our development evenly although unfortunately this is not possible everywhere, but where the year is opportunity, we should try to meet these ends. You also mentioned defense organizations. I'm glad that right in the strategy and the bill of this law mentions the defense associations. When Gunja flooded, the first organizations to come to help, they were just defense organizations. Defence associations from the Varazdin County, organised on the same day, launched the same day to collect assistance for the unhappy and the next day towards Gunja. I therefore believe that both the defenders and all these defense associations should be encouraged and rounded up and kept close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41974	Thank you. The next individual debate is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, not here, losing her right to debate. Next is the distinguished representative Petar Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41975	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, well-respected rapporteurs, as regards the very proposal for a national security strategy and a proposal for a Code on the Homeland Security System, I think that after a comprehensive report that we have heard from the Prime Minister and the Proposer of the Defence Minister, it is not necessary to highlight the benefits and how normative our country's step is in defining the state of security risks management in the area of national security. The strategy, I see, is governed by the general consensus, we've waited too long and it needs to be delivered as soon as possible. Also, this law normably regulates, improves the whole system, because we are witnessing practically a number of traps to which undefined undefined relations between information exchanges, coordinated action of all components of the home security system, therefore this is for every praise. And I say this law, for sure, that in the future through its application, all the benefits will be seen, all the benefits, and perhaps some problems will be identified that will burden the functioning, but in any case, it is about opening up or opening up a space for the revision and necessary harmonisation of the normative areas of these national security systems. We live in digital times today, therefore, when almost all the data on the digital format and the representation of the immeasurable capital of every society, when it is stressed, is threatened through computer crime, which is why it is urgent that after the adoption and the strategy and this law, a whole series of laws, a whole series of regulations, which will regulate the home security system. Just by passing this law is a fundamental prerequisite for ensuring all this at one professional level. Therefore, this new strategy and legislation are a prerequisite for a more effective institutional action, a common system of national security of our country and for the protection of the general interest of the Croatian people and of our society, and hence the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. It is important to stress that these normative documents will strengthen the coordination system between all components of the Croatian society, that on the other hand, it will not reduce the achievement of the standard of professional and civil view, whenever it comes to the defence, police or intelligence system in terms of the protection and jurisdiction of constitutional rights and the freedom of all our citizens. I therefore welcome the adoption of such a regulation and I propose that a general consensus be reached on this matter to rise above personal, partial, party and any other interests, this is a document, these are documents that determine the future of our country and their adoption with a general consensus that will certainly facilitate tomorrow and their application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41976	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, all co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, so this national security strategy is certainly a document of crucial importance for the Republic of Croatia, which is based on the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme and related to the programme of the fourth-year programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, I would like to emphasise this programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is based on this national strategy, given that observations are being made that why it is limited to 4 years, so it is changing. It can be changed before, but when the programme is implemented for 4 years, a new programme comes, for a new period, and then new strategic objectives and plans are necessary and necessary to be included in the strategy, and perhaps before they threaten a different character and if there are real needs for the national strategy to be revised after a year, and can be completed after 6 months with certain things they did not include. In this strategy, it is clear that the 4 national interests that are numbered and which talk about the safety of the population and territorial integrity, the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, are fundamental preconditions for the stability of the state in all its functions. The well-being and prosperity of citizens are the most important indicators of the quality and success of the country's democratic political system and stability of society, national identity, international reputation and influence allow for participation in international processes and the creation of a favourable international environment. The fourth, equal position of sovereignty and survival of the Croatian people in BiH, the position of the Croatian national minority in other countries and Croats in emigration enjoy special care and protection of the Republic of Croatia. These are four national interests resulting from a further segment, which are strategic objectives, instruments and mechanisms for achieving them. They are divided into nine strategic objectives that clearly state what to do in the next period of this strategy, how to strengthen the defence and threat system, how to work to establish that all segments of the Croatian state, the state administration, are in any way ready for any threat. It is good that through this strategy civil society associations are also included, especially the association of Croatian defenders that we have seen in some discussions that create a problem for some why they are particularly stressed. So associations of Croatian defenders as we have heard from our colleagues are those who are always in office of the Croatian homeland and these members of the association are those who were willing to sacrifice themselves and give their lives for freedom of the Croatian state. So even today when in peacetime it is necessary, they are always ready to sacrifice themselves and help and defend the people and borders against any threats. What I would like to point out is that, in the further text of this strategy, it is also good to mention that by training the professional education of the Croatian military from voluntary service to specialist training there is also a way to make young people familiar with the basics of use and arms and command and what it takes at least military discipline to be able to at certain times, God forbid it to be those who will be used. To some, it creates obstacles, and I have had my second vision, probably in the future of the development of our society, providing opportunities, there will also be opportunities to talk about it. I would like to stress that by strengthening and developing the maintenance of strong and active defence, I am sure that the Croatian state shows what the segment is putting on. With the development of a strong defense, it's not just a cost. This investment is also a profit arising from the overall engagement of the Croatian military and missions as well as the tasks common to the alliance. Sometimes we think and feel that collective defense under Article 5 is everything and that we do not need to develop segments of our armed forces. I think that we are wrong and that it is necessary and necessary for every component of the Croatian military to develop, improve and equip with the most modern tools, weapons, to develop the domestic industry in fact. It has shown that it can deliver the best results on the world plan and our guns and our rifles and our uniform digital and our helmet and our boot, all of which are products worldwide that achieve the best successes and that is the part that must be developed strategically and it is good that we have such experts in the private sector that, in common with the needs of the Croatian military and Croatian police, create domestic products that are always available and can serve in the equipment of all those who will serve the Croatian military and Croatian police in the future. Equally, one segment in defense is disputable and we must develop regardless of the NATO umbrella that protects today. We must say that without the Croatian squadron, without Croatian pilots, without the protection of the Croatian sky, we do not have complete sovereignty. So believe me, it is necessary through this strategy to make further efforts in order to ensure considerable resources for the purchase of aircraft that will protect Croatian skies, which will be in the function of the Croatian homeland, which will be in the function of developing modern pilots with modern aircraft because when we have the protection of our sky by our squadron of aircraft by our pilots, then we are certainly free and sovereign state, then our own but not protected by Italy, the Czech Republic, Poland, or Hungary, then we do not pay foreign soldiers who are certainly not so prone to defend their sovereignty as Croatian soldiers. And I believe that on this plan, we must take significant steps, find the best solutions and opportunities to ensure that this missing segment of defense is, in fact, outdated regardless of the modernisation of the MiGs. I don't think we've won any good success, that they're still combat-free and that we should go to the purchase of a new fleet to keep the Croatian sky safe and that this is part of the strategy we want to have after 15 years and after two failed attempts. Congratulations and Vice-President of the Government as well as the whole team, this breadth that took place in experts who participated in the acquisition of these very valuable documents and strategies, and I believe that the law that goes into two readings will be this implementing document that through the coordination that will put all those segments that need to be put into service at certain times, which will build up and warn those state bodies that have not taken steps or ready to put on the level that is needed in order for the Republic of Croatia to at any time be willing to deter the threat or prevent the threat or to help in the not giving God the disasters that can happen. I therefore believe that the law clearly states that the four-year period of validity of the strategy is objectively reasonable in view of the plan and programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which lasts for 4 years and that any further supplementation of it is necessary and the need for explicit if circumstances put it as a need if it is to be threatened and otherwise or more modern than the strategy can now foresee. I therefore welcome the adoption of this strategy as well as the law in first reading. I think that all things are clear and that they should not be mixed ideologically with anything or challenged with some ideological things that do not actually come out of the Constitution and are not needed at these times to overshadow this good thing that has happened, which is the National Security Strategy and the Homeland Security Act which clearly speaks of everything that needs to be done in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41978	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41979	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Djakic, you mentioned that, under this document, national interest, citizens' well-being, the safety of the population and the strategic goal is a strong and developed economy. So I ask you what is the situation in Slavonia and Baranja, eastern Croatia, are we a safe and stable state if we have a damaged economy, devastated agricultural production and empty Slavonia and Baranja. And why is Slavonia so important? Well, because the refugee route is heading through eastern Croatia right now, across Slavonia. Because the biggest chain of drug trafficking goes through Slavonia and Baranja, human trafficking and a series of other criminal activities that are a potential danger to this end. And as we treat this economy, the best information is what we do after the flood in the area of Gunja, Drenovac, Racinovac, Soljana and that part, where most of the economic facilities are not restored. We've lost those jobs and young people from those parts are leaving. In Gunja herself, the furniture factory had 40 employees, and today it doesn't work. Second, the service of agricultural machinery does not work, farm farms are not restored, cattle get some money, but it is not all paid up either. We need to find a way to revive this area, if Maria Teresa knew that co-financing was necessary for Slavonia to be safe then this government and we need to make sure that Croatia is safe and Slavonia is safe only if we have a population there, if we have jobs and if today when the wheat harvest is in Slavonia and Baranja knows what the ransom price of wheat is, where it will be stored and when it will be paid. As long as we don't have it, we're not responsible for these people, according to our... and towards your country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41980	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Vlaovic, that the programme of Slavonia brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which included all segments responsible for the development of Slavonia, clearly states that this strategy, which is based on the government's four-year programme, must be addressed and the problems that have arisen. I would prefer that some things did not happen and that they went through another time, that they cared about Slavonia, that its development was progress, that Croatia was not divided into two regions, statistically, where Zagreb is in one, where we are from Podravina and Slavonia in that rich region, so we cannot use certain funds. These are the problems we need to solve under emergency. I would also like to see the failures that took place in security services that did not appeal or report on time on what is happening on the ground and miss and theft and fraud and imports that also damaged the Slavonian peasant. Likewise, the entry of capital without borders into our area and buying and that is a security problem that has not been discovered in due time. I would say it cannot happen that such capital enters the Republic of Croatia and that strategic companies are purchased or that it becomes almost a majority owner without being known. All of these are the things that must be defined through the National Security Strategy, which coordination through the law must be used and the security system is also responsible to both the Prime Minister and the President of the State, as well as the coordination that manages and requests information from him so that it can stop or prevent all the marifetteluks or occurrences of the harmful events that occur. If that were the case, they would not have happened and Slavonia would not have been displaced, abandoned, and poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41982	Thank you very much. Next in an individual debate by the distinguished representative Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41983	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice-President of the Croatian Government, distinguished associates. Here it is very important to me and I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Government and my associates for the development of this strategy and the bill's proposals not only on their own behalf but also on behalf of all residents of Eastern Slavonia, especially the Vukovar-Srijem County, who unfortunately have suffered many of these threats since the Homeland War in '91. until '95, but unfortunately, here is this huge migrant crisis, which hit the most precisely the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, and then, unfortunately, a few years ago, this catastrophic flood in the County of Posavina. All of these are the things that cause an extremely necessary emergency reaction to all of the institutions, all of the services, and the biggest problem is that there are no real ones in that system and there was no real coordination, fast, stalking as it should be to solve such problems as quickly as possible. Facing such crisis situations caused by natural or human action that cause a major threat to life, property, the environment and disrupting the functioning of government institutions should be the ability to coordinate the activities of a number of national institutions, ministries, institutions, agencies, institutions, all actually participating in this process. This strategy includes all of this, in particular further integration of systems and services dealing with prevention, management and mitigation of the consequences of various threats, challenges of national security into a modern system that will be well coordinated and targeted, that is what is most important. It is evident that the circle of threats to the Republic of Croatia has spread, when we talk about threats and challenges, we are witnessing that they are changing quickly, unpredictablely, and in particular is an example of terrorism that has become all-exist in Western European countries. In our particular not yet regulated migration, this crisis which is no longer the intensity it has been but unfortunately still, especially in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County continues, and every day our officers but also others are actually citizens and in particular here are hunting associations, meeting illegal migrants and trying to help police stop and return them. So, not only is the problem that can be seen daily, but the problem is that they have their mechanisms stalking them, they have checkpoints on which our Spačva forests are stopped, they take over the equipment and move on. So what is extremely important is that this system must be compatible with all NATO and EU systems, but it is important that this strategy recognises that the system must be coordinated, adaptable, that it must create as high-quality coordination and as quickly as possible reacting to all services while our services are quite well in certain segments developed by police, rescue services, security services, military, emergency services, firefighters. Maybe one of the problems I'd like to stress is civil protection which is well organized, described in fact, but in that part of local self-government, I'm not sure that it's very well organized, because there's not enough attention being paid to the education of those people who are at headquarters. As a longtime head of the city's administration, I was the commander of the civil protection headquarters, I appointed the captains... The whole headquarters, we never had an education, we never had or could, we invited members of civil protection but they didn't, they don't know what they were doing, what they were supposed to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When the flood came, I mobilized them, sent them to Gunya, I don't know where I sent them, or what they're going to do there specifically. So I think that there must be a little better education in that system than the leaders, so those leaders actually, commanders, to the members of civil protection that are involved in this if such a disaster occurs. So in that part if this is all co-ordinated, if this is all in some way, I think this strategy is extremely human, human, it actually takes care of the man and what it would like to do after this strategy that we have voted on, and this law that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia actually feels that he is also a participant of this system, this strategy. That he wants to help make national security as high as possible. And if we succeed, then this strategy has its full success, then it will contribute to what we wanted it to mean, that we have a secure, stable state in which our citizens will feel the security that everyone needs. And that's why I think this is a good, extremely good strategy, comprehensive. That there is a future, that we actually expect all Croatian citizens to join in this and actually make a contribution to Croatia being one of the most stable countries not only in Europe but in the whole world, and that combat people actually want to live in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41984	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit. Looks like we're gathering after lunch, full of energy. The first is Honorable Representative Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41985	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Karlić, I am pleased that you mentioned the role and importance of the functioning of civil protection. And it is mentioned in the strategy, however, I have reported that the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister hears that it is not enough to pass the law and write in it that funds should not be provided in the state budget because, in this case, through the Civil Protection Act and the Law on Protection and Rescue before that, a ball, a unit of local and regional self-government that simply has no money to do, to make a risk assessment, to create a plan of protection and rescue, to form water rescue units, from ruins, from chemical-biological hazards, to educate them and equipment. The state's support was missing in that part and units of local self-government were punished twice. And when they had to do it the second time they were taken from income, the original income incomes from income tax. And in future laws to be applied, which are important for national security, it must be taken into account that units of local and regional self-government must provide money to carry out tasks ahead of them. You know what civil protection people and firefighters used to come to me for flood defense? In his boots and his work suits. I didn't have to replace them when they were torn. The Fire Department’s fleet is 50, 60 years old, voluntary fire companies maintain it by enthusiasm, and we as a Parliament and as a Government must provide them with conditions for quality work, and then we will have a safer society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41986	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41987	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, in your debate, you mentioned the issue of civil protection and I will be standing here on my colleague Vlaovic. I'll say that civil protection actually, in special smaller local units, doesn't exist. Normally, the exception is firemen, primarily, voluntary fire companies that rest on the enthusiasm of members and the good part of the state has solved in one part of their funding, and then we can provide them with certain funds and a little bit of equipment. Of course, the main problem as well as anywhere is the money less local units know they don't have. Through tax reforms for the last ten years, local self-government has always lost, never won, and then if you can't secure the most basic tasks that local self-government has. So it's preschool education, it's a communal infrastructure, of course you'll hardly be able to provide adequate conditions for civil protection. It wasn't like that once. It used to be a lot more civil protection. I think the state here needs to come up with a really clear plan, but not just a plan to transfer certain powers to local units that we all who work in local units and who we are leaders know well, but also to provide financial resources so that we can implement those laws that the state has prescribed for us. In many areas, such examples are similar, but it is a matter of civil protection. Maybe it's just out of the radar to express myself like that, because it's only coming on, it just comes in focus when something happens. Then they start asking questions why you're not doing this, like, and unfortunately nobody's seriously dealing with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41988	The answer of the distinguished representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41989	Thank you. Here's what I'm seeing is that it's started like I am civil protection as a problem exactly because of that. It's not even as much a problem money as people in the civil protection system feel they're important, they don't feel they're important, they don't feel they're lurking and of course they don't even have equipment, they don't have education, they don't have some meetings, they don't really know that they're one system, one team that needs to do something when it comes to emergency. And that's why I think that's why we all agree that we all really need to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41990	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41991	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, you just mentioned the civil protection headquarters I had in front of the club. In fact, the colleague mentioned this as regards the municipalities, so first of all we know that in force are always the county headquarters of civil protection and absolutely and in the Homeland Security Act, Article 7 is that cooperation with other bodies is stated there and I support this principle of coordination in a way that we were all witnesses in any crisis situation and I personally as a member, that always the most organized, most meaningful part of each headquarters had an MORH or military. And it was seen, it was seen, it felt not only about voluntary fire companies, the Red Cross, whether potentially in the event of an infection, the flood of the Public Health Department. There are also numerous whether enterprises and units that have certain infrastructure facilities, water lines. So there's a lot of different participants. We need to get it all together. And I think that it is this House of Homeland Security that coordination if it fulfils that purpose that it will certainly be able to have in what I specifically emphasized, which is the Rules of Procedure, or the Protocol on how to act in the event of threats in micro regions, and of course both national and national. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41992	Thank you very much. The answer, and there isn't, there's no answer. Okay. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41993	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You've told your colleague that this is a human National Security Strategy, that every man needs to be implemented. But whether this remains after 15 years this National Security Strategy is just a dead letter on paper. If everything remains the same as before in all the crisis situations that Croatia has been in, I'm afraid there will be major shifts. Otherwise, we have a lot of strategies and laws that we don't absolutely respect, and a lot of time is spent here in the debate, so I expect it to be implemented. And in order for a man to turn himself on and be satisfied, it's impossible at this moment to expect people to. Well, we had food reserves, wheat, I mean from your neighborhoods, silos. She disappeared overnight to a ton. Sweep the barns to the grain. No one answered. Honey, 15 tons of gold was in the CNB. Where's the gold? 10 billion kuna HNB, i.e. The Financial Stability Monitoring Council, 10 billion kunas of uncovered bonds, has been beaten in Agrokor. I personally reported it to the DORH. No one's responsible for anything. White Nights, INA, Energy, Optical Now Network. Our security must guarantee that our children do not emigrate. Again, I was recently at the General's Myst, village of Vrgorec, near Vrgorec. Very little light, very few people. Who will guarantee in these areas if the young go to include every man when he is in Ireland a young man with whole families. We have to leave immediately. It is not enough to say we have met NATO standards, EU directives, but we must be, sovereignly, protecting both water and energy and food. And if we protect that, if we leave our man here, then the man will be satisfied and national security will certainly be at a higher level, not because of Facebook announcements that people are being detained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41994	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41995	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Here's national security for me depends, so it has to take care of the family, it has to take care of the home, it has to take care of business, it has to take care of the economy. And then when we have all this, and especially on the edges of the Republic of Croatia, to preserve these families, those citizens in that area, then we will have at least one piece of the security of our community. Of course, these are already the problems that you have listed, in fact, put much wider and that I could answer them in these two minutes, and as far as the grain itself and the cleaning are concerned, we clean up the old grain every year so that we can... It's a new one now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm kidding, of course, a little bit, but these are already things that may not be right now. But important I believe that this is a strategy that has a future, which certainly if we transfer it to our counties, to municipalities, to cities, to people, to institutions, institutions, to individuals, to man that he realizes that this is something valuable, important, that this includes him or wants him to be an important part of the part of the Croatian state, that he must also be the one who will participate in its protection. In every way, then, we can have the future one brighter we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41996	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Željko Raguža. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41997	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will talk about the part relating to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as part of the debate on national strategy and security. In fact, this strategy has made a significant step towards defining the structure of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, so that it is about Croats in BIH, Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries and Croatian emigrants, but I will support it, illustrated by the 2002 strategy. How then was thought and what delusions were done when it came to BIH. The 2002 strategy in the BiH-related section said more than 6 years since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the BIH remains under intensive management supervision of the international community. The Central State Administration does not operate at the level necessary for the successful management of the countries. The position of the Croatian people in the BIH, among other things, is sensitive also because of the very fact of its innumerableness. Regardless of all the forces that have conditioned the position of the Croatian people in the BIH, during this period, the relations between the international community and other numerous peoples in the BIH and all abuses of the Dayton Agreement, then the Croatian Assembly is considering at the level of the issue of the Greater Gentiles Policy on the BIH. There's no problem, the problem is that the central administration doesn't work. Today in 2017, in this national discussion we are talking about today, I repeat, significant steps have been made in realising the situation in the BIH, so the position of the Croatian people, based on such a relationship, is also listed in structure 4 of the key national interest. Equal position, sovereignty, and survival of the Croatian people in the BIH. Of course, after a certain period of time and after the term of office of this government, it will be possible to see and the effects, and that is the key thing that I want to point out, that the state bodies will implement all these thesis from the national security strategy within their respective competences. And for this very reason, a positive presentation of the national security strategy is necessary to ensure its acceptability in the public of the Republic of Croatia, among Croats in the BIH, Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries and Croatian emigration. Of course, all this together, when Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, three million and 800 thousand who live outside the Republic of Croatia today, were able to achieve this because significant steps have already been made since 2011 in the adoption of the strategy in relation to Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the adoption of legislation on relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, with the consensus of all political parties in the Croatian Parliament, but above all the work of the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Hundreds, realised projects to help Croats in BIH, Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries and a more appropriate attitude towards the Croatian population, have created assumptions that, as part of a national strategy today, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia can be spoken of in a more objective way. But what is important to emphasise and what is the job that is yet to come, as I mentioned, is the operation of the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia, in the realisation of the national security strategy. This mention of centralization at BIH level, should simply be forgotten. The Republic of Croatia needs to be turned in a persistent way, in a serious way, responsible way to help Croats in the BiH return lost equality to Serbs and Bosniaks. Unfortunately, the action of the international community in all these years has not been either on the democratisation of the BiH, nor on the implementation of those principles provided for in the Dayton Agreement, but on the contrary, on its audit that led Croats to an unequal position with Serbs and Bosniaks. The international community is primarily focused on preserving peace in the BiH and unfortunately on preserving balance and strength in the BiH. Today, there are two states in BIH. Real 2 countries, Republika Srpska and the BiH Federation, are therefore a realistic Serbian and Bosniak state in the BIH in a confederal, loose alliance. Today, the Croats, 20 thousand in Republika Srpska and 500 thousand in the Federation of BIH, have the same position, today in Banja Luka and Sarajevo are working two identity governments, which can make decisions without Croatian representatives acting in these governments, of course with a blockade capable of affecting key storms in the making of strategic developmental directions, the ambitions of parts of the BIH. All this will be important to bear in mind, above all, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia when faced with the realization of the thesis of the National Security Strategy. But it is the only way, the only way that circumstances can change in BiH. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia will also have to approach the position of Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries in a different way. Although the Republic of Croatia has not practiced the principle of reciprocity so far, we must note that some countries whose minorities exist in the Republic of Croatia and here exercise all rights, that there is no such relationship between their countries towards Croatian minorities. We will not cite precise facts today, but they should be kept in mind that the Croatian minority in such countries would simply be able to survive, function and act. I also have one more objective way to face the importance of Croatian emigrants. It is not only emotional to mention Croatian emigrants, it is simply necessary to look for ways of what is often pointed out, so that Croatian emigrants are involved in the development of Croatian society, but also through changes in the electoral law and through an increase in the number of Croatian emigrants to be given to Croatian emigrants as he should have in Croatian society. And finally, in the realization of all these objectives of the National Security Strategy, I believe that the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia will find a way to implement the mandate of this government within the four years of all objectives, all intensities of the National Security Strategy. And I thank the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Defence for the fact that Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, Croats of BiH, Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries, Croatian emigrants were given the right role and place in the National Security Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41998	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the replicas, given that the debate on this point has stalled, and it would be good if we were to end it with the next point of this report on the European Council meeting and the EU Council meeting in EU format 27, which was in Brussels not at 15.00 hours but at 1600 hours to complete this point and to round it up and then we can again and immediately announce that after the European Council's meeting, both meetings of the European Council will continue today with the points as announced, so prepare for a little longer stay. It's been a while with this point, but that's how it is. The first one came to the line by the esteemed representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u41999	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A colleague, the constitutional obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to take care of the Croats in BiH. Sadly, these effects were bad and the people were forgotten. It's visible in all segments. We can only look at the relationship with the six men who were in The Hague who were tried, the six generals of the Croatian Army, we can see that the state had not long ago treated the Croatian defenders who arrested them in the Federation in Orash and began to persecute them ruthlessly. They were Croatian defenders, Croatian senior officers, lower officers. Even the National Security Council couldn't meet at the same time. If an Israeli soldier had done so in a country, they would have seen the reactions for those people who created and defended the state. In BiH, Croats will find it difficult to survive unless the Croatian state is not only a diplomatic effort that has not been invested so far, is that if it had invested then they would not have an empty space that is strategically threatening and the Republic of Dalmatia is a very narrow space from the sea to the border with BiH, it is absolutely empty space. Croatia must encourage exclusively inside BiH all institutions, health services, a set of what should be held by schools, educational institutions to survive in this area. But it wasn't like that, it wasn't like that, but it's the tribune to change. The only thing that has changed in relation to the six is to remember for the first time after the first conviction, the generals who have been forgotten, who are hardly accused of not only personally but the entire Croatian people and the Republic, only for the first time left Minister Šprlje. Obviously... they were also waiting to resolve those who for the first time stood behind Croatian generals and went to them personally and stood in their protection, you know that you are on that committee. However, these people who fought for these people that the Croatian state does not bear the burden of aggressors, these people you simply got rid of. Too bad, but I hope this strategy will take care of the people of Croatia in BiH as a third entity in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42000	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, Željko Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42001	Coli Bulj, a good part of the allegations you have said stand, but what needs to be done in order to correct the allegations you have stated, needs one consensus in the Croatian Parliament when it comes to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and their problems. It is precisely the absence of consensus in this period in the last 15 years that cost the Croatian people in BiH dearly, but I believe that the period ahead of us will be an opportunity to correct all these gaps with the urgent consensus of Croatian political parties in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42002	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative, God Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42003	My colleague Raguž, so you are in your debate on one systematic and I would say a structured way of looking back on Croatia's strategic attitude towards the Croats... The Republic of Croatia and the Croats both towards Croatian minorities and diaspora, and I have nothing to add to that. I absolutely agree with you that Croatia does not use enough of all the instruments available to it, that compared to the countries in the neighbourhood where Croatian minorities live, it actually works to treat them at least as Croatia treats its minorities. So I don't know her in Serbia either, but the Croatian minority is not allowed to have its representatives from the minority list in the municipal or state body, in Macedonia it is unrecognized, in Italy it is recognised as a language group, in Slovenia it is unrecognizable and all minorities from these countries in Croatia enjoy all possible rights. What I want to do here in time for the rest of the time is look back and that is why the position of Croats in BiH was in Croatia so far actually taboo topic over a long period of time. Of course things have been changing for the last year and a half. Namely, Croatia and Croats won the Homeland War but unfortunately we Croats lost the battle, so in the field of truth about the Homeland War, both in the region and in the regional and international... So it is also negatively reflected in the situation of Croats in BiH, so far as it is trying to deny the Croats the right to BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll tell you on an example that I already said somewhere when there was a debate on HRT, that on one show it happened today, says the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina was created today. So after skipping further, after Croatians and Muslims said in the conflict, the Croatians and Muslims included the Republic of Croatia, which had serious international consequences for Croatia. The Federation is not working because the counties are difficult to achieve the budget. It's like the county's guilty so for... The Federations, not the violation of Dayton and Washington by an international factor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42004	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, Željko Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42005	With the new government of the Republic of Croatia and noting its strategic relationship with BiH when it said in the Croatian government's programme that politics in BiH is therefore something that needs to be dealt with more seriously and that BiH is one of the priorities, hence the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia. Also in the Croatian Radio Television programme, according to counterpart Ljubic, significant changes were observed in relation to monitoring the situation, processes and fates of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, Croats in BiH, Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries and Croatian emigrants. How important it is that this turn and more precise definition of the Croatian government's policy towards the Croats in BiH also tells the fact that HRT has planned to introduce an international radio and television channel for the next 5 years, and this is in a certain way consistent with the key issue of the National Security Strategy that the role of HRT is also important in promoting the intention of the National Security Strategy in the public of the Republic of Croatia and among Croats outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42006	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42007	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Raguž, I am pleased to hear that we are taking care of the Croats in BiH. I know that Croats in BiH have two levels, have to live in the Serbian Republic and the Federation of BiH, that their comfort is nowhere. That this is how they live in the Federation, that in the Serbian Republic of 220 thousand Croats, 5 thousand returned. 138 thousand came out from Brcko to Derventa Hrvat. I am now asking the full and Bosnian government, the HDZ government of BiH, how much is the struggle for Croats to return to Bosnia's Poswin? I don't really see it. It would be a priority and certainly a right to seek in the Bosniak Federation, which can be said to be theirs. How much we fought for our territory to get into our houses, no, we don't fight that, and that's not our problem. That's the biggest problem. If you don't have people, you can't fight them. And we don't have a people in Bosnia's Pavina 220 thousand evicted and no one is accusing them and no one is talking about it. And 35,000 dead people defending the Bosnian Posavian and our generals are now being shut down and persecuted by the Ores. Who stood clear in front of politics to defend them? No one, not even the Croatian state, is in Bosnia that leads politics. That's the problem, Mr. Ragug, that Bosnian politics doesn't decidently say, gentlemen, we want these people to return to their homes in their villages. No, it's quiet. So I wonder who's interested. I know Odjak was destroyed, but the villages were made Croatian and Croats now live there. That's what I want to be in the Serbian Republic, too. So please, those who run the politics downstairs, come on, go to Dodig and ask him why the Croatian houses are still today... Hundreds of villages have been destroyed and nothing is happening. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the biggest problem, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42008	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Željko Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42009	counterpart Misic, I said at the beginning of the debate that the 2002 strategy stressed that BiH's only problem was the failure of the central administration. Such a thesis was a key delusion, I believe it is the result of the delusion of ignorance but surely it is not necessary to rule out the functioning of Bosniak lobbyists in the political life of the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely these Bosniak lobbyists who have produced a series of delusions about BiH, so when you asked what return data, which is data about the persecution of the population, I will repeat here, and I have said this before, with a space under the control of the Bosniak army that has called itself to manipulate the BiH army, 170 thousand Croats have been expelled. With space controlled by Republika Srpska's military in BiH, 142 thousand Croats were expelled. It is also necessary to say in relation to the 1991 census, according to the 2013 census, it is missing, i.e. smaller in BiH, 216 thousand Croats. But it should also be said that there is less in BiH in 2013 compared to the 1991 census. 279 thousand Serbs and 114 thousand Bosniaks. If you say who was supposed to work, the Croats were supposed to work who were powerless at what I was talking about, the Croatian National Assembly of BiH is trying to turn this inability into our national power and I agree with you that it is necessary to work to try to get the Croats back to the extent possible. And to the premises, the rest of Republika Srpska's premises.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42010	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Vlaha Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42011	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In this ambience I will say political instability, political uncertainty, political unbelief and truly total alienation of power from the people, we should be aware of one fact and that the National Security Strategy is a document listed in the Constitution and which is a pirate of the Croatian Parliament. As such, it sets out the Croatian security policy in the coming years and the Croatian Parliament, the strategy gives guidance to all state bodies that have tasks in national security. Because of this fact, the strategy is a very important document. From the security situation in the world, we see how far the concept of security has spread. We are no longer just talking about the physical security of territories, but the concept of security has spread practically to all areas of social life. Questions such as energy, telecommunications, the fight against corruption, environment and environmental protection, industrial or agricultural production have become issues, national security issues. It is therefore good that this draft strategy recognises exactly that width and that we finally realize that national security is independable from the functioning rule of law. Indeed inseparable. For example, corruption is a corruption that slowly gnaws the foundations of the Croatian state and which can only be contained by the joint efforts of the state institutions of the entire society from individuals, media, social groups and associations to the education system. Or, for example, environmental protection has a direct impact on the safety of each individual, I guess that's also clear to us. So national security is everyone's responsibility because it's a common good, and national security is a secure area that we need to reach a common and honest agreement of stakeholders, also in the interest of everyone. The main measure of our national security and senses of security and prosperity of our citizens. As safe as our citizens are, as satisfied as they feel in their country, our country is strong and successful. Only successful countries are long-term safe and that's what we need to strive for. And only independent states, states or policies that have a direct link with the people and that stem from the authorities, which are indeed the sincerity of the secure state. At the beginning of the debate, we have to bring some things closer to the public, so at the beginning of the debate on Homeland Security, there have been serious opinions to create a system that will under one management cap be put in place, all the security of the defence institutions and resources. There was even talk of forming a special Ministry of Homeland Security. In addition, solutions were offered without any analysis of the situation being carried out or deficiencies were identified which should be corrected. It's just said that the system is not good without any concrete deficiencies. And as a solution, there was a complete centralization of all security instruments in the hands of one person. We were already very opposed to such thinking at the time, because we felt it was very dangerous for democracy to put all the instruments of state power in the management of one person and we also felt that such a solution violated the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which clearly prescribed the powers of the Government and the President of the Republic of Croatia. We also believe that there are developed and established all the necessary institutions in Croatia. They have their responsibilities and tasks and believe that in this part Croatia has resources, there is reason or obligation to respond to modern security challenges. What we need is better coordination of all our institutions without violating constitutional solutions. When we look at the draft Homeland Security Act, it is evident that our reasonings are respected. As we have advocated, it is extremely important to achieve the proper coherence of the activities of a number of state institutions in the common objective of greater national security. But it must not be given to one person or body all the governing powers in one place without the approval of the Assembly. It is therefore good that the bill gave up such ideas. Our Constitution makes clear how decisions are made at national level and what is the role of the Government, the Parliament and the President in crisis situations and it is necessary that the draft law follows constitutional provisions. In accordance with our opinions, Homeland security is a better way of coordinating and protecting national interests. All competent institutions continue to do their job, and each of them knows best what to do to make the system work better. In this regard, Article 2 of the proposed law is very important, and I will literally read it. So this law does not change the authority's jurisdiction in the home security system that stems from the laws that these bodies have established. And the second paragraph, the provision of this law does not affect the provisions of other laws and sublaws. This is key, it is important to understand in general the approach to the draft national security, the National Security Strategy and the law. The proposed coordination clearly does not provide for any additional bodies such as the Ministry of Homeland Security or the Office for Homeland Security, which is also good because there are no additional costs for taxpayers. And otherwise, we believe that the formation of new bodies will not achieve a better functioning of the system, but will lead to an even greater forest in the functioning of the institutions. This is why the establishment of a co-ordination for Homeland Security without permanent bodies and new employees is the most rational solution. All in all, it is clear that it has been realised that the home security system should only be an upgrade of the existing way of working and enables a better and more efficient state to act in ensuring the safety of its citizens. Also, what I expect from the Homeland Security System is that the Parliament is also regularly reporting on the arrangements reached at the Co-ordination on Homeland Security and the results of the operation of the Homeland Security System. I'd say that's final. The process of making and adopting these documents necessarily should indeed be the consequence of the cooperation of all of us regardless of political options and commitment. And what is most important at this point is that the process of drafting and adopting these documents should necessarily be the beginning of a common process, but literally shared responsibility for everything that involves national security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42012	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is a distinguished colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vukasanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42013	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Orepic, with one part of the exposure, concerning technical objections, I would not agree. But I agree with your recognition of a wide range of instability around the EU. And that belt as we see it goes from North Africa to Central Asia and covers the entire EU. And that's why it's important to emphasize. About the importance of the strategy is already quite said and I will not waste my time, but what you have recognised is that Croatia shares with all EU members the same problems and the same security challenges and risks. And that is why we are looking at this strategy and we must always look at it in the context of the environment and the European continent which is not so sure and has currently certain security threats that are not only in Ukraine, but also somewhere else. What is important to say is that the situation in the neighborhood is not as stable as it seems at first sight. And as they often say in Western countries "Balkan powder barrels" can always explode and in this context this document is extremely important. You may not know that an important meeting was held in Brussels on 18 May, where the defence ministers, including our minister Krsticevic, participated and adopted an important document. It is the new centralised military headquarters of the EU, which should be in charge of military planning and implementation. And despite the UK's opposition, that's now being achieved. That is why we must observe in the overall context, and then Minister Krsticevic held an important meeting with NATO Secretary-General Stoltenberg but also with Federica Mogherini, who is in charge of the EU's foreign and security policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42014	Thank you. Answer to the replica of counterpart Orepić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42015	Dear fellow Members, I agree with the need for a broad view but it is very important to stress at this point that Croatia is indeed a safe, human and friendly country. We have an existing system to upgrade, we have a lot of work to do in this area, and what we need to do first is look inside and correct everything that has affected ours I will say national poverty and dissent to the people. And first we have to solve it, it's your job, and these are the primary objectives of national security at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42016	Second replica of my colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42017	A colleague of Orepić, the National Security Strategy and the Homeland Security Act to implement the need for people, and you yourself have told people from the system, you yourself have said that we are in unstable times of economic, institutional and that is visible at every level. Do you, as former interior minister, see if this strategy and this way and the Homeland Security Act are possible and will prevent the new Agrokor from happening. It means the way in which Croatian and Croatian men were robbed, Croatian villages in the interest of the entire state. And basically these same people today are actually still in the system. We see that no one is having any controversy in the case of Agrokor, in the event of a possible still collapse in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. How many people are needed and can they do it for the people who have been here for the past few months we have seen absolutely nothing taken into account and sanctioning those who have allowed Agrokor to make of the state what he did, and in fact brought it before the economic collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42018	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42019	A respected colleague, indeed, in this moment neither politics nor the economy protects his people, on the contrary, she impoverished him and she cut him down. The first and basic place where we can see it and what I am living at this moment is exactly this Agrokor and the situation around Agrokor, or a complete political environment from which Agrokor came. This is something that we need to change, and I hope that this national security strategy will a little collect Croatian people, run to create a reflex and to those monsters that have brought us into this state.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42020	And the last replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42021	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Orepic, you said in your presentation that you would have an enforceable national security strategy that all state bodies, their institutions must coordinate with each other and that they must be present in the field. So for these very reasons, I ask you, do we have enough people on the ground today, specifically the Ministry of Interior, police officers stationed along the border of the Republic of Croatia, to respond to the threats surrounding us, to satisfy the Schengen regime that we are preparing for, to meet the needs and needs of our tourism that we do not have waiting at the borders. Do we have enough cops, customs and border inspections to spend everything we want? Do they have quality equipment? And are they motivated by their work, or do they have adequate salaries for their work? As far as I have information, that we haven't yet achieved that level enough, that people are satisfied, that the wages are still low on them, that we don't have enough people and that we need to safely invest a lot more in equipment, or in particular to have security, national security, we need to dislocate these border areas, more budget money, more people and with quality equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42022	Thank you, too. And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42023	I'm not going to speak as a politician, but really what I'm saying is, we have our police, our military, our security forces have enough power to resist the challenges that can come, but that can be much better, but the most tragic thing right now is what you finally said. Our officer, especially our soldier, is at the bottom of the social scale as to personal status, material status, and this society must change, this society must appreciate and respect people who deal with public security and I hope that I repeat it, this strategy, where we must really come by consensus to this document, the beginning of this process, where you and such people will gain their importance and be valued at their work in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42024	Thank you. We move on to individual debates. We have three more individuals and they're eating finals on behalf of the club and the final address of the promoter. Now, please, my dear colleague, Dear Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42025	I thank the president, I welcome Minister Krstičević with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so far I have personally worked on 5 strategic documents, 3 of the strategy-making processes I have led, and every time they adopted a strategy, the process lasted 6 months to a year, and the strategies were of local, regional and national importance, including a large number of stakeholders, but they did not last very long, although they were development strategies. In 2009, when I worked and collaborated with the Department of Economic and Financial Sciences of the Faculty of Law in Split, one part of this department was engaged in this particular area because our head of the department was doctored at IT security. What they referred me to at the time was that as regards information security of cybercrime, the main disadvantage for the outcome of all activities was the lack of a national security strategy at the time in 2009. The last one was, today we mentioned many times a strategy that was adopted in 2002. Thinking... I expected this strategy to be adopted every day, month, for next year, but here in March 2017, about 8 years later as Head of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, I was in the Italian Senate at a conference gathering representatives of the UN Office, for drugs and crime and UN terrorism prevention departments, and experts in the area of terrorism and cybercrime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our duty then was to evaluate the roles of national parliaments in creating security and bringing in documents to ensure the fight against terrorism. I then presented the strategic legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia, which defines the management of the prevention and control system of terrorism in Croatia. Unfortunately, our strategic framework, or strategy that I was obliged to specify and give some details about it, dates back to 2002. Today, we feel that the much less likely of a direct military threat is what we, unfortunately, 90's as the state and the people have passed. I personally feel much safer in the Republic of Croatia than in other countries where I travel, but at a time when there is an increased probability of symmetric threats as well as hybrid, economic and other threats, as the state must follow a step with time and see where our threats come from. When I met the Mediterranean countries that I already mentioned, I presented the data to our SOA. These data are also available in this strategy, which was attended by individual representatives of the BiH and Serbia. All I did was bring up the facts. The fact is that according to official data, more than 300 terrorist groups have returned to the countries of origin of Southeast Europe. In such a situation, in a situation where threats are denied by the official representatives of our neighbouring countries, it is clear how important this document is in relation to the environment in which we are. And what does it mean since 2002? As a society, we have become addicted to Internet, information technology, which is a special sensitivity. We faced three crises that we mentioned today, Gunja, Kornati, a refugee crisis, and we didn't have a strategic response. Today I must say and thank you for making me proud. I believe that you and I would like maybe this strategy that you bring if it wasn't the only one since 2002, but that maybe we already had 2,3.4 strategies, given that the circumstances required that we have some plans and in the last 15 years, the Republic of Croatia became a member of NATO and EU members. The Republic of Croatia is in a group of small states of NATO and the EU and there are no great opportunities from which it could draw unlimited material, financial and human resources to maintain the necessary level of security. Issuing in the budget is not yet satisfactory. We should all work here at the Parliament at the government level to ensure that the economic situation is such as to ensure sufficient resources for the defence, but in today's situation when defence funds are not at a satisfactory level this National Security Strategy is crucial to ensure better coordination and pooling of resources. We believed in you, and thank you for justifying it and surpassing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42026	Thank you. Now it's your honorary colleague Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42027	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister with Associates. Here I also join those who congratulate the Vice-President, the minister of rapid adoption of this strategy, but knowing how much has been prepared before and through the work of the Committee before taking office of the Minister, how much you have worked to prepare all of this through committees, then it was one logical sequence, but it is one of the quality preparations for taking office and I most sincerely congratulate you therefore and this resulted in such a good strategy. I'm sure I'll thank you for this broad debate that's been held. I speak more here as a fireman, I don't understand myself much in defense and I'm not professional in this area, but my 40-year experience in the fire department gives me the right to say a few words about this problem and about this Homeland Security Strategy. You have well stated that the three things of Gunja and Kornati and Migrants, in these two things I am well aware of, and this is the biggest tragedy of Croatian fire on Kornati has resulted in the fact that Croatian fire department has made many changes although the fire organisation in Croatia is 150 years old and one tradition which is 150 years of age is one wealth which Croatia has a higher and higher number of other countries that do not have it. So it is our obligation that through this strategy and through this strategy you have given good guidelines for development that are important now for these other strategies, our sectoral strategy in which you need to give us support, that through these strategies here we are specifically talking about a fire protection strategy which must also be made as well and certainly need your transport here and as Vice-President of the Government to help us because it is important for Croatian firepower that one quality equipment is important. Firemen are trained and interveningly prepared, but surely they will need to make a strategy for firemen's equipment, as she did for example. Poland. With one quality strategy, Poland has defined how many fire departments, how many fire trucks one country needs. And based on that, they got big EU funds. We are just short of such a strategy that will then define exactly what Croatia needs because unfortunately fire trucks in the poorest parts of Croatia are over 30 years old. Those better units of local self-government have well equipped fire, but the poor ones, which many colleagues here today have said have very poorly equipped fire. And to help them, it must be quality from this policy of guidance that you put here, but the sectoral strategy must clearly define it in order to attract EU funds, and so that the state can also equip. It is also very important in intervention preparedness that we will have to predict that firefighters like everywhere in the world, such as police and military over 55 cannot be in state intervention units. We have 80 firefighters who are a state intervention unit where people are already 45, 50 years old. These people cannot be an intervention unit and for these people we must provide a quality solution to their status or strengthen other firepower. Here in this strategy I would pray here and we have discussed it long through this debate that in this chapter A, the safety of the population territorial integrity, the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia would introduce a few words in the sense that in this second part of the sentence, according to this review as you said it would continue to develop, to put both civil protection and the Croatian Fire Department and Croatian Red Cross and the HGSS as well as other intervention services that work and which are interveningly capable. You now in Croatia have a colleague here asking the former minister if we have the readiness in Croatia. We in Croatia have 55,000 firefighters who are ready to intervene on the button of this moment in any part of Croatia, normally everyone in their territory and know this here present mayors, the chiefs of firepower and who are their first intervention, normal police and emergency officers are at the local level the first force to intervene at the mayor's invitation, which is important and what has been shown in all the catastrophic conditions, floods and fires that took place in the area of the Republic of Croatia. But the Croatian Fire Department is the Croatian Fire Department. We celebrated our existence last year for 140 years. So it's a tradition that many countries, especially these eastern blocs that have all centralized efforts now to create as new. This is why I pray and appeal and through the law that you have proposed here, but well I hope until the second reading that we will agree in this conversation that in this coordination, not in that main central but this expert coordination means when an event occurs, normally if the epidemic is that we have to be the most professional people in health, but if it's a matter of fire, floods where the firefighters intervened, then it would be logical that in this coordinating body in these specific situations there is also the commander of the firemen. Here I thank the Ministers for being on this big fire the other day, but you saw there these are the commanders of the county, city, municipal and public units who run the whole situation. It must be important and important for us to have the importance of Croatian aviation, the Croatian canadians saw it in helping Israel when Croatia showed its strength, which is the tradition that has resulted in us now having good air power, good and quality air forces, canaders of R-tractors. But in those situations, meaning when there's such a big fire on the ground then it would be logical to assume in that coordinating body that a fire commander or I don't know if he's a health care professional, I don't even know how to extend this law. But here through, until the second reading we will give it in one written form but hopefully more conversations that we can change that and that would be purely operational to fill out everything that might be a problem about possible interventions. Thank you very much, and I expect you to accept that.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42028	Thank you. Now we're going to the last individual debate. Dear colleague Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42029	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I'll just share, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, only five thoughts about the law, the bill and the strategy. So one more time I'm going to say that we really need to make Mr. Vice President, the Minister and all those who worked with him to make congratulations, really this is a very quality piece of work and certainly a big step towards what was presented 15 years ago in that 2002 strategy. The second thought refers to homeland security, this concept of homeland security. Here I must commend the same Mr Krstičević because he is already in opposition, it was mentioned by Mr Ante Sanader, we are already in opposition, we were already in opposition working on this concept and Mr Krstičević was the chairman of our committee on the website on national security and defence. And it turns out that parties if, the people involved in the party can produce quality things. So what we have here today is not only continuity in relation to the previous governments and authorities but it is also the fruit of our party's work while we were in opposition and I am extremely proud of it, it was for my concept and, if I may say so, the most qualitative committee of our party when we were an opposition. Third, and speaking of this concept of homeland security, in that law, I must say that I have studied the law, that I support, that there is better coordination. I saw that it was planned to meet with once a month the Deputy Prime Minister who runs coordination with the others in coordination but I would also like to say that the other day and on one body here in the Assembly to introduce some informal mechanisms that do not have to be prescribed, specifically means that once a week people who deal with security within that coordination are meeting. This is what some other countries have developed. On Tuesdays, one week in Germany, so-called The Security Committee chaired by the State Secretary and the other State Secretarys from the Internal Affairs, Defence, Foreign Affairs, Justice and Service are coming in because they have their round once a week, their own circle and discuss the most important things for their safety. I think it is necessary that when we already have such a structure in Croatia that the Government is leading an external internal policy, that we have this coordination at government level once a week, but also in other segments. And speaking of this security aspect, I think it is necessary that we make these informal cooperation mechanisms much more effective. The third mission refers to the state of consciousness. This document shows that the state of consciousness in Croatia has changed. We have now entered the EU, NATO alliance, once we have achieved the fundamental goals, freedom, democracy, independence, we now have a healthy croatocular view of the world. We're downtown, we're thinking about ourselves. And this is the document, these documents show that it is. And this proves and shows that Croatia is emancipated on the plan of security policy, foreign policy and that Croatia is aware of it and that as such it will act positively for itself, for its environment but also for the security and peace in the world we aim to do so. The fourth thought refers to something that is very important and it is also written in the strategy, which is that we have national interests. And we made them clear in that document and appointed them. I'll repeat what national interests are. First point, population security. Second point of well-being and well-being. Third point of preservation of national identity, international reputation and influence. The fourth point, an equal position, sovereignty and survival of Croats in BiH. Protection of Croatian rights as a minority outside Croatia and Croats elsewhere in the world. This implies, however, it is very important to write this down, to know exactly what are the most fundamental Croatian national interests. And speaking of BiH, this has already been discussed during the debate, it is very important to be aware that now that we have the opportunity to act emancipated towards BiH, not only because of the constitutional obligation that we must do so in practice and do so. I am also encouraged by the latest statements of the Prime Minister on the bodies in Brussels and encouraged by the instructions given to our ministers to act in this way because Croatia's stability depends heavily on the situation in neighbouring BiH. The fifth point, the final point, the final thought, this document of course can't be perfect, it can always be changed, there's a point, there's a point, there's a comma, there's a two point that you want to change. It's normal in the world, and we know that personally when we hand over some graduate work after that, it bites your conscience, you got it wrong, you should have used another word, that's how it is. However, this document, these documents are an incentive for us in Croatia to transform our country into an advanced society, a society that will allow our residents to be creative, that young people in Croatia can be creative, that they can live here, that all of us in Croatia can live from our work, that we can turn Croatia into a modern economy in which Croats from the world will return, in which it will be possible for other people from the world to work, explore as scientists and other jobs, to be an advanced society, and not a country from which people will go to other countries. For all this I am happy to have and now this strategy and this bill, once again all congratulations to Mr. Vice President and colleagues who have helped produce this document and I look forward to the very near adoption of this strategy of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42030	I thank my colleague Kovac. And now we're going to discuss the club of representatives of the independent lists, colleague Miro Bulj, it's a final debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42031	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Vice President, Ministers of Defense with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. After 15 years of 2002, Croatia had no national security document, it had no implementing laws that would or the fact that it had any, but not all potentials were harmonised, all resources in the Republic, both human and natural in the protection of each individual, natural resource, and therefore I think that in this reading, the minister and his assistants had a lot of constructive proposals that could be implemented in this document and which, as a document out of the way, will not be called as fellow Kovac to the power of the party. This is a document that must be brought into the interest of all citizens of HDZ or SDP or MOST, all of us, every man, what now lives in the sub-mountal area, alone, forgotten, without the possibility of health services, without the possibility of cell phones, signals, without the possibility of emergency assistance to that grandmother, we here must think of every man and every person, every single person, all of what we have potentials, resources, from firefighters mainly Croatian soldiers, primarily defenders. The people who created this Republic of Croatia and on these foundations we can build, and on their potential and these knowledge and these skills that were acquired in the Homeland War, we can build one stable base of people, the base of all the necessary procedures that should be put in place as standard. The fact that this document is welcome, but we need to know that it would be good for this document to hold firm the protection of our natural resources, that is what unfortunately and the wars will be fought for, that is energy, water, food, telecommunications, food production, agricultural land, that is the key to the sustainable development of a country and that is what we need to base ourselves on and protect ourselves and rise above party stories. I hope in the next reading, I'm sorry, that the vote will be put to the vote. What's good, and I expect that implementation will be in as short a time as possible, means that there will be an implementation. If he stays on the document, it won't be enough. The MOST Club supports and hopes to be included in future perspectives, the national strategy is well-deserved and open to be variable because of various threats and the fact is that these things are seen and whether we have been raised, all of us have been the authority over politics, above what is against the interests of the people, and it is evident that this document that was carried out in accordance with the procedure carried out through public debates, through committees, through associations and civil and defence, has shown the interest of the Croatian man that economic crime never happens again, as the case has happened in Agrokor, does not happen again on monetary policy. If we all get involved, all these resources from kindergartens, education, education, health care, military, reserve, I wish the general had talked a little bit more about the reserve, but still I think, it's a very important organisational force, but we just have to run those people, that's huge potential, and that's huge power, that's people who can't wait to continue helping their country, especially those who were defending their country. And here in the end, I expect that there will still be a consensus on the key of this matter, mainly as the proposings that you have worked together and in the last term when you were a representative, you have invested great energy, you have warned about this and finally that Croatia will receive one document and this document to be implemented in reality and I expect that we will have a stable and secure life in the Republic and so on and the development and survival of people in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42032	Thank you. And here, we've come to the very end. Finally, on behalf of the prime minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krsticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42033	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here, after 9 and a half to this day, up to 3 and a half, strong as in the function of the promoter, I would like to express first and foremost the satisfaction that we are here for the third time, which is before the end, and I hope that after these discussions and today after all the discussions today that were in this Croatian Parliament, we will end this process and that, with everything that is well positive, we will be useful from all these discussions that we will adopt the Strategy of National Security and the Law on the Homeland Security System. What I want to point out once again at the outset is that the issue of national security is above all parties and that this complex security environment can only be faced with a common approach by a number of external and internal security and threats and risks and challenges. Yours, all of you here and parliamentary representatives and representatives, support to all of us who are now responsible for the security system, it also means a great deal to us in continuing to work on the protection and development of national interests, as well as planning, implementation, monitoring the achievement of the strategic objectives that arise from these interests. I would like to point out once again that the adoption of this strategy is not the end but the beginning of intensive work which is very important on the action plan, because the strategy is one policy document. We must work very hard on the action plan, on concrete activities in support of this strategy. We need to work on sectoral strategies, standard operating procedures. For every crisis situation, we need to start thinking unimaginable that some things might happen to us. We all need to get rid of our limitations together, and he's a regular way of thinking just to be faster, better, and more ready. We will also have to work on changing certain laws and all other documents dealing with both national and national security. Today, sovereignty and territorial integrity are less threatened and much more national constitutional values, vital resources, critical national infrastructure. It is therefore important to point out once again that this strategy puts individual security first and highlights the security partnership, the involvement of economic operators, scientific, professional institutions, private, public sector, civil society organisations, defence associations, defenders as well as each individual citizen in the security system. This partnership creates a relationship with everything that the system is built for, but which appears as a creator and that system which strengthens the integrated approach. So the system is open to anyone and we can hire anyone we think has the ability at that given moment to deal with all the threats and risks. It's the only way we can avoid what we have at this point, and it's a fragmented security system that achieves certain results, but with a lot of effort and with the irrational spending of human, material, financial and... resource with difficulties in achieving synergy results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore today, Croatia and the EU's North Atlantic Alliance are committed to supporting peace-building and international order based on international law. The Republic of Croatia also uses all the advantages of membership to strengthen its own security, but also acts as a responsible member in strengthening the unity of these two organisations and expanding the area of stability beyond our borders, thus strengthening internal security. It is up to all of us to continue working together in a holistically inclusive way, so once again, I want to thank all of you both for your parliamentary representatives and MPs today. I thank the Presidents of the Republic, the Prime Minister, all the authorities of the state administration, the academic community, civil society organisations, the private sector, numerous experts and individuals, and then defense associations. There are also generals who have also helped us very much to lead with General Gotovina and surely again today, and you are also making a great contribution to the development of this strategy. Your role will also be very important in the process of monitoring the implementation of this strategy through annual reports, and clearly through the adoption of this and all future national security strategies. As for the Law on the Homeland Security System, we made sure that we had one system. You know we've run an analysis of the current state of the national security system, we've seen the strengths of the system. Our security system has strength. We've seen the weaknesses of the system, we've seen the opportunities for improvement, and we've seen the threats. We've also done a handful of system analysis, and we've seen what are the political, sociological, technological, economic factors of our system. Right from that position, we made sure we needed a system. Only the system because we are now talking about the national security system, but the experts working intensively know that no document nor is nor is nor is the national security system defined, nor are certain parts of that system. We're talking police, military, security-intelligence system, mountain rescue, fire department, but it's nowhere. Now for the first time, for the first time, we define exactly who makes up the Homeland Security System. And I think it's very important and very, very important to us. And what is another very important thing in this system of homeland security, we want to include in this security partnership other than all these state-owned security elements that we want to include in the private sector. There's a lot of security in the private sector. Here's an example. Security companies have almost 20,000 security guards. HV only has 16,000 soldiers. I don't think we have one comet to turn that part on. Then there must be representatives of defense associations, then civil society associations, including citizens. One citizen, believe me, in an open system, with one little piece of information, you know how much he can help us? We can't imagine, so we want those citizens just to work together, so we can deal with all these threats and risks. We took care of ourselves, and as the parliamentary representative who participated very much, colleague Vlaho Orepić, who participated very much, we were careful not to enter the jurisdiction, or jurisdiction in our country. It is precisely known the responsibility of the government, which is the responsibility of the president and what is the responsibility of all the institutions that are dealing with security today. We didn't want to spend time on this right now, I think it's unnecessary, but we wanted to do it in one light way, through this coordination to connect and connect, to coordinate and what's very important when we have one crisis situation, that we can make one coordination of synergy, to connect these abilities and what we wanted to do, that one upgrade of the existing security system and I think through the law, through this part of today's debate, through all your proposals, suggestions, what's good we're going to include in that second reading, so that this law is upgraded and that it really is one good step towards establishing a real, modern, rational, efficient, effective system of homeland security. It is clear that in all of this we must make sure that this system is primarily rational, that we share abilities and combine all the abilities we have, so that we can deal with all these threats and risks with which every modern society and thus Croatian society faces. And I'm saying, I believe that by working together, I'm asking you all together, this is a matter of profession and us and parliamentary representatives, and even if the minister and politicians have to listen to the profession, we have to be careful and we have to make sure that we develop and all the abilities we need to deal with all these threats and risks. That's the question of the reserve. You know that you had my reserve in the homeland war and credited first of all with the Guard brigades, but in that part and reserve brigades and homeland units and all the other people in Croatia have done a lot, made us defend ourselves, and later to free up the premises that were temporarily occupied. And our task is now that this spare part, yes, it is necessary and these abilities, to expand the ability base are needed, we have ignored it because of the lack of financial resources, due to insufficient vision of the development of the reserve. And in this system of homeland security, we need the reserves and I believe that we will step by step build the reserve and also put that reserve into the system of homeland security and those capabilities from the reserves we need to strengthen these existing capabilities, so this year we intend to engage, or further train one reserve power. Here, I want to thank you once again, in the end, all of you, for all of this, all of what we think is good, useful, necessary and within the strategy, we will include here and I say another law in the Homeland Security System, and we will also include that you, these two documents would need Croatia at this moment from the position, I think that we need to strengthen our security system, and I think that we just need it after 15 years that we have one of this strategic document and that with this strategic document and that we have the Implementation Act or the Homeland Security System Act precisely with a view to making our security system better, more quality, faster, so that we can deal with all these threats, the risks in that part. Here's another thank you to all of you and I expect also to continue to engage all of you in support of strengthening security in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42034	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense. We have two replicas, the first of which is a distinguished colleague of the Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42035	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister of Defence, so here I am glad that we are in voting on the National Security Strategy and I am pleased to be in... There's a drug reference to the security environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, unlike the area of defence, for many years and already started preparing a national strategy to combat drug abuse for the period 2018 to 2025, and I believe that the national security strategy will be an important document when adopting a strategy to combat drug abuse. Therefore, in view of the geostrategic situation on the road between producer and consumer countries, Croatia is on the so-called The Balkan route. It is known that heroin from Afghanistan and marijuana as the main psychoactive substance in Albania goes across our territory and is not negligiblely seized by competent institutions. When we talk about drugs, it's inevitable to talk about crime, so the UN has its own special office for drugs and crime. So drugs are certainly one of the significant factors of the security threat, and it is therefore important, although it is only in one sentence that there is both this element and that dimension as one of the elements of the security threat in the National Security Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42036	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42037	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Government. Here's a short replica, and it's about the end... this exposure may not be said today, of course, that implementation of the demand strategy and the necessary communication between all actors and the ministry because one of the objectives of this strategy is the development of the economy. According to the data I read, 118 companies are operating with the NATO Alliance of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, high standards are required here and often very, very short delivery deadlines. NATO's alliance seeks other than weapons and military equipment are goods of broad consumption, IT communication devices, construction works, shoes, clothing. In that sense, it would be very good, I think that the entrepreneurs expressed their desire for the ministry to serve them and help them get the necessary certificates as soon as possible because they are reportedly looking for certain certificates that take some time, and I think there is also an opportunity for Croatian entrepreneurs to come to the market and eventually develop the economy, which is then a prerequisite and better security for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42038	Dear colleague Sagar, thank you very much for this replica. So it is clear that exactly what we have said about the system of Homeland Security and its core task is to take care of the security of each individual, the security of our entire Croatia. Another very important task of this home security system is to support the development of the Croatian military industry. And as you know, within the Ministry of Defence, we have already signed a 230 million kuna contract in the beginning of the financial year through all competitions, with the aim of closing the process at the beginning of the financial year. You know that Croatian soldiers are fully equipped with Croatian products and in every position we are in a position to help Croatian producers. You know there was an ASDA fair in Split where we were also in support of the Croatian military industry. You know, about two months ago, that our Galeb firm got one job within NATO, a big job, so we do every day to strengthen the Croatian military industry. Here I can now announce to you for the first time in the 9th month in Afghanistan, the Croatian soldier will go armed with a Croatian rifle. So far she has been a spare rifle, I have decided that for the first time so that we want to help, we want to develop the economy and we want the system of homeland security to help all Croatian producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42039	Thank you. And I hereby conclude the debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Homeland Security System and also the Proposal for a National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Defense and his associates. Congratulations on the excellently done great work and we expect a second reading, of course. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're gonna take a break from eight minutes. At 1600 hours we will continue with the report on the European Council meeting held on 22 and 23 June and on the meeting of the European Council in the format E27 held in Brussels on 29 April will be discussed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. It's 3:50 a.m. Proposal for a National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, the proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP representative club, the SDSS representative club and the representative Ante Sanader. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments submitted, here is Tomislav Ivic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Please, let's take the next order. The first is the SDP Representatives' Club, Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42041	It's unacceptable. Explanation. It is recognised in the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the applicant considers that this is not necessary in the proposed National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia to be adopted under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal is also not recognised in the 2002 National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, nor in the draft National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which was developed in 2010 and 2012. In addition, I state that in 2005 the Croatian Parliament adopted the Declaration of Antifascism and there is no need to state this in this document as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42042	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, is anyone going to show up? Comrade Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42043	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, we have proposed our amendment in our best faith. So the amendment, you are right, is based on the Croatian Constitution, this National Security Strategy is a fundamental strategy of our country and an expression of the political will of this Parliament and of the Government that proposes it. And that is why it is necessary, with the Homeland War, to mention antifascism as a valuable foundation of our country. If that's not how it's done, there's gonna be a lot of doubt as to why it's not done. If we remember the debate we had in this House, all the MPs in this assembly have declared themselves anti-fascists and support anti-fascism as a valuable foundation of our country. According to that, there's no reason for this, or almost everyone, excuse me, maybe not everyone, there's no reason why this amendment would refuse. If the government is truly credible, if the government truly respects President Tudjman's political heritage and politics, the first president of the HDZ, if the people sitting in this assembly and declared themselves in the debate as anti-fascists, they will indeed confirm their words in their works and show how they respect and how they interpret the Croatian Constitution. According to this, I still see no reason and your explanation is unsurpassed, that there is a reason why the political will of this House, the political will of the Government would not be contained in the National Security Strategy, and thus bring the strategy fully in accordance with the Constitution because many times we have said antifascism and antifascism, the values of antifascism as well as the Homeland War are the foundations of our country and our society. And so I ask you to reconsider before you vote on these amendments, which Croatian citizens will think about people who speak one thing and do the other. Thank you very much. And I demand a vote, of course, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42044	Please join the vote on amendments to the SDP that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received enough votes and therefore has not become part of this strategy. We are now moving on to the amendments to the SDSS Representatives Club. Let's start with Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42045	The government does not accept this amendment. Explanation. This paragraph states that the Republic of Croatia will develop as a democratic and free state capable of protecting its population, territory and sovereignty, national identity, the highest values of constitutional order, human rights and freedoms. Since they are in Article 3. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, in which national equality belongs among other things, is of the opinion that there is no need in particular to single out national equality in relation to the other highest values of the constitutional order. Human rights and freedoms are highlighted in the vision because the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia is based on a model of human security in which security is not implemented in a way that threatens and undermines human rights and freedoms, as well as a system of homeland security is based on respect for human rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42046	My fellow Milosevic, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42047	On behalf of the SDSS Club, I accept the government's argument and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42048	Thank you. Amendment number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42049	It's unacceptable. Explanation. The whole paragraph concerns the challenge of mass migration movements towards Europe, migration, migrants and refugees, and is unclear as to what the rise in social and economic inequality and populist policies is about. The rise in social and economic inequality is a problem that occurs in countries, and mass migration towards Europe is caused by both social and economic inequalities from which the country comes migrants and refugees.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42050	Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42051	On behalf of the SDSS Club, I accept the government's argument and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42052	Thank you very much. Third amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42053	The government accepts the third amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42054	He becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42055	The Government does not accept that amendment. Explanation. This Chapter exclusively describes security threats, risks, challenges for the Republic of Croatia and does not respond to what is proposed. The answer is given in chapter 4 in the strategic objective of achieving the highest level of security, protecting the population, and critical infrastructures.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42056	Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42057	On behalf of the SDSS Club, I accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42058	Thank you. Amendment number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42059	The amendment is not accepted. We think it is unnecessary for the strategic objective to particularly highlight the regionally evenly developed economy because it is covered by the development of a strong and sustainable economy. When entering instruments and mechanisms for implementing this objective, different areas are covered, so there is no point in selecting some of them in particular, they point out in the title of the objective to remain generic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42060	Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42061	On behalf of the SDSS Club, I accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42062	Amendment number 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42063	The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42064	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42065	He also accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42066	And he becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42067	The Government also accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42068	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42069	The government doesn't accept. Explanation. The term "all victims fall for Croatia" includes both civilian victims and all war victims, and there is no need to specify them specifically because all victims fell for Croatia are both civilian victims and all victims of war.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42070	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42071	The SDSS Club accepts the explanation and we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42072	Thank you. And Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42073	The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42074	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Now we move on to the amendment of Agent Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42075	The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42076	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the law, of the strategy. Excuse me. In accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the proposal for a National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, together with the amendments adopted by the Government. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 98 votes for and 35 abstentions have been adopted by the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia together for the accepted amendments. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 16.05 HOURS]] It is next: - Report on the European Council meeting held on 22 and 23 June 2017 and on the meeting of the European Council in EU format 27 held on 29 April in Brussels; Report submitted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report in accordance with Article 11. Law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. You received the report at the session. I welcome the Prime Minister and ask for an opening report. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42289	Good day again, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. According to our already established practice, we have an opportunity after the last European Council on the eve of the summer break to consider the basic aspects of the conclusions after the debate we had in Brussels on Thursday and Friday. I will take advantage of this opportunity, and you have seen this in the report on your benches, so that I can finally look back at the EU 27 meeting, which was April 29th and in the context of the adoption of the mandate for the negotiations in accordance with Article 50 on the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU. The main debate topics of this last European Council were security and defence, growth and employment, competitiveness, migration, the Paris Climate Agreement, digital Europe and external relations topics. When it comes to security and defence issues, the key emphasis was on combating terrorism, preventing terrorist propaganda on the Internet, in particular by strengthening information exchange and strengthening control and protection of the EU's external borders. Of course, most colleagues pointed out and expressed their condolences as I did to British Prime Minister May on a series of terrorist attacks that took place in the United Kingdom a few weeks ago. The task of both the EU and the Croatian Governments is to guarantee the safety of our citizens, everyone who resides in the Republic of Croatia, so in the context of this topic, which was a key topic at the beginning of the meeting, it is good that she co-incided with this debate this morning here in the Croatian Parliament on the National Security Strategy, on the law, on the system of Homeland Security where Deputy Prime Minister Krstičević presented the process and activities that have taken place for the past 8 months together. At EU level, a key emphasis is placed on preventing the radicalisation of its own citizens. So this is a problem that is not so visible or present in our society. However, in many, especially large old EU members, this is a matter of first-class importance together with a very sensitive issue of returning foreign fighters from the Middle East, the Middle East, especially Syria and Iraq. We've decided on the council that external border control is better. One of the most important aspects and tasks of the Union institutions and Member States. Therefore, it is also expected to implement a new legislative package on the so-called so-called legislative package. the smart limits, therefore, of the system of entry and exit to the EU and of the travel information system and of their approval. We are from this aspect in one special position as a country that is preparing to meet all the obligations that involve entering the Schengen area and here and yesterday, I would like to remind you, we have had the opportunity to formally connect our systems to the Schengen Information System, you know how important it is for obtaining credibility as a partner within the EU who is able to control, record systematically all entry and exit to our territory. And of course this possibility of Schengen databases will give us an opportunity and that much better, much faster solve certain requirements and questions that have on the agenda and our bodies. We have therefore entered into the conclusions one sentence when it comes to taking into account the specific circumstances of those Member States which are not yet in a position to fully apply the Schengen acquis. A similar formulation this time, we included it more precisely in December and this formulation enabled us to agree on a revised Schengen code that entered into force on 7 April and you saw the problems that occurred during the Easter holidays. For an agreement and a legal basis by the European Commission in dialogue with counterpart Cerar and Commission President Tusk, we have avoided traffic at the border since our meeting on 29 April. With this formulation, we leave room for Croatia to have, given that no one can know with full certainty what time the political decision and our membership in Schengen will take place, so that we can have some room for manoeuvre and try to adapt the legal instruments that will be adopted at the level of the European Union institutions in the meantime. So the point is we have the same status as the other one. When it comes to defence and foreign policy issues, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini also gave her written and natural and oral report on the implementation of the EU's Global Security and Defence Strategy. Otherwise, it will be in Croatia, Friday evening, to attend the final part of the Southeast European Co-operation Process and the evening ahead of the start of the traditional Dubrovnik forum where it will have the opportunity to talk to key officials and leaders of the Southeast European countries and those who will be at this forum. We, of course, welcomed further progress and activities in implementing this global strategy, with now a realistic framework of one year in five key priorities, stronger co-operation in the area of defence security, building so-called construction. the concept of the resilience of Member States and Member States' societies to all security threats we are facing today, to an integrated approach to conflict resolution and global crises, to the concept of so-called concept. the co-operative regional order and at the last point, which is to make a key contribution to the EU, in terms of global governance in the 21st century. We also believe that it is essential to make further progress in the area of permanent structured cooperation, it is particularly important for further progress in making better use of our defence policy capabilities. For its part, Croatia will, of course, insist on ours, we can now say to the traditional position, that the North Atlantic Alliance is the cornerstone of collective defence is an important link to transatlantic cooperation but we also support the strengthening of military capabilities, defence capabilities, instruments that have been developing very dynamicly in the EU's coverage over the past 15 years, and therefore we will also advocate the inclusiveness and solidarity and complementarity of all EU activities in this area with what we are doing and what we are doing within the North Atlantic Alliance. As regards the issues of employment growth and competitiveness, it was particularly important for us to formally adopt those decisions already approved at Council level, in particular the Economic and Financial Affairs Council, so this year's cycle of the European Semester where Croatia, as you know after specific recommendations, achieved its objectives relating to fiscal consolidation, in 2016 and 2017. Therefore, the European Council confirmed the exit of the Republic of Croatia from the corrective mechanism of the Stability and Growth Pact, i.e. the excessive deficit procedure. We know that with us on this council and in June at the level of ministers and now at the European Council, Portugal has also achieved this achievement. The conclusions themselves concerned positive messages on deepening the single market, making progress in all its elements, promoting growth, creating new jobs and promoting investment and innovation. The main debate took place in the context of certain protectionist trends, which exist at global level, in particular with regard to some major countries, and in this respect, a debate was held on how to balance and manage essentially the process of globalisation, the system, the multilateral system of international trade, primarily based on the rules of the World Trade Organisation, while at the same time the Union, which is in some way the main promoter of free trade, comes into place that it is ready and able to implement all trade agreements in a way that they contribute to our economic growth and the creation of new jobs. Several Member States have just because of such global circumstances highlighted the possibility of safeguard mechanisms and, above all, a kind of screening, as well as the recording of foreign investments and the instruments of international procurement, i.e. international public procurement, in a way that protects strategic sectors. Most Member States have specific legislation to take into account what strategic investment is in their countries, and it is clear that some Member States have noticed that some global forces invest in those sectors that are of national interest and importance and that they want to support control mechanisms in a certain way, to have a thorough insight into certain sectors that go a little further than the defence industry. As regards the priorities of the 2017 Annual Growth Survey, it is important to note that the President of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, who presented the overall assessment of the economic situation in the EU, also confirmed the continuation of positive consecutive trends in 16 quarters regarding economic growth. The EU's unemployment rate, today at 2009 level, is therefore positive data and trends that we have, which affect, of course, economic trends in Croatia, are currently assessed as positive. In recent years, 5 million new jobs have been created at EU level, much more compared to the crisis period about ten years ago compared to other countries, especially the US. At this point, the Commission estimates that when it comes to Croatia, the situation in the area of public finances is significantly improved, and expects a continuation of the smart fiscal consolidation trends we have been carrying out for the past few years and which at this point qualify us among those countries that can be said to be in positive trends. And this is confirmed by GDP growth and import growth and here, on today, the number of unemployed in Croatia is 170 thousand people, which is the best data after a series of years, and currently more than 53,000 people are employed more than two years ago. These are all important data, it was good and it coincided with the stay in Brussels, that the European Commission approved that very day and 90m euros in funding for a series of projects in transport policy, of which as many as 72m euros in grants, therefore slowly at the threshold of the fourth anniversary of our EU membership, we see a certain faster dynamic of the absorption of European funds. A topic that also occupied heads of state and government. It was a matter of migration. So it is free to say in the last few years on each European Council a very important topic. There is an agreement on further engagement to address the causes of migration, so far beyond our borders, far beyond our nearest neighbours with one coherent action and external and security and trade, the development policies of the missions we jointly undertake, partnerships with other organisations, international NGOs and dialogue with those countries which, by many criteria, have failed by themselves to have fragile situations of poverty, wars, conflicts and all other causes that generate trends such as large migration and refugee waves that we have witnessed in recent years. We are of course committed to reforming the common European asylum system, strengthening the common asylum policy, and implementing the principle of solidarity, especially in the context of those countries most affected by the refugee crisis. At this point, the dominant focus is on the still increased inflow of migrants across the mid-Mediterranean route. When it comes to the eastern Mediterranean Balkan direction, there is an intensity of migration somewhat lower, although there are some movements. But we can still say and this is also seen in the end line and in Croatia that this direction is not particularly intense at the moment. From the point of view of Croatia, it is particularly important that we keep dialogue and respect the agreement between the EU and Turkey since last year, since without any dilemmas, Turkey's geographical position and the fact that millions of refugees and migrants are on its territory at the moment is a capital question whether or not that eastern Mediterranean route will be active or not. And therefore, despite all other topics relating to respect for the rule of law, human rights, freedom of the media, the overall functioning of institutions in Turkey is our position continuously such that we must have a serious dialogue with Turkey because its attitudes and its moves depend very directly on the dynamics of possible further waves that would have a migration-resilient character. We also discussed the latest situation on the Paris Climate Agreement. The mood of all EU members of the Union is of course not a bit partial to the recent news of the US's announced exit from the agreement, since it is a multilateral agreement that continues the process for a number of years and which should be respected from the EU's point of view, that is to try to implement it maximumly and try to see it in dialogue with the United States how, if not completely, at least in some respects, the agreements reached in Paris. The topic of digital Europe is important for the European economy. It was part of the debate. The country that is next president, so after Malta whose mandate will end in the end of June taking over the presidency is Estonia. Estonia is one of the new member states, the smaller states, but the country that has achieved a very large achievement with regard to the implementation of the digital AGENDA, in terms of electronic functioning in general, from administration to companies, to the way and culture of business, and it is clear that this topic will be the most important for them. They announced a special summit that will be held in Estonia in late September where a single digital market, the potential of creating almost 4 million new jobs, and you know that digital AGENDA implementation estimates are around 340 billion euros in growth and contribution to European GDP. When it comes to the debate we had on external relations, this topic is most often in terms of the technology of the meeting, part of the debate that takes place during the working dinner. A few key topics have been discussed. In particular, it was an important topic concerning the extension of the restrictive measures regime towards the Russian Federation for an additional six months, where the two Member States leading the implementation of the EU policy and we can even tell the International Community about the situation in Ukraine. So, Chancellor Merkel and French President Macron, to whom this was the first arrival on the European Council, presented efforts in implementing the Mine Agreement under the Normanian format, so dialogue between the leaders of France, Germany, Ukraine and Russia, where it is nevertheless evident that the major shifts and real results of the process being conducted at the moment are not available. So it will soon be three years from the Minesk Agreement. As you remember they were reached in early September 2014 and the trends that threaten in some way are similar scenarios for Ukraine for the areas of Donjecka and Luhanska as visible in terms of frozen conflict in the past years in Georgia. And on this very trail, and not only France and Germany, but the entire EU is looking for mechanisms to contribute to the process. I've briefed my colleagues on the activities of the task force we have along with our Ukrainian colleagues. Here is Zdravka Busic, a state secretary who will participate next week in London for a special meeting co-organised by British Minister Boris Johnson, Ukrainian Minister Pavlo Klinkin with a number of EU members, where he seeks to do exactly what we are doing to help the European AGENDA. Ukraine is at the same time a transfer of experiences from the peace reintegration process, which, in our deep confidence, is led by a special envoy to Austrian diplomat Martin Sidik, who is otherwise a good friend and acquaintance of Croatia, who, on a daily basis, seeks to contribute to the implementation of an agreement from Minsk and to prevent a long-term frozen conflict that would otherwise have happened on our part, we can say that we are giving exactly the same... a contribution expected from Croatia in these circumstances, given some similar historical experiences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From other foreign political topics, President of the European Council and President of the Commission Juncker have informed us in detail about the components they have held with both Turkey and US President Trump, with Chinese leaders, so a narrow round of European institutions leaders has been conducting several dialogues since our last meeting, which was April 29th. The topic, of course, which has now become an inevitable topic for all European councils, is the start of negotiations in accordance with Article 50 on the exit of the UK from the EU. You also know that the authorised, chief negotiator on the part of the Union, Michel Barnier, former Commissioner and former French minister and several resolutions, not only foreign affairs, where, above all at this point, the methodology of the negotiations that will take place in the cycles will be approximately, every week, an informal contact at a lower level, negotiations and consultations in Brussels itself, consultations with the Member States, and the British instance May, has given a certain, encouraging message, that it wants citizens, members of the EU, who are in the UK, to retain their bankruptcy rights, Croatia's status in this context is somewhat specific, but clearly articulated our position and in front of all 27 members, and I have said it directly to the Prime Minister May directly. Therefore, Croatia is in a position that the last Member State, a Member State that will have the least impact on each other's relations in terms of the completion of this process, which will obviously take a minimum of 2 years before us. If we wanted to, although the UK is one of those countries that used that formula you remember from our accession contract, that in order to protect the labour market, individual Member States can have transitional periods of 2 years and 3 years and another 2 years, so for a maximum of 7 years. The UK is currently in here, the last, beginning of the last year of this formula 2 + 3, but our position is that we want Croatian citizens to have the same status as the other Member States and we will insist on this in the negotiation process and I think there is a high level of understanding in both the commissions and the British side that this is realised because it is not in the extreme line and it is not too many people, i.e. the UK. Our citizens. The topics also discussed at the end of that meeting were the debate on the move of 2 agencies based on London, so the European Medicines Agency, the European Banking Agency, the European Council, adopted a set of criteria on how to even come into a position to decide on a future seat. Certain criteria have been adopted, what is already known to the Croatian public, as many as 21 Member States have expressed ambition to take over the centre of the European Medicines Agency. One of these 21 is Croatia, we have set up a working group, so at the head of the health minister Kujundzic, all relevant resolutions are included, at this point the criteria that we can say, somewhat favourite for Croatia since we are one of those members who does not currently have the headquarters of any European agency, this is certainly a positive aspect, it is a positive aspect and tradition of our public health, pharmaceuticals, etc. But what is important, there will be a lot of care about what concrete proposals are on, we can say the very building in which the European Medicines Agency would be located, so it should be kept in mind that about 900 employees are currently there, 36,000 people are coming to a number of meetings annually, mainly doctors, pharmacists, lawyers dealing with issues of the Agency's competence and what is very important are important criteria of transport, therefore, availability and all other benefits that can be. Of course, the fact that the agency in London is currently representing, we can say high standards in terms of internationalising the way people who are employed there, but Croatia will, by 31 July, submit their candidacy, then contrary to these criteria, make decisions on which country these two agencies will go to, the urgency is that decisions are made by October or November if everything goes according to plan. Just in the end, let me say a few words about that meeting that was April 29th. So, a 27-format meeting, when the negotiating framework was adopted, it was much more relevant for Croatia in view of the activities we had on the margin, and these activities were related to what I said, an agreement with the Slovenian Prime Minister and President of the Commission Junker, the President of the European Council, on the fact that at the border crossings, once more crowds have been established in agreement between the two police, are moving from systematic to targeted controls, and, as you can see, since 29 April, mostly without major difficulties, traffic between Slovenia and Croatia is taking place. The key argument we have made is that there must be no too many differences between those EU members who are in Schengen today than those who are not, we prove our credibility to be quality control of entry, or exiting Croatia at the borders with non-EU members, so in all other neighbouring countries, and this system that we have established at the border with Slovenia allows us to protect our national interests, primarily economically. Croatia is a tourist destination, 70% of our guests come by road, either by private vehicles or by buses, so we know how important this aspect is for our economy. And you know for a fact that the share of tourism is about 18.19% in Croatian GDP. There was a lot of understanding on the part of key leaders and commissions and the European Council, as well as other colleagues. It is my impression that, regardless of what is going to happen tomorrow, we must continue the dialogue with Slovenia, so our positions regarding the judgment of the arbitration court and the whole arbitration process from which Croatia is very decided by the decision of the Croatian Parliament of July 2015. I expect the unity of all political actors, and on this trail I took advantage of the occasion in Brussels on Thursday and Friday to send this message to our colleagues and leaders of the EU institutions. Of course, for us, it is the issue of the border, the issue of which the Croatian Parliament decides. The arbitration is irrevocably compromised for us, the resignations made at that time and from Slovenia by the delegated judges, the Slovenian agent makes this arbitration irrevocably corrupt from the aspect of Croatia, and therefore the decisions of the arbitration court regardless of what and how to comment on any other actor, any state or international organisation for Croatia are not acceptable and we on that side despite the formal signal we received from the arbitration court that tomorrow, at some point, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided not to do such a thing, so that judgment has no relevance for us, so we will neither receive it nor receive it, but I suppose we will know when it is published on the Internet or in a transfer that will be tomorrow afternoon. Our positions are solid, we will persist on them and expect in this regard strong support from the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42290	I thank the Prime Minister. We have nine replicas. He's the first representative of Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Prime Minister. At the first session of your government on the proposal of the Most then, a decision was taken to proceed with consultations on the declaration of an exclusive economic belt. Since you were with EU leaders, you have now given a report, and since the exclusive economic zone is the protection of national interest and our natural resource from exploitation and not only of fish but of destroying our submarine from foreign fishing fleets, and the exclusive economic belt would be the protection of national interests, have you spoken to your fellow leaders and our neighbours on the basis of a decision taken at the first session of the Government on the protection of our seas' national interests against the usurpation of foreign shipping companies. And we also know that foreign ships, tankers wash their tanks and create a large oil stain and, of course, tourism is threatened, and therefore our ecological belt in the Adriatic Sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42292	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42293	The esteemed colleague Bulj, as I recall in that decision, is given a period of one year, so the decision you are now referring to is due to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, primarily to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs for a year to conduct consultations on the subject. On this European Council I did not discuss it, I will tell you openly because we had other priority topics that are much more important at the moment, but are in a certain way connected with what I was saying about arbitration and about the fact that this Croatian Parliament has declared a protected eco-fishing belt. The debate on IGP was held at the beginning of last decade, if you remember 2001, the second and third decisions were made at the time, respecting the context and international law, but also respecting the European context especially at the time when Croatia joined the EU. A thorough report on these consultations will be submitted by the Government to the Croatian Parliament at the end of the deadline on which you yourself have called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42294	Thank you. Second replica, dear fellow Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42295	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Prime Minister. In my report, you yourself noted that the views on the subject of the European Semester and the report on the economic and financial situation in the EU have been made, where positive trends have been said through 16 consecutive quarters. It is noted that the level of unemployment at 2009 level has decreased significantly, creating five million places. I haven't seen your point of view and what's been transmitted to your colleagues about your government's results is we have the last quarter that's been reported to be BPD's decline to 2.5%. This only shows that it will also be a problem with the budget because you have projected your budget at 3.2% and that would mean that in the future you will have to make significant adjustments in the budget itself. I don't know if you were communicating that trade growth fell from 7.7% a year to a total of 2.8 a year, although tax reform was being carried out that was supposed to make a significant dispensation of citizens, but it didn't affect trade. What I am pleased to mention in the report itself we have come out of the excessive deficit procedure, but I must remind you that this is still the result of the government of Tihomir Oreshkovic it is for 2016, but with these indicators it will take a lot of work within your government to help us stay out of this procedure. So here I'm curious about what your position was and what your colleagues' reactions to these indicators were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42296	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42297	So, fellow Panenić since you weren't physically at those meetings, so when Mr... the overall assessment of economic and financial trends at EU level is not expected to be one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in which 28 prime ministers would report on all the details of economic indicators at national level rather than apostrophe for Croatia in this context as one of the countries that met the criteria for exiting the excessive budget deficit procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's good are positive trends. Of course, with regard to these indicators, it is also important that what happened before, whether it is the Government of Mr. Oreshkovic, in which you were the Minister of Economy or the former Government or this Government now having responsibility here right now at the end of the third quarter we can say so and all these trends are good. All trends are good and this shows data from the Statistical Office, as well as Eurostat data. The effects of the tax reform that you mentioned in the end show, this shows an increase in employment, a decline in unemployment, the outlook of credit ratings that are during this government, and thanks to the message of political stability and the way we communicate with international actors, which is encouraging that all our outlook from negatives is stable and when it comes to... and about the capacity of the government that had the situation that threatened us literally one tidal wave on the Croatian economy and financial institutions, and here we found a solution, including in dialogue with the MOST, who was then a member of the government about the situation in the Agrokor concert. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are all facts recorded by international actors. So we show the ability to deal with crises and, most importantly, their quality management. So we will continue to work to make fiscal consolidation a trend much longer than one or two seasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42298	Third replica, honorary colleague of the bush, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42299	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister. Here's my colleague Bulj asked a question about an exclusively economic belt. From your answer, I couldn't quite get the impression that you cared too much about it. I think it's our strategic interest. This, however, could be seen during the HDZ-MoST negotiations, was former Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Davor Ivo Stier very much inclined to the idea while you opposed it, so I'm not surprised. And that's why I'd like to ask you a specific question. So when you speak, you mentioned the National Security Strategy today, when you talk about national security and when you talk about a meeting of the European Council, I wonder if in all these talks that were so far rather than specifically at this meeting, you held talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel about Croatia's intention and that this is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia to build its own aggregate optical network. I want to know what the position of the German Chancellor is on this issue and what your position is, regardless of what the position of Germany is, should Croatia go in that direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42300	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42301	It is good that we have these discussions on the European Council because they provide the opportunity for MPs to copy what is currently in the morning and we are touching all other topics that are not necessarily related to the agenda, but that is good. As for the HDZ and MOST negotiations, so when you talk about it, I know which meeting you mean. I told you about the following at the time. You've had 7 guarantees, 3 are your local optics, 3 are your initial experience at national level, and one of you has worked so hard to say that you understand foreign policy and international relations, and I'm standing by it today. Because there is approximately a framework for the political platform and the action and long-sighted activities that MOST has and this has also been shown in these local elections. So, I have remembered our activities in an external political sense a little longer than you colleagues of Grmoja and I remember very well the debate in the Croatian Parliament, the numerous international activities that we had in 2002, '03, '04, all the years after that, the difficult negotiations with the Commission, very special relations with Italy in this context, the specific relations we had with Slovenia, the unresolved issue of the border that affected the topic. And on the other hand, I remember a little bit more, I remember the '90s. Do you remember which statesman visited Zagreb on 16 January 1992? No, it doesn't matter who visited Zagreb on January 16, '92, you may remember a colleague, Bulj, but a colleague of Grmoja doesn't remember. It was then Italian President Cossiga, his visit to the moment, so the day after the EU, or the community collectively recognised Croatia, was not random at that time, it was important, he set the position of the Croatian state summit in that decade according to the IGP declaration we were entitled to, it would be ideal if we had declared it immediately on 16 January '92. And these questions would be closed. What happened later was the fruit of the very complex international relations we had and on this topic the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has the task of working not necessarily at the level of heads of state immediately but at the level of contacts and activities of our diplomatic representations. But this is a topic for a special debate that we can organize in the Croatian Parliament if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42302	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's the first respected colleague of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42303	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, meaning Article 238, paragraph 5, here clearly the Prime Minister insulted the representatives of the Most, our political option, our long-sightedness, our political goals. He didn't answer a single question, so I asked him specifically about the exclusive economic belt and especially the optical grid, he didn't give an answer to that question, but he found time to insult MOST and our far-sighted and political objectives and meant the terms of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42304	So, I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't know why you think the long-sightedness mentioned by the Prime Minister is a criticism of you or an insult, perhaps it's a positive one. So, I don't see any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Bulj, the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42305	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238. Mr. President, I'd ask my colleagues on the left to shut up.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42306	Comrade Bulj, I beg you to be really quiet, but then I would take this opportunity to tell you, now that I warn all of these, that you are also silent when others speak, because you are the loudest while others speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42307	God grant, God give every gift. He gave you the same gift he knew, gave me the same gift. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President. On no question has the prime minister come I said, Article 238, because the prime minister was talking about a subject that was not subject to discussion. [[Intruder President: What article is injured, please?]] On no specific question asked about the network, the DTK network, and also on the economic belt, he was only insulting, not a single concrete answer, of course, because the truth and these issues made him better. But you have a duty, not to protect the Prime Minister, but to protect the Rules of Procedure. The local elections, we are talking about European meetings, with its European officials, and the prime minister is talking about local elections, has given the topic of local elections? [[Tell me, what was the injury? Tell me, what was the insult? Tell me, what was the insult, and I'll warn him not to insult him?]] Do you read the Rules of Procedure? [[President: And what was offensive here?]] Do you read the Rules of Procedure? So Article 238 speaks about a topic that is not the subject of debate, a colleague of Grmoya did not ask the prime minister about local elections but asked him about the DTK network.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42308	A colleague of Thunder, or Bull, so I'd like to tell you something right now. The theme of the European Councils is neither what counterpart Panenic asked nor what you asked, so on the European Councils, the Prime Ministers do not inform All right, I'm asking you, let me just tell you that on the European Council [[- What do you mean? National interest, and what's the question? The Prime Minister's wish to be president of that council or the interest of national Croatia? Or the Prime Minister's wish to be President of the Council?]] So, you've shown your primitiveism many times so you keep going, and since you keep going, I need to let you know, just a little bit, to get it over with. [[/Optica Bulj: It is yours to protect parliamentary representatives, Rules of Procedure, not to favor the prime minister. You know you have to do this, but it's not right.]] So, I didn't take your word for it because you didn't talk about it either, so I let you talk about it because the subject of what's being said on the European Council is certainly not what you asked, so there was no one on my side, any seditions, nor did I take your word for it, the Prime Minister also answered in the way he thought it was right. You said that the Rules of Procedure had been injured, that I do not think so, you would ask the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to give an opinion on whether the Rules of Procedure was injured and whether I was wrong. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42309	Your Honor, I'm requesting a 10-minute recess for insulting a parliamentary representative by the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42310	I'm not going to give you a break for the reason your colleague put out a lot more offensively, you remember that very well. ... I don't have to, I don't judge, and yet you can appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, I don't have to. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here you go, fellow Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42311	Thank you, Mr. President. You are the most named person here to keep the Rules of Procedure and make sure that the session takes place in accordance with it. It is often difficult to say here in the Croatian Parliament, and I do not think it is right that you have just injured Article 238 in paragraph 5, which says that "the reasons for the protracting of the strict measures between others and the demeaning or insulting of the president or other MPs". I think at the moment you told Mr. Bull that he was showing his primitiveism, that you insulted him, that you should, in fact, give yourself a strict measure of caution.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42312	My colleague Glasovac, a colleague of Glasovac, given the weight of the words we hear here in the Croatian Parliament, I have spoken of this many times that it would be good not to do so, I did not give any warning. But if an offensive word is heard on one side, then you can hear it on the other side, so here if you're satisfied, I'll give myself a warning. Here. [[Subject Voter: Yes.]] Comrade Pernar, here you go. We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42314	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister, in your presentation, you mentioned the Schengen area, and yesterday you went to the border to convince yourself how the Schengen Information System works. Schengen is certainly in favour of the Republic of Croatia, and I would say that the EU is also in favour of Croatia's accession to Schengen. You also mentioned that tomorrow there is an arbitration verdict that Croatia does not recognise and there is a very clear Croatian position. However, taking into account the history of relations with Slovenia in the context of European relations, including negotiations and the conclusion of the negotiations we have had, we can expect a kind of political pressure on Croatia to accept this verdict in some way including through the dispute or the disabling of Croatia's receiving into the Schengen area. I am interested in what the Croatian Government intends to do in this case and whether you intend to raise this issue to the European Council and ask for support from members of the European Council. We know that the heads of government and the presidents of the states, not officials, were just as recently said and pointed to the importance of receiving Croatia into the Schengen area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42315	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42316	Thank you for the question regarding Schengen and the day-to-day process, above all, of evaluation and fulfilment of criteria, and we expect the first team to come to see that Croatia is using the Schengen Information System in September, we expect a more complete assessment in November, and the process of political diplomatic lobbying to make a final political decision is always very demanding and usually takes longer than any country assumes. The fact that Bulgaria and Romania are not yet in Schengen, and at the moment we are already on their 10th anniversary of EU membership, says how complex this process is. As for the possible use of rights, so we can freely say veto rights or at least prevent unanimity from making decisions, it's always a two-way process. So our international position today and the one it was at the time of the arbitration agreement is not the same. And whoever would be reaching for their own blockages or preventing the deserved progress of Croatia, based on meeting the criteria, would not go well in my court, I believe that through dialogue we will prevent such situations, but you know well, given your previous experience that there are very many procedural situations at EU level, where it is enough that only one country says no decision is made. Therefore, our position will also be to lead further talks on this issue of border with Slovenia between the two countries responsible for finding a solution and European... We do not burden this type of possible blockage on one side or the other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42317	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42318	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, you said it was good to find a national security strategy in the agenda today in the Croatian Parliament which coincides with this report of the European Council on 29 April, where the radicalisation of its own citizens was actually discussed through this chapter on security and defence. This report also says that for 2016, 142 terrorist attacks occurred, from that time to today, several more have occurred. The issue has been taken into account and is this really the case in the European Council, how many citizens of the EU, those who go to the territory of Syria or the area of ISIL that are actually fighting down and going back to their home countries, and how much is this really a danger? And the second question is what you actually said at the end of the report, and it's about yesterday our border information systems were networked with Schengen, after this meeting with Mr. Junker and the diameter of Slovenia you said that there was no delay at the border crossings. Given tomorrow's decision by the arbitration court, which is irrelevant for us, because of the Croatian Parliament's decision, is whether you expect obstructions from the neighbouring state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42319	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42320	Dear counterpart Babić, on this first issue there is a thorough statistics on the number of foreign fighters who returned to the Member States, we had here a few days ago a beautiful occasion for the holiday of Bajram in the Islamic centre in Croatia and others, where Croatia is unique in this sense, there is not a single recorded case of going to the Middle East, Middle East, Iraq or Syria, which is particularly encouraging and talking about the quality and success of the model of integration of the Islamic community into Croatian society, 101 years of tradition, 15 years of contracts of regulated relations and 1 continuous dialogue where the Islamic community is essentially contributing and sharing and adapting of those people who are currently here in status or refugees or asylum, regarding their acceptance, learning language of knowledge of our culture, about our society and even a subtle process of adaptation. When it comes to this second question, I would wait for tomorrow, so, we see first what it is, I think any one-sided moves that would possibly refer to the content of that decision would not be good, we are absolutely against taking any unilateral action, and this second would be some extra effort that would be entirely different from the spirit of dialogue, which we have with our Slovenian counterparts, ministers, the level of the heads of state, and I think that would be extremely counterproductive for both countries, and I hope that such acquisitions will not be followed by such measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42321	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42322	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished Croatian Government counterparts, you have repeatedly mentioned how policies, external and internal security migration and climate change defence have been discussed, and for all these policies and their implementation, they need increased funds, and in the context of exiting the EU, the UN and the reduction of the European budget, how this will affect other policies. We are all aware that the environment of this policy that you have mentioned needs to allocate more resources from the European budget, in particular, how it will affect the financing of the common, implementation of the common agricultural policy. You said that certain EU members protect certain sectors in the economy in their environment, which Croatia plans to do, which policies we will lead there and how to protect our domestic agricultural production in the context of a further embargo towards Russia and the placement of agricultural products from our producers. And secondly, my question is about EU enlargement and possible entry of BiH. have you taken the opportunity to talk about and in the context and protect against climate change, the state of energy facilities in BiH and the field of emissions, soil, air and water and poisoning of citizens of Slavonski Brod city can you expect more concrete activity on this plan to protect citizens of Slavonski Brod? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42323	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42324	Dear Representative Vlaović. As for the financial repercussions of UK exit from the EU, they will only be visible at the end of the process. So about 80% of the EU budget is funded by the ten largest, richest and most developed EU members, so this is one information rarely presented to the public, but these are facts. Accordingly, the impact of these countries in the decision-making process has a certain weight. The UK, as I remember it now as a former member of the European Parliament's Budget Committee, is part of somewhere between 9.5, 10% of the total budget. Therefore, those resources must be raised from certain other sources. Currently for the past three years, he has been doing a very intensive and very useful job by a group led by former Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, who is engaged in reforming his own income system. And I think that if this group's work was later supported by decision-making through the institutions, that one significant part of the funding of the multiannual financial framework of the European budget could be resolved as painlessly as possible so as not to turn out on every European Council who has won something, who has lost something. The issue of agriculture that is with cohesion policy, the policy of equal regional development can be freely said 1/3 of the European budget is crucial, we have negotiated it well, we use these funds and what it will allow us to reduce the expenditure side of our agricultural allocations, and the increase in subsidies by using EU funds. We talk about Slavonski Brod both bilaterally and with European partners. We will soon have a joint session of the government and the Council of Ministers in BiH, which will be one of the key topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42325	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42326	Thank you, Your Honor. I wanted Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to think that the decline in the number of unemployed is primarily the result of the eviction of a large number of people from the country or perhaps some economic miracle of GDP growth, the swing of the production economy, etc.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42327	I believe that this is in that context coming out of the excessive budget deficit procedure on the subject of the debate on the European Council. So the statistics we have today and which I purposely mentioned are currently unemployed in Croatia slightly more than 170 thousand and these data are verified, accurate and accurate. In order not to make quick conclusions about the idea that you're saying is exclusively because of the emigration of young people, leaving people from the country is important to this second data, which is how much of the same period last year registered to new employees, which is more than 26 thousand people, more than 52 or three thousand people than two years ago. So these data are the ones that prove that there is a trend in job creation, they are a confirmation of positive economic indicators and confirm that there is a prerequisite for creating new jobs in the Croatian labour market in the Croatian economy. This does not mean, of course, that we should not continue to work to prevent or reduce as much as possible the departure of young people from Croatia who are using the freedom of movement that we have in some way wanted with EU membership. However, we need to find a quality balance between creating a prerequisite for employment in the country, adequate income, family formation, looking at the long-term perspective of young people especially in certain parts of the country. It is not in every part of Croatia the same situation, so we started with the project "Slavonia". We will have our second advice Monday afternoon in Požega, and we will seek every measure we take, and one of them was a full tax reform to make these preconditions as firm as possible and to keep more people in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42328	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42329	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Prime Minister. In your presentation, you mentioned the report on the application activities for the Agency's headquarters and I welcome the efforts made and spelled by the government on this matter. In fact, it is very short indeed, and it is one of the most lucrative agencies to be held as head office in one country. We know that there are 900 staff members, their families and 36,000 different visits, over 300m euros is just the agency's budget, so it is estimated about 10m euros directly from the benefits annually where it is based. My proposal is that the deadlines are that one of the greatest ad let's say the conditions is a accommodation capacity of 20 minimum 27 thousand square meters, including the connection of traffic availability and education and everything the country or city has to offer. I, this time as a representative from the 4th constituency, or from the city of Osijek, would just like to suggest that if the city of Osijek can be considered as such, since the city of Osijek has one facility almost 85 thousand square meters which would be more than ideal for it, if it can be done, to consider, it would be one of the larger benefits for that region, for the city, given that it would be put at a far high level on the European map, Europe without talking about all other accompanying things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42330	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42331	Thank you very much, dear colleague Curaj for this initiative and for the idea of considering Osijek as a possible seat of the European Medicines Agency. I also said in the opening speech that this is not a simple game, 21 member states have ambitions, there are cities that are much better connected in terms of transport connections than Zagreb without speaking any other city in Croatia. You know yourself that Osijek in this respect might not be in the most important circle of those who, at least when it comes to air traffic, which is a fact, are perfectly connected. So, I'm very real here, I think we can highlight our candidacy, first of all I think that from the cities in Croatia Zagreb is somehow the most dictated, that there is a certain chance but it's not that simple either. To find an adequate space, here in London today is this building at 27 thousand square meters, it may be in Zagreb but it is also not easy given the numerous conference halls, audiences, large spaces. I don't think it's a simple game for us. We will make a quality proposal, but the criteria set will also take into account transport links, international schools, a whole series of other aspects that must meet at least approximately certain, so let's get rights to call them those who work there. We will do everything on our part and here is Minister Kujundzic, who runs the task force, I will personally tell him that you suggested Osijek, so we will see if it is realistic at this point. Thanks for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42332	Thank you. Now we're moving on to debates around the club of MPs. The first one is the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club. I've heard from my colleague, Bunjac, and my colleague Pernar, I don't know who will. Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42333	Lately, as we have had the opportunity to see from this meeting in Brussels, we are getting messages about the need of so-called. Free trade, liberalization is called. And we are told that this free trade, or single market, will make progress. And we go from year to year to year towards that liberalisation. And I think it's a process that's not in the interest of our society, and I'll explain why. Namely, the exchange rate of the Croatian kuna is overrated against the euro, which means that the price of our import products is less than it should be. So the kuna course, let's say symbolically realistic, means if you were to maintain the actual value of our currency then you'd need more kuna for import products. But as the state exchange rate policy makes the CNB exchange rate stronger than it is import products are cheaper and we're getting into trouble with our production. In fact, until we joined the EU, we had customs duties. And then, on the one hand, the state subsidized imports with monetary policy, so it made import products cheaper but, on the other hand, it bought them up again. And as long as we were outside the EU, as long as customs were simply that customs system partially corrected the issue of courses. And now what's going on? We enter the EU, the course doesn't change, it stays the same as it is and customs all disappear. And overnight, the import goods are getting cheaper. And finally, the final result of such a policy is the breakdown of our agriculture. But unfortunately, our citizens don't understand the role of the central bank at all, they don't understand why it's important for the course to be realistic, they don't understand what it means to be a CNB exchange office and why it concerns them. Unfortunately, this problem I speak of is never mentioned as a subject on the agenda in Brussels, which I do not understand why. And then what happens? Not only has Croatia massacred itself with monetary policy, not only has it abolished protection mechanisms such as customs, not only we have the most taxes in Europe but then we are still importing, that is, imposing sanctions on the Russians and ultimately the last market we have for our agriculture. And finally our country is going down, eventually people are running out. While you were here talking, I typed on Facebook and a mother wrote to me, says today I dropped my child out of school and moved to Germany. Today. So what's going on? Every day more and more people go away and our country goes down. But the problem of moving out of our country is the question of our course, it's a matter of action, it's a matter of blockage. Why, say, the Christmas and the regression of the blocked don't pay off on a secure account but as if they don't get it? These issues are never about the agenda in Brussels and no one in Brussels cares about it and I am sorry for it, I would like that when our Prime Minister Plenkovic comes to Brussels, that he, our prime minister, that he, like me here in the Parliament, tries to distract those European bureaucrats from their topics, on our Croatian topics, to say, ladies and gentlemen, I know that you may be interested in some other things, but in Croatia we have some other problems that require priority resolutions. But unfortunately, I'm afraid the Prime Minister doesn't. That when he simply comes to Brussels, that he, like a HDZ colleague who is sitting here right now, simply listens to what they say, doesn't object to them in anything and simply goes what they say down the river, that there is no resistance and ultimately, what is this European policy for our country, we can most see by economic indicators. There's a lot of talk here about some kind of economic growth, takeoff, etc., but what kind of growth are we talking about? We now have a breakdown of Agrokor, 50 billion kuna loans and obligations to suppliers who will probably never be returned. We have a situation with Petrokemia Kutina that has no place to repay loans, we have a situation where the state has no place to repay its loans, all these topics are never on the European agenda. And I'd like our country to move forward. I would like our Prime Minister Plenkovic to say here we have concrete measures to stop the escape of young people, here, we have a solution, we change monetary policy, here we remove the currency clause, here we change the executive law, so the cost of the implementation is reduced. I'd love to, but unfortunately these measures our prime minister doesn't bring. Those measures are gone. And we, as a society, are constantly stagnating, falling and falling. And unfortunately, it's not from Prime Minister Plenkovic, it's not his fault now, it's not his fault, it's not. It's a policy that's been going on for the last 20 years since 1994. And I wonder why it's so hard to put an end to that policy? Why is it hard to say I want Croatia to succeed, I want us to get out of these problems, I want people to be proud that they are Croats, and not to be ashamed of it, I want to return the pride of the nation that is demoralized, which has lost self-respect, which is convinced that it is incompetent, etc. Why isn't that done? That's what I'm asking you, ladies and gentlemen. Equally from all parties. What happened in Croatia is that all parliamentary representatives and all political parties decided to ignore, unfortunately, the central bank issue, as if there was no such problem. You know, he's sticking his head in the sand. We from the Living Wall repeat over and over again, money is a debt, interest money doesn't exist, credits are invaluable. And everyone ignores it, and then Agrokor comes in, in, credits can't come back. What do we do now? Now we're discussing after this item on the agenda, a new credit to the highways, and the old ones can't come back either. These topics, this topic, let's say theoretical debt repayment, from which the state will repay loans, that's a huge problem, a huge question. No one is interested in this question in the European Commission. They say the deficit has fallen, so I asked Minister Maric when he represented the budget there, I told him, Mr Maric, 27 billion kunas coming to collect, you don't count in budget expenditures at all. 7 billion kuna for which the state guaranteed loans, you also don't count on budget expenditures, interest on all of these types of loans the state guarantees, which the state will repay, are also not counting on budget expenditures. It's just all the burden of debt, hiding, all the burden of debt being put aside. It's parallel accounting, unfortunately. And then what happens? And then apparently it's said as we've reduced the deficit. And we have reduced the deficit and the real hole in the budget is bigger than ever, the real commitment Croatia has to settle and which is nowhere to settle, is the biggest in history. The greatest in history. There's never been this many credits coming in to collect. And what's going to happen? From year to year, more and more amounts will be coming. No one in the Croatian government cares, and worst of all, the Croatian public doesn't care about that. I thought that when I go out on the street, when I tell people that these are the main problems in the country, it means the role of the central bank, the high taxes, that people will say yes, that's what chokes the economy, but people say no, our central bank policy doesn't care, and why? Because it's always going, i.e. People think for themselves. So they don't think that other people have no money. They're just bothered that they're money. They're not wondering if the homeless is a general phenomenon in society. Is credit over-indebted and inability to repay loans a problem of their own, or is it a problem of the whole society. And then from that individual thinking they find instead of a systematic solution, individual solutions are found. And you know what kind? Here's a raid in Shenkovec near Chakovec yesterday I played the piano. There we were carried by me and my colleague, Marijan Dominka, of the Varazdin County, who is our councilman there in the congregation. Why? Credits can't be returned. At the same time, Todorovic, who owes billions to him, will not be disbursed. He lives in a castle and laughs. Imagine Todoric who left behind such debts he watches on television the dissuading of the poor and he thinks God knows what he thinks. But in any case, the system is unfair, it's not normal and relationships in our society are not natural. And I appeal to you, Mr. Plenkovic, as prime minister to do something. If you want, if you're interested in my opinion, we can sit together at the table. We can talk. But I am afraid that simply guilt is not actually on HDZ and Plenkovic as prime minister because they change nothing that needs to be changed but a Croatian people who has no consciousness, who has no will and who doesn't care. So the Croatian people are uninterested. The only person in this House who consistently points to the crucial problem of the role of the CNB from day to day, from debate to debate, from replica to replica, from debate to debate, unfortunately, as if I'm talking to no one. And I wonder often what the meaning of these speeches is? Do they reach out to anyone's ears, does this interest anyone in Croatia at all? Whether Croatian voters who are without money and in loans are wondering if it's just their problem or whether it's the role of the central bank. Then when I tell them the problem is the role of the central bank, then they say no, no, no. It's not the CNB's problem, it's not the fact that we're being robbed. Okay. They stole. I'm asking those people who stole from you? So they say mostly HDZ. And then I look at the election results, then the same ones that are supposed to make people without money, which is why people say they have no money to win the election. And however you turn the consciousness of the Croatian people is unfortunately low and here I ask you colleagues from HDZ in a few years we Croats from these areas will disappear. We're gonna run out of men, ladies and gentlemen. And then we can wave. Let's say it like this who will then wave the Croatian flag, who will hold his hand on the heart, who will go to the army of Croatia, who will go to the anniversary of the military action, who will place the crowns on the graves of those who gave for this country life. I think the survival of the Croatian people in these areas is currently at stake, and neither is the Croatian government nor Brussels doing anything to stop the disaster coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42334	We don't have a replica, so we're moving on to another club of representatives. This is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, distinguished counterpart Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42335	Dear colleagues and colleagues, President of the Parliament. I welcome the President of the Government of Mr Plenkovic, thank you for regularly coming to the Croatian Parliament and reporting to us on the meetings of the European Council. I think it is important for all of us for a few reasons, and first of all because we finally have to in 2017 it seems to me that European topics are our Croatian topics long ago not a question of our foreign policy. Well, that's why I'm sorry that here's the thing, if I can see the SDP club too, there's nothing to say about it. MOST's got no one. Here's a colleague from the SDP, though. I'm also sorry and incomprehensible, so it's just that it doesn't agree on most of the topics, but I think it is necessary on the European topics of essence in the Croatian Parliament and to speak. Secondly, it is the EU's approach to citizens that is the central motive for the debate on the future of Europe, and today's debate on meetings of the European Council at the Parliament's meeting is exactly one way to update European topics in the public. As you've heard from the Prime Minister, this report shows in fact that all the topics I'm going to list are said all the topics are very important to the Republic of Croatia. So, first security and defense. Second, growth, employment and competitiveness. Third, migration. Fourth, the Paris Climate Agreement. Fifth, digital Europe and sixth external relations. The first security and defence are certainly crucial for our economic stability, especially for the tourism we are increasingly dependent on. It should be highlighted within this point, thus combating terrorism and preventing terrorist propaganda on the Internet, and strengthening control and protection of external borders. I believe that we will all support the European Commission's efforts to implement the EU's global security and defence strategy as well as common defence tools, as well as the European Defence Fund. In this place, he commends the government of the Republic of Croatia for its efforts to get into the Schengen area as soon as possible, as well as the prime minister for agreeing with Mr Juncker and Mr Cerar on the border control solution just before the start of the tourist season. The second point is employment growth and competitiveness. I think it's worth showing our support for the completion of the single market and all aspects of the single market, with a note important, and I'm going to talk about it a little later at the point of migration, which is internal migration, the struggle for talent in the 21st century. And the importance of the single market, although some do not seem to agree with it in this assembly, is, unfortunately, particularly important from the position of exporting Croatian companies. So the exports of Croatian companies and tourism over the past few years are actually a key contribution to why we finally came out of the crisis, and then technically from recession. It is evident optimism across the EU regarding both economic growth and employment that we have heard 16 consecutive quarters of economic growth, employment growth primarily based on the growth of personal consumption, which means the return of consumer confidence across the EU is another important investment. The unemployment rate was created at EU level in 2009 by 5 million new jobs and I think it is good and useful for all of us in Croatia, which is that the European Central Bank proposes to continue with the existing monetary policy, it will mean some time quite low interest, although in Croatia they are not so low, but they are significantly lower than before. Unfortunately, Croatia needed something more than most EU countries, to get out of the crisis and recession, we only experienced this a year ago, but today Croatia finally has strong economic growth, employment growth, we congratulate the government on cutting and deficits and falling public debt and exiting from the excessive deficit procedure, and in that sense I think we need to support all efforts and, of course, reforms that are just ahead of this government. As for this trade, as part of this point, the work of employment and competitiveness, I will not do much, since tomorrow morning we will discuss CETI, give a comprehensive agreement to the economic and investment between the EU and Canada, but I will say a few sentences. So there are some colleagues who are against CATE, but against this agreement can only be those who are united against Croatia's EU membership. In view of the size of the Canadian market and the population, for those who do not know 35 million people in Canada versus 500 million now minus 65 million inhabitants of Great Britain soon and 10 times less GDP, I think it is hard to say that this could endanger any economic interest, to suffer what is expected of the agreement, as well as future agreements, which are with Mexico, Japan and the Asian Pacific region, we expect, investment growth, investment growth and the resulting benefit for all citizens, and then Croatian citizens of course. And as for the competition, I think we'll agree that the particularity that everyone's been talking about in the past seven, eight years, is not the constant detail that can be increased by running from the competition, but rather the opposite, which is to start competing. The third point is migration. It seems that the current situation is under control, first of all what our national interests are, the impression is that progress has been made, although actually, on so-called. The middle Mediterranean route does not reduce the pressure of refugees, unfortunately it is still noted that those who have fled the war on affected areas and the whole family are killed in the Mediterranean. On the other hand, as mentioned by our national interest support to both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission in an effort to make so-called. The eastern Mediterranean, i.e. the western Balkan migration route, is kept closed. In addition, support for the reform of the common and European asylum system and strengthening the common Asian policy as well as solidarity between Member States. However, there is a need to say quite clearly here, and this is the principle of primary solidarity and accountability. It seems that it remains far from agreeing and understanding all EU members. This is to some extent understandable, given the very different and political and economic circumstances as well as national mentality within the EU. I'd like to mention, I've said that here before, internal migration. That is relatively rare, however, I personally think it is one of the biggest challenges facing the EU in years ahead. So, I think of the movement of workers of course, in this case our national interest is to keep Croatian people in Croatia, it is often said, what is less said and it is a struggle for talent. So the number is large, those who have entered, come out of Croatia should try to bring them all back in time. Today we are already witnessing that in Croatia we actually lack people for many jobs, in the future this case is going to be bigger and bigger, but within that overall effort, I think we need a particularly Croatian government on gifted young people and on talents, but also the European Commission. So, personally whenever I am able to talk to representatives of the European Commission in Zagreb or somewhere outside Zagreb, I try to open the issue, because it must be a common issue, the issue of fighting for talents is actually a question of all the issues in the 21st century, there is no longer a question of fighting for money, a possible struggle for private resources, but actually the key resource of the 21st century are people particularly young and talented. And that is why we expect the European Commission to respond to what we can do jointly, that the centrifugal force in some very successful and advanced EU Member States does not, in fact, tolerate and withdraw all talents from these border areas. The fourth item is the Paris Climate Agreement. Here we can only express regret, which the President of the United States, Mr Trump, has decided to step out of the agreement and we can support the European Commission in the fight against climate change and in this case, I mean opportunities, good opportunities to take over the role of a global leader in the fight against climate change. I hope that around this point we will easily agree that everyone here in the Parliament and should not elaborate excessively on this importance for Croatia, for Croatia's economy, Croatia's future precisely the issue of climate, climate change and environmental protection. The 5th point of digital Europe, it is progressing, unfortunately very unbalanced and unbalanced across the EU, but what needs to be underlined is that digitalisation in the 21st century is certainly in direct correlation and this confirms all statistics, which is economic growth, accelerated economic growth, the competitiveness of national economies is directly in correlation and is proportional to exactly the digitalisation process. The measure mentioned Estonia, which takes over the EU presidency during the day, has announced exactly digital Europe as one of its priorities, which is quite logical, given that one of the leading ones is in digitisation, although the small Baltic state does indeed record significant economic growth, although they are there at the very beginning in 2008 and 2009. the global economic crisis was severely hit by an upcoming recession. I believe that precisely our journeys, there will be many colleagues, I will be one of those who will go over the next 6 months in Estonia, Tallinn, so have the opportunity to talk to Estonian colleagues about this digitisation and what we can speed up, which we can do better, faster and of course avoid any mistakes that many have made. In the process of digitization, here you would mention one topic, which is rarely mentioned at European level, which is Uber. Uber is just one of the most famous technology platforms, often in Croatian media, often in all European media as a company. We all know what they're talking about, but the company only collects what comes into the future, so such technology platforms when it's not just about transport. There'll be more and more of them. That is why I think it would be good for the European Commission and the whole of the Union to deal with such platforms and not to let individual Member States come up with individual solutions, and then they are different, and therefore they are conflicting, aware of what brings a very, very close future. Technological progress is unremembered, I think it is amazing that... the Commission and the EU should jointly find solutions to all such challenges in a positive way. And the sixth point of external relations, here I would like to highlight only two topics briefly. The first is Brexit, Brexit is going to happen, it's quite certain, and by its chance it's going to be a much harder and much more complicated process than it was supposed to be, I mean especially for Great Britain at the end of the day. We agree that Member States should perform all 27, uniquely, and we, of course, are looking for a position for Croatian citizens as well as for all other EU citizens. If you don't know, we're talking about 4.5 million people, 4.5 million EU citizens. Of that, a little more than a quarter, if I remember correctly, of those British people living in the territory of the continent of Europe, and a little less than three-quarters so three-and-a-half million inhabitants of those living in the territory of the EU continent in the United Kingdom. So we're talking about 4.5 million families. And point 2, the HDZ club believes the deal on the solution to the border traffic problem between Croatia and Slovenia is satisfactory. So as we know the solution are targeted passenger controls after waiting at the border between Croatia and Slovenia for more than 15 minutes. A very useful fact is Croatia's entry into the Schengen Information System yesterday, it will certainly bring us closer not only to information, so from yesterday we have all our services police have access to all information, but it will bring us closer to entering the Schengen area as soon as possible, which is certainly Croatian national interest. Here, I finally thank you and the HDZ Club accepts the report and invite all colleagues, regardless of the party they belong to to support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42336	I thank my colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Next debate of the SDSS Representatives Club and distinguished counterpart Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42337	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is extremely important that the practice continues to be carried out after the Council meetings so that representatives in the Croatian Parliament can receive direct information on the discussions, not only on topics, but on dilemmas, views, disputes, and particularly on how our Government, in this case, the Prime Minister, participated, represented the interests of the Republic of Croatia, or expressed views when due to the interests of the EU itself. And I think that practice should continue and give her as much attention as possible. It should not be any less than it was at a time when we negotiated with the EU and when we had high expectations from the EU. And it would actually be bad if today, after a few years of membership, our attention as a representative should drop, when reports from such important meetings as Council meetings are due. I'm saying this because it wasn't just fatigue in the EU, it was fatigue, and we were also interested in what is being decided, what is being decided and what is being decided within the EU body. I will choose the following topics for this debate on behalf of the SDSS club, the first topic is the fact that the wave of political populism is specifically related to the right, not only to the sovereign, but also to the ultraconservative and nationalist policies, and to a large extent to anti-European policies. After the elections in certain European countries such as Austria, in particular France was significantly excruciating and some sense that it was defeated. But I would also like to say, and I believe that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is certainly aware of this and as members of the Council that this matter is not ultimately won as a battle and that the potentials especially in some countries that inspire their ultraconservative views of individual policies within the EU and their anti-European views have not gone from the scene or will leave the scene so easily. The problem of solidarity within the EU, the problem of equality not only of a member of the Union, but above all of the citizens within the EU generates or favours that kind of attitude or that kind of policy, which, of course, preys on people's interests and promises something that we know because we have our own experience, are not real promises, nor are real solutions. But this is an important thing for the stabilisation of the EU that came after one period of its own expansion, its own growth, first with a financial crisis, the second with a migrant crisis, the third with serious gaps within the geopolitical external spectrum that the EU has not put in a situation that it has not been in so far. Neither in relation to relations with the United States nor in relation to relations with the Russian Federation nor in relation to relations with the People's Republic of China. And therefore, especially the subject of EU defence and foreign policy for all its members, as well as for the Republic of Croatia and the EU as a whole, is probably one of the most serious, challenging topics the Council is dealing with, members of the Council, the European Parliament is dealing with, and this depends entirely on the question that answers and what EU solutions can and should have on this kind of challenge. So the EU, especially during the enlargement policy period, which went on a wave of optimism, which went on a wave of good solutions, after the crises it faced, is now facing a serious break in external geopolitical circumstances that certainly require serious answers and serious questions. In this regard, the issue of migrants as one of the products of such disorders, the break-up in geopolitical circumstances, has affected Europe more than any other segment of the world other than the countries from which migrants originate. And it should be said that the Republic of Croatia, as well as some other countries in our neighbourhood, which were on the path of migrants, did their job in a way that, on the one hand, was a significant contribution to the European stability. That, by any chance, the type of policy that some countries have taken up and in our region, with us or in our neighbourhood, it is quite certain that then the internal difficulties in the EU would have increased multiplely in political relations but also in relations between EU members themselves. Because of this, as was the case with populism and populist policies, the problem of the migrant crisis was also exasperated, but it was not resolved and it was absolutely certain that it should continue to pay attention to it as largely as it was during the most serious and significant problems when it appeared. The third thing I want to talk about, which is of particular interest to us, is the issue of continuing enlargement policy. The enlargement policy, of course to BiH, to Montenegro and Serbia, to Albania, to Macedonia, to our immediate neighbourhood and to the wider area of Southeast Europe on which the stability of the environment in which our country is located, in which our serious economic interests, in which we are serious if we want national interests, this topic and these issues should be at a slightly greater level of attention and focus than they are. If this issue remains that the budgetary debates for the next budgetary period within the EU do not foresee much for the enlargement policy, then it is something that does not correspond to our declared policy, our government's policy and there is no doubt that in this respect we should do everything to strengthen our contribution to making other members, as we have done in some circumstances, that other members better understand what consequences can produce delay or delay or putting in place not to wait for the accession process of our immediate neighbourhood countries, given already mentioned increasingly complex and increasingly active global external-political activity both in our neighbourhood and in our region. I am convinced that by representing our country's interests, this segment, an important segment of our interests, as of course, as some others have been concerned, were being exposed to the prime minister himself, either by fellow Domagoj Milosevic. Finally, we highly appreciate the fact that the prime minister pays great attention to the reports and to his role and role as our Government in the European Council. And I am sure that continued and persistent work on this will, in fact, be of more public interest to us but also to the general public than it is right now because it is actually happening within European institutions. But there's one topic that I think would be, and I hope the Prime Minister doesn't mind me opening it here and I could open it elsewhere, but I think it's important. I think it is extremely important that we, our government after two or three years of political instability or the instability that we have been through with our political life, with our governments, now that we are in and out of the political stability period, pay particular attention to two things. One prime minister is already paying attention, which is the situation and construction of Croatia's place in European institutions. Along with the other actors. From the European Parliament to those who are in the commission and to the activities in different bodies of the Commission either, of course, the Council. But it is of paramount importance that the political position and political interest of the Republic of Croatia, the political view of the Republic of Croatia, especially in such issues as the enlargement policy and the policy of relations in the neighbourhood get as much noticeable and more significant a role as the Republic of Croatia can play because this is added value, the added capital that we as a country have. And the other thing is the question of the usability of our financial envelope by 2020. Understandably, because of the instability we had, that usability couldn't have been much higher than it was when we started to use it. But now in these remaining three years, it's quite certain of one of the greatest imperatives for us as representatives, for the government, because it can restore citizens' trust. He can say yes, that's why it made sense to negotiate, that's why it made sense to send people to European institutions, which makes sense to listen to the reports the prime minister submits. And especially in some ministries. Such as environmental protection, such as agriculture, where the funds are extremely large. If our share in these funds counts for this, it is a huge imperative for us and it would be extremely significant if Mr. Prime Minister at some point, after talking to members of the government, you could find ways to present to citizens how to intensify, strengthen, strengthen the mechanisms of using these funds and stimulate units of local self-government, municipalities of cities, counties and associations in civil society as well as various other actors within our society. If it were some kind of new point of consensus that we had until the entry into the EU, and with those who are not part of the ruling coalition but certainly would, because the mayors come from different parties, the mayors come from different parties, and they are interested in making the funds as much usability as possible. In the end, the SDSS Representatives' Club will support the report the prime minister submitted to the parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42338	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milorad Pupovac, for this debate. We have two replicas, the first to appear for the replica is Honorable colleague Miro Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Pupovac, I've been happy to listen to your exposure, I like what you're saying... You know, Mr. Popper wrote about it and referred to Kanta. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The usefulness in life from the moves we want in life and what we write books to be read. But I'm reporting because of pulsism. You are talking about populistism and we agree that it is edifying but it has always existed and it is stronger when the political parties that have been established, such as us, HDZ but also a colleague from the SDP, the big parties, when they lose contact with reality. When they're not close to the regiment, then stronger pulsism. That's it. policy against the establishment, against the institutions. Not just in Croatia and elsewhere. We're somewhat immune here, to these phenomena because we're quite close to the regiment. We get the wishes of the regiment and we run a policy like that. There is one example in Western Europe, one big party that also acts, that is CSU in Bavaria, which does not allow to appear right from CSU, a strong party. That would put the CSU at risk. And as for the EU, it is strong, it is very attractive again today, these centrifugal forces are weaker and we see that in some act and the departure of Great Britain but also the US policy, we in the EU, homogenize. We'll cooperate a little harder on the defense plan now. According to this, the crisis of populistism has always been, let's remember in the 1990s, when we had a right-wing right in Germany because of refugees from the former Yugoslavia, Croatia and BiH, later Serbia, the SR Yugoslavia, and that too, if the big parties run serious politics and listeners, there are voters and peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42340	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42341	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Kovac, populistism is an inevitable instrument of politics. But the moment it becomes all politics and still becomes a function of ideas that can be devastating in policy making, in particular the EU's common policy, in particular policies that would preserve the degree of EU integration, or EU member states, then, of course, it becomes a dangerous situation. Europe has indeed been in a dangerous state, until the moment of individual elections of EU member states. And today, after the elections held in certain countries, it is clear that the democratic capacity of these countries has shown that it can deal with such challenges. It is a shame, but we will not name it, and we will not particularly comment on what some other countries could have been and for a time were the third pillar, the third factor of EU stability in all of their segments from the old member states to the new members that we still haven't found enough democratic capacity to stabilise the EU in this regard until the end. You're right. Exhaust the politics of certain kinds of policies give way to it. Serious crises encountered in the EU such as inequality, such as migrants, further favour the emergence of such policies. But that is an additional reason for the debate within the Union itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42342	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Pupovac. We have another replica, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42343	Dear colleague Pupovac, I'm glad you touched the financial envelopes. She, we in Croatia, can't just have expectations of this financial envelope. Because as far as she's going to be realized, it's up to us alone. I asked one question here in the third month and later addressed the Prime Minister because we have 13000 apartments in multi-story buildings in Croatia where there is the possibility of installing elevators with 80 per cent EU funding. It's a project of nearly 4 billion kuna with around 3,000 people hiring and then another 200 people maintaining these elevators, or elevators. They are a substitute for what is a great demand for retirement homes, so they ensure the mobility of elderly, disabled people that they can live as well on the fifth or fourth floor as they can on the ground floor with a possible ramp. I haven't received any more answers, so I'm going to ask the Prime Minister to take a look at that memo that was sent to him. Secondly, you mentioned at least one dozen times the idea of the EU. And that would be all great if the EU were the Union of Nations, not the Union of States. But when we look at elementary mathematics even it's not the Union, it's a group of states by theory of mathematics gatherings. Because we have lots of states that even refugees want to go to and won't go to. We have gatherings of countries that have euro and those that don't. We have meetings of states that have Schengen and those that don't. So, I just want to make sure we don't have the wrong picture of the EU. It is a long way to the EU that should be the Union of Peoples.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42344	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. And the answer, dear colleague Pupovci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Hrelja, as far as the EU funds are concerned, I am not a member of the government, I have no operational experience, so I cannot take the risk of creating a proposal on how best this could be done. But I will withdraw one parallel with negotiations with the EU, so that during the negotiations with the EU on certain chapters, for example, public procurement or fundamental rights, we did not have a literal campaign in the handling of certain ministries, we would not end the negotiations within which we ended. So it seems to me that this thing should also be accessed by a co-ordinated action or by a specially designed plan of activity about which I, perhaps, exists without me knowing about it. But if there is one, it would be good to hear how it is realized, if it doesn't exist, it would be necessary to develop. As far as the EU is concerned, we all know that the EU may not be, perhaps the term meetings are not the best in logical or mathematical terms of the word. But circles that, that there are first-row circles, second-row circles and third-row circles, we know that. And when we talk about it both in the decision-making and decision-making system and when we talk about the situation of the Republic within the EU, then we think that by creating a partnership, by creating an alliance of the Republic with its interests, with its views, with its needs, it imposes itself in a way that can be imposed in view of these circumstances, looking for partnerships and at the same time building, confirming the old and creating new partnerships necessary to strengthen its own participation in this as small countries and as a country that itself certainly cannot have as much influence as it would need.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42346	I thank my esteemed colleague Pupovac for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, distinguished colleague Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42347	I would like to thank the Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In fact, for a very short time only a couple, let us, on behalf of the club, only a few information or information from the report, comment first and foremost on security and defence. An absolutely up-to-date theme of the Schengen acquis, which is here as we see it, and our prime minister adopted this amendment, i.e. an amendment was included in the final version of the issue of not fully applying Schengen acquis to countries located at the external borders. In this context and later on, the topic of migration is absolutely being expressed, given that we are on the Balkan route and are practically the first to strike, as we had seen in previous years, that is, not so long ago. As for employment growth itself and competitiveness, it is absolutely here as the positive trends of economic growth, and not only in Croatia, which we have seen in the past few years, but 16 consecutive quarters in the EU, which is behind it, pulls together, indicators of the unemployment rate for them 2009. And what is certainly commendable, where Croatia is mentioned together with Portugal, as regards exiting the excessive deficit procedure. Essentially, as regards Articles 50 and UK's exit to the EU, it is certainly for us to support the absolute position on worker mobility, as regards the UK, to monitor the same conditions as at the beginning of the EU, or EU member states. What is also mentioned here, and what is extremely important, especially for us in Croatia during the tourist season, is that meeting which is listed here was held by the Prime Minister, on the sidelines of the meeting with the President of the European Council and the President of the Government of Slovenia, related to the procedure, verification, systematic checks of all travellers at the borders. So, we have the unkind events and this now automatically, which we entered the Schengen Information System on June 27th, so that we can do what's agreed to, in fact, that the civil control system to move on to the civilian control system, when waiting is longer than 15 minutes, I think it's one of the more important things to point out as far as this report itself is concerned. And finally, as for the article as well. 50 of what I have already mentioned in the Replica, one of the great opportunities, which have, of course, been recognized and others, as far as I have seen 21 EU members, is the headquarters, so 2 agencies which, banking agencies and European Medicines Agency, have been in London, which are now looking for their new headquarters and absolutely there, we support the government with our efforts and in the group, and in all possible lobbying to obtain the headquarters of such an agency. We know that this not only brings direct economic benefits, as regards the constantly employed people, their salaries, their families, as regards the annual, 36,000 visitors located outside of pension spending and all that it carries with it. This brings benefits and in the development of the pharmaceutical industry itself, you know we have a long tradition, and also universities and everything that goes with it. In that part, it certainly needs to go to several fronts, of course, as high quality the procedure itself, the better the conditions that are mentioned here, and there are 6 important criteria, according to which, or 5 to be assigned, this seat, to go of course lobbying, as basic both towards the Commission and through the European Parliament and through other possibly non-candidated members, but also through certain lobbying groups, pharmaceutical lobbies, who certainly have their own interest, which are certainly the biggest users of this agency. The agency's budget of over 300m euros, as I mentioned, brings direct benefits to the budget of around 10m euros annually. Thus, it is a great opportunity for us to draw attention to, and I think we should do everything maximum, of course, that these criteria are difficult to meet not the country like Croatia, but also others, but the EU members, who are many years long, but we certainly need to do our best. The Final Club of the Croatian People's Party accepts this report. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42348	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Churay, for this debate. We move on to the next debate, the individual, distinguished colleague Miro Bulj. He's not present. He's losing his right to debate. The following has appeared for an individual debate, a distinguished colleague, Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42349	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I'd like to ask, I have in my hands a report on a meeting of the European Council that we've received from all the representatives in our hands. He writes this kind of external relations, in the context of an extension of the sanctions by 6 months, the Russian Federation, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron, presented the state of implementation of the mine agreement. It has been concluded that there is no need to change the situation, because there are no actual results, and some of the elements of the deterioration are visible. In other words, at the meeting, it was decided to proceed with Russia's sanctions policy. With the policy our country is suffering from, meaning, from sanctions to Russia, Croatia has no use at all, I do not know my European country actually benefits from these sanctions and I do not see their meaning. If anyone thinks Russia will return Crimea to Ukraine for those sanctions, he's wrong. So there continues to be a devastating policy, and our diameter, which unfortunately is not here now, he offers Ukraine some solutions, like America has no solution for the Ukrainian crisis, but our Prime Minister Plenkovic, he has solutions and some sort of... The integration he proposes, etc., and the whole world is laughing at him and thinking to themselves, what this man is talking about, because they know it's utopia, that it's never going to happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, I say destructive foreign policy, the servant continues. It continues, this unfortunate liberalisation continues, a missed exchange rate policy continues, a failed tax policy continues. But first of all, I would like to look back on one topic that gathers the Croatian public and which politicians who represent the elite often mention, and it is called populism. I say pulsism for a reason because I would like to ask my colleagues from HDZ, did the pulsism of one election go with the parole without new taxes, not real estate taxes, and then after other choices introduce real estate taxes? Are we going to give away a thousand euros for every child and then not give? Is populism when President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic says Croatia will be one of the most developed countries in Europe and the world, and thanks to the policy we have implemented, we have fallen to the only European bottom and now Bulgaria is only behind us. So even in Romania, there is better living than in Croatia. Is populism saying that it will stop the escape of young people from the country, and do nothing about it? Is it populism to say that the number of unemployed has decreased, if it is known to be solely the result of eviction? Is it populism to tell the citizens of our country that we will sit together in the EU at the table and co-determine when it is known that we are not deciding anything? Is it populism to say that we are an equal member of NATO and that we will not be marginalized in the world if our president pushes as close as possible to Donald Trump? Dear ladies and gentlemen, was the populism when Radimir Cacic went to the polls and said he was going to open 200 thousand new jobs? Is the populationism when Prime Minister Plenkovic said before the elections that he would stop the execution of the only home, and after the election, daily actions continue on which they bear witness all the time? Dear and ladies and gentlemen, what they do to political elites is the worst possible pulsism that can be seen. Not only because people are promised spectacular results with continued implementation of the missed policy but also primarily because there are victims of this populism. So unemployed people who vote for HDZ and SDP because they promise new jobs will remain unemployed. The people who are waiting for the raid, who gave a vote for HDZ because they heard Prime Minister Plenkovic say he would protect the only real estate from the performance, these people are also victims of pulsism. There are many ladies and gentlemen of the victims of pulsism. After all, ladies and gentlemen, your populism makes him very toxic to society, people get hurt. There's no work. Is it like pulsism to say that you're going to help blocked people, is that pulsism? Is populism when HDZ goes to elections with a party blocked by saying that they care about blocked ones, and the number is blocked and their total numbers are growing. And that's populism. But what? No journalist, no medium, no one dares touch the subject of voter fraud. When it comes to populism, it doesn't attack HDZ because it says it's going to stop the performance over the only real estate, and it won't, but it's not attacking us who really think it. It's not an attack on HDZ populism that said it wasn't going to introduce a real estate tax, so it introduced it, but it's about pulsism attacking us from the Living Wall that we're against real estate tax. Actually, what's this about? Only politicians who are honest, who are credible, who do what they say are called for pulsism. And those politicians who lie and deceive voters, those who promise one thing, do another, and think third, they are not called populism. And ask yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, why there's been a protest party and if we're grandmothers of horns all over the story we're pointing to problems and we're talking about concrete solutions. You're going to say, no, you're not talking about what concrete solutions are. So here's your monetary reform, let the National Bank Act be amended in a way that the state can directly finance from the CNB, not that it has to borrow credit from foreign banks. Let the Law on Mandatory Relations be amended and let the currency clause be abolished on loans, these are concrete measures that are not populism. Get out of the NATO Pact and stop participating in these crimes. Well, that's the same populism for you. In most cases, any concrete proposal such as Stop the delicacies to stop this suffering of people, you say it's pulsism. And when you go to the election of ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, then you promise people that the only real estate will be protected from the commission, that the real estate tax will not be. And in the end, I don't know if you remember gentlemen from HDZ all your speeches for years when you spoke against the introduction of real estate taxes, you said it was a harrassor, a blow not to count, one after the other, even Minister Maric from the government, not the other one who spoke against the real estate tax, and now you're introducing him. And watch this for all that means all this hypocrisy, the demagogue that's your program, you go to the election with which parole? It's credible. Well, it's not cynicism, it's the height of cynicism. The only thing you're worthy of is the unbelief, not the execution of election promises, the fraud of voters, and in fact the consequence of that is the disappearance of our people, but the most responsible for it are not you gentlemen from HDZ, but the people whose brains are washed out, who support you and these other parties in the Assembly, who only care about themselves, who don't care about what people eat in the soup kitchen, which are blocked, which is not going to get their pension allowance from Christmas, resurrection and regression because they're blocked, which doesn't care that the Retirers of the Royal Pension Insurance that they've invested in this end won't get their retirement allowance, etc.... You're not worried about anything, you're only looking at yourself and your pockets and your families and your party friends and you forgot Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42350	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Miro Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42351	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I'll be very brief, I'll try to be concise. We really appreciate that the Prime Minister comes regularly to the Croatian Parliament to inform the representatives about what was being agreed at the European Council meetings. I am very sorry, too, that, in addition to the distinguished colleague Sabina Glasovac and Mr Jovanovic, colleagues, there are no more colleagues from the SDP who might also be a young lady, I apologize, who could participate in this debate and have a colleague in the SDP, a colleague who knows a lot in the EU because they were also participants, i.e. They held important duties in the state government as well as in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is indeed one call, filled with altruism, it would be good to hear from you what your comments are, which are your proposals when it comes to the EU, its policies and their policies have a crucial impact on Croatia's reality and on the reality of all EU member states. So, I would really be happy and happy and happier if the next time the Prime Minister came, he could be more co-workers. This isn't some malicious criticism right now. It's a well-intentioned call, I repeat, filled with altruism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42352	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for this debate. We have one replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42353	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since this is the second time in half an hour to sort of apostrophe the fact that some of the colleagues who, according to your HDZ colleagues, would have anything to say about this topic are not in this assembly. I will now take advantage of the opportunity and I will make one comment on the process of sending this document to the Croatian Parliament. So this document has arrived at the benches of parliamentary deputies in the morning seems to me around 10 o'clock. He's not a bit of a Benigan, he's got about 30 pages, it's serious pages. I'm not saying that our colleagues wouldn't have anything to say about this subject and without reading the proposed document but let me, let me draw attention to the fact that it still takes this serious thing to prepare and take time to read it. And I think you should avoid this practice. And I appreciate the fact that the President of the Croatian Government is here in the Croatian Parliament and is reporting to us all on all activities related to the EU and its institutions. But here I would ask that things like this no longer be repeated that the papers come to representatives on the bench at 10 o'clock and they're being discussed at 3 p.m. What's next? To discuss them two hours later. You may not be satisfied with this explanation, why colleagues do not discuss this but consider it as a kind of protest, because of the way they work and the way they treat MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42354	I thank my dear colleague Sabina the Voice. The answer of the esteemed colleague Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42355	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, I am pleased that I have in some way encouraged you to the replica, that you have said your opinion, that this has given us another richer debate in the Croatian Parliament on key EU topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42356	I thank my esteemed colleague Kovac for his reply. We're moving on to a debate. Final word on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42357	Here, try to imagine the time that we all have as one hourglass. So each of us is every day, every minute, every second one day closer to death, we'll all be gone eventually. I may be behind you but only for age, for no other reason because I'm younger and older will go sooner. However, that hourglass has our country as well. So we see that the demographic and economic processes that are in our country are actually such that our country is ticking time. So the hourglass is turned around and we have a little more time to reverse the trends. We have a little more time to stop the evictions, stop the demographic breakdown, actually save the country. Time's running out. And if we don't do anything to stop that hourglass we're running, it's just gonna get to the inevitable. And that's like I said just before the disappearance of the Croatian people from the Croatian state. There are already more of us out of Croatia than there are in Croatia. And eventually the villages are empty, even in cities the number of inhabitants falls. Here's a shocking piece of information. The river loses its inhabitants, for example. And the simple question is, what will remain in the future and what are we doing to make it better? And the answer is that we in the House do one big nothing, that we don't really change anything, that we just turn from hollow to empty, talk about things that don't matter, and we don't talk about the crucial things. And then you'll say okay, Mr. Pernar, what's the crucial thing by you? Well, the CNB theme, I tell you all the time. CNB exchange office, CNB exchange office. So you are aware of what it means, that every kuna is in circulation external debt. That without external borrowing, we don't have money in the country, that we have Kunian money. And if all that foreign debt we're taking, we have to pay back, increase by the amount of interest, and we've only got the principal loans. And all the money is external debt. And how it'll come back, no way. The debt of the state is growing, loans are returning by taking new loans. And I'm glad Mr. Shucker's here today. There's a song where they put his voice where he says it's not a new loan, it's some union credit that actually serves to close an old loan, etc. But what? With this credit return policy, taking new loans actually increases the total debt. Now Mr. Shuker says it is not growing, but if you see annual commitments coming to Croatia on loan payments, each year credit must be paid more and more. Of course, there's a conflict of reason and emotion. Emotions, HDZ members tell us that debt does not grow, emotions say that GDP is growing, emotions that people on the labour market have never been less, emotions say that in Croatia live better, and you know what I remember about HDZ gentlemen? I remember the election when the SDP was in power. A man comes home, a woman has a belly to tooth and a man comes in a work suit, a working suit, the blue one, no. And he asks the woman, the woman who is for lunch, she says peas, and he says peas again. Beans again. And mostly, the point of that video was if you voted for HDZ you'd live well and the question was whether you believed those videos, and then it was that HDZ video where Ivo Sanader was the star in the video, where one for one man asked if you believed this man? He says, Grandpa, do you trust this man? Grandpa says, I believe. Then they ask another man, he says Yeah, thank you, I'm sorry, I got carried away. [[Upadica Brkić: Dear colleague Pernar, your time is up.]] Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42358	Thank you very much. Please, colleagues, final word, distinguished Croatian Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42359	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I thank you for the debate we had on the conclusions of the European Council held last week, Thursday and Friday, in the summary of our debate here are several comments and several methodological remarks. My colleague, Glasovac, said that the document came to the benches of the MPs only today, my urgency is to be up-to-date, so if the Council took place last week to discuss it while this information is relatively fresh, although today something that was so fresh last Thursday and Friday doesn't seem so fresh, personally, I don't see any reason to discuss it, let's say on the last day in accordance with the constitutional time period of the Parliament's meeting, for example, on July 14th. I think we need to be quick, it's a practice we've established in the last few months, this is already the sixth Council since I've had the honour of being Prime Minister and I believe it's still better to do it faster, otherwise these conclusions have been published on the Internet already in the early afternoon on Friday, so what's new is a new report that has, of course, pointed out, those aspects of the conclusions that are particularly relevant to Croatia and contextualized them to other our priorities whether they are economic, security character, migration, Schengen etc. That's one thing. The second is, of course, that these discussions are an opportunity for broader focus on foreign policy issues, European topics, social issues, whether or not pulsism, but what is good, if we had established this practice, here this is, in some way, in these two semesters as far as this practice applies, I would not say a useful exercise, but a useful exchange of views. However, this way, as time becomes almost sensitized not only by representatives but also by the Croatian public for these topics in a more concrete way. What's obviously most important and most important and that's how we use the funds that we're being valocated in this financial perspective, what is the absorption of the funds, how many projects are being implemented. So, we are making sure that in the closed part of the government session, there are points that are interlinked and all have European omens, the first is that we are going with the transposition of fresh, new European legislation, so EU acquis, according to the quarter and plan of normative activities. The second is that the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds reports, reminds, points out, warns all resolutions on the dynamics of the withdrawal of funds in this financial perspective, every two weeks, thoroughly reporting. The third is the activities aimed at the national reform programme, the convergence plan, so Croatia works once a year, it is well accepted by the European Commission, its implementation among other things and helped us to get out of the excessive budget deficit procedure, it is part of the European semester, the annual growth plan at EU level, all of which are interrelated processes and activities. And that is why it is important that in the Croatian public, there is awareness in the Croatian Parliament about these framework documents and the interrelated actions of the Government and other resolutions. I would like to suggest that the president of the Committee on European Affairs considers it opportunised to invite the Minister for Regional Development and European Funds to a special session where it would present to the representatives a very detailed and thorough state of implementation to see where further steps must be made and at central government level, but also at the level of the county, at the level of cities, at the level of other partners in the implementation of the projects. In this sense, I would like to announce that we will be in Požega on Monday where there will be a second meeting of the entire government of the Republic of Croatia with all the newly elected mayors, presidents of the associations of cities, presidents of the associations of municipalities with the president of the Assembly Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government where we will see together what are concrete topics at this time important for the implementation of the Regional Development Strategy adopted at last week's meeting of the Government and what aspects are important for fiscal decentralisation and a new legislative package relating to regional and local self-government units, while we will receive one feedback on budget planning for 2018 of our mayors, from representatives close to our people across Croatia. So that's one comprehensive approach, and that's why this debate I knew was going to take place and when we started with this initiative it would be much wider than these few pages of conclusions or our comments, and that's good. And I am trying as much as possible to expose myself to this public debate, the debate in the Croatian Parliament, the possibility of exchange of views on whether we will be able to animate a sufficient number of MPs. The results are currently half-life. However, as time goes on, I expect greater engagement and perhaps the making of that fine distinction between daily-political, sometimes little and political points. And indeed subjective debates about what is relevant for Croatia, which is relevant for all our citizens and what is relevant in the finality for the important topics of the European project. Because all that comes at the end of the European Council every two or three months, all of this has passed before both working groups and ambassadors, or foreign representatives and ministerial councils, and what really matters is at the top. And that's why if we saw the whole of the position that the government has adopted, for example, in these eight months for individual councils, then those pages that we talked about earlier would be much, much more than just a few important documents that we talked about today. And I will endure the entire government in this particular activity. I think it is usefully good, and if it becomes a practice, you will see that we will all feel more directly and perhaps more timelyly involved and identify ourselves with decisions made by European institutions. That's the whole point. So, the fact that someone represents Croatia as part of the Council as Mr Mimica is in the Commission, which is 11 representatives in the European Parliament, is not much of a guest job. It is a job in the house, only taking place physically in institutions where other Member States participate. And this process of identification, here 4 years after membership I think we need to further strengthen and make the Croatian public all of these topics much closer than it is today. I thank you and we will try to make these foreign-political debates, and I suppose it is a mature time for us to organise a plenary debate next week on Croatia's and Bosnia and Herzegovina's relations as one of our key foreign-political issues and important for the rights of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as an equal constituent nation at the initiative of several clubs and several foreign-political committees, following a joint session of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will be held in Sarajevo next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42360	I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andre Plenkovic. We have a few replicas. The first one was answered by a distinguished colleague, Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42361	It's not a replica, but it's an expression of the same attitude that I also believe and all the MPs here understand the need for why we should work quickly and expediently. But then I ask you, here's the Prime Minister on this trail that I've talked about before, that you're not waiting from, so the government's sessions, or from Friday to Wednesday, to give us the material, but also to be expedient in that part, and that if they were already posted on the Internet on Friday, I don't know why it's only been five days actually for them to come to the assembly benches. Let the procedure speed up a little bit. You're welcome here, of course, but it would also be nice to know the day before you get here, so we can get ready to get the materials. This morning we found out in fact that this will be discussed this afternoon and received the materials themselves. I think it'll be a mutual pleasure. If you're more expedient, then we as MPs will have more understanding and we'll be expedient too. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42362	I thank my dear colleague Sabina the Voice. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42363	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. Here I am using this replica as an opportunity while you're here to ask you a question. It is related to an agreement, an economic and trade agreement that, according to information, will tomorrow be on the agenda of the Canada-EU Parliament. A colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, spoke affirmably of the agreement on behalf of the HDZ club. He even said that all those who oppose the agreement are in fact against the EU in some way if I understand it correctly. What I really want to ask you, and I'm not that optimistic and I share concerns about what Croatia is, let's take an example of agriculture. Croatia's agricultural economies are small and fragmented. The average size of the economy is 2.4 hectares. In Canada, it's over 300 acres. The Canadian farm has such an average. The incompetence of the agricultural food sector in the Republic of Croatia, and in particular the production of milk and meat, is already evident. This is seen by the amount of food from imports that we are actually importing into the Republic of Croatia. So this is about vulnerable production. And in fact, my question is whether there is such a danger for the Republic of Canada, that this still lack of exports in relation to imports, especially agricultural products, is increased by this agreement, and especially because, according to information in Canada, some chemical assets and agricultural procedures are allowed, and in the Republic of Croatia, there are prohibited procedures, even GMOs. Is there really such a danger? And it's important for tomorrow's debate, too, regarding that agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42364	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagaru, for the replica. Answer, Prime Minister Mr. Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42365	So-called CETA is not exactly the topic of today's debate, but let's say it is related to the subject of free trade and the numerous trade agreements the Union has concluded with third countries, this is one of the key types of international free trade contracts. A new generation that has been negotiated for a very long time, Canadian negotiators, not only negotiated with representatives of the commission that formally held talks on Member States, but all the Member States also came, including Croatia. The solutions found in this generation, these types of agreements, have been analysed in detail by all Member States, by all professional services, by the Commission, also taken care of GMOs, taken care of the quality of food, public health, all those key issues that were emancipated in discussions in a number of countries, when not only this contract, but also more, of course, and TTIP, given the volume of economic exchange, dominated by public space and rarely raised people on both feet and prose. However, what is the essence of this agreement is the solutions found in terms of disputes between investors and states are the most modern, best, quality protection and the state in which they are concerned and give legal certainty to investors in an appropriate manner. When it comes to the total trade in terms of agricultural products, such an agreement with the Croatian, Croatian economy can benefit Croatian agriculture, especially in the export sense of the wood processing industry. It's one of the areas where we can make a lot of profit from CETA. And as for the effects on Croatian agriculture itself, I don't see that greater danger, here's Secretary of State Busic, tomorrow will represent this law, so it can go on about it in more detail, but all the analyses I've seen haven't pointed to some kind of danger that you're abulating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42366	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic. And the last replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42367	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, I, as a representative of the opposition, have given you confidence in your government. Why? Because I've seen your job through these ten months that I liked and you're doing one good thing. I am pleased for the first time in 25 years that I have seen one government, one man on the way to solve the problems of this Croatian state. And so you have my trust, by continuing to follow, since I'm in opposition, if you don't work, I will certainly call on you all. And since you have now announced going to Sarajevo, so I ask you, you know, how many Croats were expelled from the BiH, especially from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from which I originate, which no one in 25 years tried, in one political, healthy way tried to return, nicely to build these homes and return home. We know everyone won't come back, it's clear to all of us, but let's help that people, who are really hurt, 138 thousand Croats have come out. I especially thank you for coming to the Parliament, for raising European issues and for thinking that Croatia is going in one good way and I hope that you will continue and that we will work together to the end and what else to say. Thank you for this trip, I see it that way, I'll give you support until it's, when it's different, you probably won't have my support, and I hope it'll be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42368	Thank you, dear fellow Music. Answer, dear colleague Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42369	We've got to be good to keep doing this the way we do, right? Dear Mišić, thank you for these suggestions, the fact is that we have a lot of open issues, financial, economic, social with international character, security and a lot of it has come to pass, we can say it freely on the agenda and the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But what is our responsibility is based on the programme, based on the mandate, the trust that we received from Croatian voters, to meet those expectations, even if it was more complex and demanding than it may have been before the 11 September parliamentary elections. I'm glad you recognize these efforts and appreciate what we're doing. We'll try, of course, for the entire government to be on that trail to be our activities in the future. When it comes to cooperation with the BIH, a series of open questions, which are on the table, the agenda that is now agreed, of course will touch this dimension. It is a question which is a kind of a painful point, for the status of Croats in the BiH, which is not only Croats from Posavina, but at all in one space of Republika Srpska's entity. We are also talking about this with the BiH authorities and representatives of Croatian political parties, who are often with Bishop Komarica, who is working hard to keep the topic alive, hold a continuous dialogue with representatives of the Croats from BiH, especially from Posavina, who are in different parts of Croatia and support from the Croatian Office outside Croatia, support from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the government's support is strong. Are we all satisfied with the results of our physical return? Of course not. But I expect both of you and our three colleagues who have been selected on the list in the election list for Croatians outside Croatia to come to the Croatian Parliament at some time to discuss it much more in detail and to create a consensusal broad political platform for further joint action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42370	I thank you for your response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, State Secretary to Mrs. Zdravki Busic for presenting this report. We'll vote on this item on the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42371	We are now going to vote on the debated points. The first report on the European Council meeting held on 22 and 23 June 2017 and on the meeting of the European Council in EU format 27, held in Brussels on 29 April. He is the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ, HNS, HDS, HSLS and HDSB, the Party of Labour and Solidarity Representatives, the Parties to the Intergenerational Solidarity of Croatia and the Reformists and Independent Representatives, I am voting on the following conclusion: Reports by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meeting held on 22 and 23 June 2017, and on a meeting of the European Council in EU format 27, held in Brussels on 29 April. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes with 104 votes in favour and 1 abstention and 11 against that report were accepted by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42372	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project "Modernisation and restructuring of the road sector", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 151. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The material was delivered to the boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Is it possible that the proposaler's representative would like to give an additional explanation? Here you are, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Tomislav Mihotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42373	Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed representatives. Following the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 6 April 2017, a report on the leading negotiations for the conclusion of a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project ‘Modernisation and restructuring of the road sector’ was signed on 8 May 2017. On the part of the Republic of Croatia, it was signed by Finance Minister Mr. Zdravko Maric, and by the IBRD by the World Bank's Regional Director for Operations in the EU. Following the above mentioned Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the draft Law on the establishment of a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This loan will ensure the implementation of the "Modernisation and restructuring of the road sector" project. increasing operational efficiency and increasing the debt capacity of road sector companies through institutional strengthening and sectoral reforms and operational restructuring of road sector companies. The draft law has been prepared to give all the necessary opinions of the resolution ministries, and given the nature of the procedure for confirming an international contract which also formally expresses the willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the amendments or addition of the text of the international contract are not proposed to be discussed and accepted by an urgent procedure. The amount of the total loan is 22m euros, the payment period is ten years, the start is four years, the interest rate is the six-month Euribor plus the fixed interest margin of 0.6, the loan processing fee is 0.25 as well as the fee for unused funds. That's basic data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42374	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr Tomislav Mihotic. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We move to discussions on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42375	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to briefly explain some of the reasons why the Most Club is going to support this law. The truth and he's going into an emergency procedure, and it's really an emergency procedure. I wish we'd had it before. So what's a big problem that burdens the Republic of Croatia is debt in the road sector. We have very good roads, of course we would have such roads it cost, so the debts are 43.136 billion kuna of which this year comes 8 billion 481 million kuna. What is important may not have been said by the secretary of state, there will be an opportunity to stress this, in addition to this 22m-euro loan, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development provides a guarantee worth 350m euros, which will then raise the credit capacity of these companies. And we don't have a lot of doubts about this, and I think this law should be supported. What we may have doubts, here's the debate will be brief so we may not get all the answers, but in the future it will show very quickly, and that's how this project is going to work, how it's going to work. First of all, it is about rationalising, optimising costs, specifically if these are maintenance costs, then the question arises, although the funds for 5m-euro severances are foreseen here. It's not even big money when we talk about more employees in these companies as much as if workers are going to be out of work because, will outsourcing be used, will some maintenance jobs that people now do in these companies do instead of someone else. And will that really ultimately lead to the cost of services? As far as I am concerned, I particularly support this classification and standardisation of roads because it is very important in relation to the Croatian roads, compared to the ZUCs. And I think that co-operation between ZUC and Croatian roads can be improved and we don't know how much this is covered by the project because we know that the ZUCs have big problems in their work. So it's important to cover it with the same project. As for the toll collection, I don't know why, why, the minister, I've heard more of it from the minister, talking about the wines, talking about, why this ENC that works in the Republic, why it doesn't propagate anymore, why don't we start with that? I don't know how many ENC users there are. I see when I travel the highway that crowds are on, so to put it on a regular bill, colleagues can be a few miles away. I personally have an ENC, pass in a minute. I don't know why it even has a discount on that ENC, why it's not exactly an acceptable solution. The truth is that we, like a country that lives on tourism, actually have to think about these summer periods. He thinks he's going now, if a 10% increase hasn't already taken effect, those funds aren't big, but they can be significant in terms of preserving jobs again. So our guess is that it's a good will, that there is, that the project will be good, after all, it will be the consulting services of people who are professional. And hopefully we'll succeed because this isn't, but this is going now here in the afternoon debate, this is an extremely important problem for the Republic of Croatia. And I'm coming, here and now I have to say, I come from Slavonia, I live in Nova Bukovica, it's at Slatina, it's 100km to my nearest highway. So what interests me alive is that as soon as these things are solved, that both the Croatian road and the Croatian road would have as much money as possible, so that this and the Podravi ipilon would work out and all of those roads, of course I'm not the only one who has problems, probably here colleagues in the assembly, colleagues and colleagues have these problems. And this is the way to start solving problems so we don't put them under the carpet. To conclude, the MOST Club will support this legislative proposal but we also expect things to start to happen in a positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42376	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar, for this debate. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42377	Thank you, Your Honor. The darkness is taking credit and I'm going to ask on this topic a question that essentially in the Parliament sets up never and that's next. In fact, you all know that every loan needs to be paid and interest. And there's a question of where to pay interest on that loan that we're gonna raise for highways if there's no money to pay off interest. And what's this about? In the current EU financial system, money is created exclusively as a loan. So in order for the money to be created, or put into circulation, someone has to take out a loan. In this case, the state has to borrow. But creditors, so all the money is created as a loan and creditors only give a major loan. And on all these major loans given to the state, the citizens and businesses must be paid interest and the interest money is never given, it's only the capital. It's like having you in the bank take 100,000 euros in credit, you have to pay back 200. Those other 100,000 euros were never created, the bank only gave you the principal. It wasn't just you and the rest of the society who gave the lead. And Agrokor gave credit to both Petrochemia Kutina and highways and railways and shipyards, giving all legal entities credit and citizens only. All money is credit. If no one had taken loans in circulation, it would have been 0 kuna. Money only comes out as a loan and it'll have to pay back. And then what happens? We've got a situation where highways can't repay loans, they can't get out of where. There's no state to repay loans from, there's no Agrokor to repay loans from, there's no Petrochemy Kutin. And the question arises is whether I don't know the problem of one bad apple, one bad legal entity, or whether this is the general problem of the whole society. In my opinion, although what is minority, I may represent when I speak from 5 to 10% of citizens, I think the problem of credit default is not the fault of a particular company, individual or state, but the system of this entire monetary as we know it is, a fraud whose aim is to bring the country and the people into debt slavery and to rule it out of property. You assure us as a proposer that the purpose of this loan is to help I don't know how to build a road or what. However, creditors do not lend loans to help us. The banks give credit to our state to take over its assets, to eventually force us to privatize everything, and that we as a people would end up without everything. This upside down redistribution is carried out by a state that actually works not only against the people but against itself. Because after all, the people make that state. Larry Hannigan, Australian, 1971, wrote the book “I Want a Country + 5%. ” He explained the problem in it, gave a picturesque picture of bankers coming and giving citizens the principal credit and then each of them looking for chiefs plus interest. And at the end of the year, of course, since the interest money does not exist, the citizens of that place, or the villagers, from that village, could not repay the loans. And then he took their property. This simple problem was also explained by blogger Nostradurus in his blog, which says, on the topics of the financial system. The problem of money as a debt also explains the animated American movie "American Dream", which lasts for 30 minutes. The problem also explains my book "How Money Made" that can be downloaded from the Internet in PDF. But here I am shouting like a lonely voice in the desert. I'm yelling out loud, the credits can't come back and you're all saying ha good Pernar, so it doesn't matter what you say. Okay, I was saying I couldn't go back, I did, and how did Agrokor end up? He couldn't repay the loans. We all saw it. If the state didn't do some intervention credits for Petrochemy, Petrochemy would be short. Milkmen kill themselves for loans they can't repay. How many families are there waiting for dejection? We had this month's raid due to the loan, ladies and gentlemen. The last one was in Shenkovec yesterday, next to Chakovec. You're crediting Hypo Banks, the man's almost managed to pay back but the interest didn't work, that money was never actually created, he doesn't even know it, probably. People realize they can't repay loans, that's all. that credits can't be returned until they've been decommissioned. A few days before, it was a raid in Motovun, due to the RBA Credit Co-operation. You will say, Mr. Pernar, the problem of credit default does not exist. Okay, 03.07. in Pregledko, again dissuade, credit again, and be careful what interesting detail, the woman was even creditworthy to repay the loan, but she was a guarantee for another loan. The jamac couldn't repay his loan, and as he sat down with her someone else's credit on the charge, she couldn't pay back hers, and the woman flew out of the apartment. Where will all these people live? You'll say maybe well, that's none of our business, but I'm asking you, and who's that supposed to concern? Who's gonna act if we don't? We were given responsibility and assignments in the Parliament. The responsibility and the task of stopping the agony of our own people. The agony of your own country. If we as a people or if we as representatives who have consciousness, we realize that money only comes as a debt, as a loan, that there is no money for interest, that credits can't be returned if we don't do anything, what will people do? People are your sheep. People don't have your consciousness. People don't understand. Mr. Shuker, he understands how these loans work. He knows the state has no way to get them back from and it's not the state's fault. So if someone told Mr. Shuker why Croatia cannot repay loans without taking new loans, he will say immediately so no country that is in such a model can repay its loans. All countries in the world repay debt by taking a new debt, because in this system the debt cannot be paid back and the debate is over, it will get a new loan. But what about families who don't have that consciousness? Who don't realize that the monetary system that America is exporting is one big scam, what about these people? They're going to end up with a sad and sad fate, and the craziest thing I'm trying to say is that they're going to say what this Pernar is saying is that the interest money doesn't exist, that the loans can't go back, that the money is a debt, that the CNB is a currency exchange. People are gonna say you're Pernar crazy, that nobody cares, that's no problem what you're talking about and you know how long they're gonna be talking about it? So as long as they don't come to be disbursed, only when it does, will they understand, so Pernar, you were right, all the time you were saying what was going to happen, but until that moment, until it happened, disaster. What would you say on the German eine grosse catastroche? And you know who I'm reminded of is the gentleman who is proposing this proposal to raise new loans? On Fritz Klingenberg, you know who Fritz Klingenberg was? When was the occupation, i.e. When he set out to attack Yugoslavia, the Germans stood in front of Belgrade and developed the whole plan to take Belgrade, calculated that a lot of soldiers would die, that fighting might take months, etc., that there would be great casualties. And what did Fritz Klingenberg do? He swam with a flu of six soldiers, i.e. In the boat crossed the Danube and bluffed. He said, he simply entered the city center, raised the German flag, and the mayor came and he told the mayor if you don't surrender soon, you're facing a huge attack, artillery, planes, etc., and the mayor didn't know this was bluffing. So that Fritz Klingenberg is an excellent buffer and you watch out for the mayor himself and at that point happened to be passing some German reconnaissance planes, Fritz pointed to the sky, said time girls, the clock goes, and Belgrade actually capitulated, without a shot fired, and what's going on? Fritz reports to the German command that Belgrade is busy, no one believes him, they all tell him, i.e. They say it's a trap. Fritz should be tried when we capture him because he's actually working with Serbs. But Fritz was telling the truth. Belgrade has fallen to my men without a bullet fired. And when after the city was busy at the end of everything without a fight, and they were expected to fight then the mayor of Belgrade realized that he had committed suicide. Yes, study this historic event. Ask Serbs about their heroic history how Belgrade fell, that's what they're asking. But what's the matter? The thing is, Fritz Klingenberg. His bluff's passed. But this bluff that's gonna raise the loans, that's not gonna come back. He may pass today in Parliament, but in reality, when these loans come to be charged, there will be no return from anywhere, new loans will have to be raised. And these creditors, what are they going to do? They'll end up saying this, look, we've had a lot of trouble with you. And you and I both know that you can't repay these loans, we're looking for the privatisation of HEP, highways and whatnot as a condition for the issue of new loans. And the government, ladies and gentlemen, these HDZs are going to have to sell it out because they're going to be blackmailed. You might be against it. Maybe Andrej Plenkovic will be against it. Maybe Plenkovic will say, it's the wrong thing to sell HEP, so it's a gold chicken that brings two billion kunas a year into the budget. But the creditors will tell Plenkovic you're not asked anything, you have to do it. If you don't, there's no more credit. If there is no credit and the system is based on credit, because the state is deprived of the ability to create money. You're doomed. And by doing so, with this loan-lifting policy, we're actually continuing a policy that's been going on for two decades and this is actually the continuation of that policy. Einstein also said that it is insane to expect changes if the same things are repeated, or the same mistakes. And we Croats repeat the same mistakes and believe that the loans will get us out of trouble. You know who believed this would solve the loans of his problems? The man everyone bowed to. Ivica Todorovic, he believed that story about loans. He believed it was a loan rescue, that credit could develop a large system. How did Agrokor end up? He's gone bankrupt and he'll be torn apart. And the same fate of Agrokora is waiting for our country unless it stops under the urgency of this infinite borrowing policy and unless monetary sovereignty is established, unless the state takes over the money, or the central bank, and actually starts broadcasting its own money and financing the construction of highways and whatnot. One time a banker came into my mother's office and this banker when he saw me, he got all scared, didn't expect me. And then we talked, he said yes, so the state could finance these loans from the Croatian National Bank, it was created a new value, it was real work only if it wasn't stolen, no problem. But unfortunately, the loans were a solution in the Calmeta era, but they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42378	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pernar. We have one replica, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42379	Dear colleague Fritz, this Ivan, I'm sorry. I have to, I only answered the line for one reason because it's unfair to call your public exposure not to repeat what you said to four-legged animals. And I don't think that's in any way true, that we must generally give up on this stage, because citizens are not guilty if all the information is not available to them, for example, that information is not available to them to implement a project of world governance, manumonetarianism and manumilitarism and information manipulation. So you should know this, but it shouldn't go anywhere wide and far. You can only listen to our dear macro economist, Mr. Slavko Kulić, who is quite disastrously acting in his presentation. But unfortunately, he's right about most of it. So, I just checked in for this part. Citizens should know a lot more because what's happening to us doesn't happen to the citizens of Germany, Sweden and they don't discuss these things at all. Their financial institutions lend to others because they have a newly created value, because they cultivate a culture of work and something else. So the problem is definitely somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42380	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Hrelja, on the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42381	I'd like to say that Mr. Hrelja is actually saying one important fact, which is that he finally realizes, or admits that the people have been deceived. When I say they're sheep citizens, I'm not saying they're sheep because, as I would say, they're necessarily stupid, but because they don't realize they're being cheated. But they have the ability to stop being sheep and they can understand that they've been cheated and that this is all that's going on in the House is a big circus and that they're going to end up going down with our whole country. And if they don't realize that the simple existence of our country as one subject in political reality on the map of Europe is over. And I wish our people were smart, I wish our citizens weren't sheep. But again, I repeat by looking at our people's choices, the policy that our people support, which leads to the disappearance of these places, I am really asking myself, Mr. Hrelja, what happens to the Croatian people, what happens to the pensioners who dig through the garbage, they have miserable pensions, while we have huge salaries here. And at the same time, they can't survive, and they support that policy, which has led them to choose whether to pay for directors or buy food, whether to eat in a soup kitchen or eat at home. If they eat at home, they don't have to direct, if they don't have to direct, sit down, dig up their electricity, water, etc. I don't know why people support this policy, and I hope with all their heart that the next election will show that people aren't sheep, but if they vote for the same again, then Mr. Hrelja, I don't know what else to say, but that's one big crazy thing that got into our voters' heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42382	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues, if we're gonna do this... so dry, that the Croatian state is in debt for 22 million kuna, then we will miss our debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This loan should be seen in the context of the Partnership Strategy, which the Executive Directors Committee adopted in 2013 for 4 fiscal years. However, there is something that is very important and that has well stated to the applicant here the materials, which are 3 basic objectives in this partnership that the Republic of Croatia signed with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and when we see those 3 basic objectives, then I think there is no parliamentary representative in this assembly that would not support those 3 objectives. Because if you have one goal, to take fiscal consolidation, another to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, your third goal is to increase the impact of Croatia's EU accession through these reforms that will be supported by the World Bank. the withdrawal of funds. These are the three basic objectives and within these three basic objectives, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance have launched loan negotiations for structural reforms that must be implemented in the transport sector. And we here today when we discuss this, we are not only talking about the Croatian state being in charge of 22 million kuna, but I am talking about the Ministry of Transport, together with the portfolio, with public enterprises in the transport sector, taking the obligation to implement certain structural reforms. And that's the point of the whole story. Because by proposing that their committees raise this loan, they take that obligation. And when you look at it, that the World Bank is ready to refinance loans that were raised at interest rates seven or eight or nine years ago, which were what they were, and today they're much less, then I think these structural reforms should be implemented. Because why? Let us not forget colleagues and colleagues that 4 years ago Croatian highways took 40 limes per litre of fuel or at an annual level about 800 million kuna. In 4 years, it's over 3 billion and 200 million kuna. If these coins had remained on the Croatian roads, if structural reforms had been carried out, both in the ministry itself and in the restructuring of Croatian highways, we would have talked today about the debt of Croatian highways which would have been less than 3 billion 200 when you took less interest for that is 3 and a half billion kuna. And not to mention that when you look at what the purpose of this loan is, says the engagement of a financial adviser for transactions that will inter alia prepare a strategy for optimising the debt of a road sector society. And now watch. Three or four years ago, remember the story of... The highway, remember the story of hiring advisors who were paid oho-ho million, that eventually all what they did was thrown into the car and started to talk about some whole other story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order not to go back into the tree into any kind of monetisation or anything else, therefore, this credit is raised, that together with experts from the World Bank, there is a basis for re-financing of existing credit, but what is very important is the planning of the transport sector and the management and monitoring of society in the road sector, which is the optimisation of this strong and powerful road infrastructure that the Republic of Croatia has. Unfortunately, since the construction of the highway, we have not made such a document and we have not made use of it, and also, when this document is made, then we will have a clear picture of what toll should be and how optimal use of these tolls is and that is why the HDZ Club will support this proposal from the Government. And secondly, I am sorry that my colleagues Pernar are not here, if the ministry spends all this expensive and if Croatian highways and Croatian roads and highways Zagreb-Rijeka, implement this everything that will be financed by this loan, then Croatian highways and highways Zagreb-Rijeka will be in a position to repay the loan. That's for sure. And definitely let's not forget that when we were building these infrastructure facilities, then we were doing them as the main axis for development, ours, at this point, the most important economic branches, and that's tourism. Therefore, never highways, no one in Croatia who planned to build them had planned without a certain financial intervention and those 60 June was a financial intervention from the state, because those 60 lipes we had to turn into excise duties otherwise, according to EU directives, along with those 60 lipes, would have to come to the border of 3 kuna and 20, how much minimum excise duties on gasoline in the EU. So, colleagues and colleagues, I sincerely hope that the ministry and the ministry will make an analysis of how much of this was done in the Croatian railways for 20 limes that were transferred to them four years ago. The same thing that was made in Croatian roads, for those 20 limes? Because that road was supposed to be rerouted, if I wasn't wrong about the famous... , i.e. help units of local self-government when we talk about decentralisation etc., but I say about it afterwards, but Croatian highways have lost 4 billion kuna and instead of having a long 28, they still have 32. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42384	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker for this debate. We have one replica of the esteemed colleague of the Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42385	Dear fellow Shuker, it is clear that your absence from the Parliament has left little mark because this replica of mine belongs to the category of the forgotten correction of the incorrect allegation. On two occasions, you mentioned a figure of 22 million kuna, 22 million but the euro, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42386	Thank you. The answer to my esteemed colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, colleague Hrelja. Last week, we had this House Loan Act, so I was very committed to having the kuna in all Croatian documents, not the euro, so I probably had it left, and I didn't change my mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42388	Thank you for your response. The important thing is that you two understood each other. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and Croatian Party of Retired Fellow Nada Turina-Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42389	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I think when you look at loans exclusively in financial parameters, as my colleague Shucker said, that kind of credit would be taken because I think the loan is extremely favourable, but what I would say is confusing our thinking, and related to this proposal is that 22 million euros will be spent on that 22 million euros. It is explained, of course, in the contract itself, and we must stress here that out of these 22 million euros, almost five means 4 million and 770 thousand euros intended essentially or mostly for severance payments in restructuring. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Five, yes, in the restructuring process or in the care of extra employees, which means it's already being prepped before all these studies are done that will need to be made that there are extra employees who will need to be taken care of for five million euros, and we haven't done that study yet. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In the first part it means these 15, the first 15, 17 million euros, or 15 million euros should be spent on studies that will tell us what our condition is in our roads, primarily Croatian highways. And now it's all good, it's all good to think in a way to set it thoroughly, to study it all, to analyze it all by making all the nice and unloved studies, and I think we've done them in this country on many occasions. Unfortunately, we don't have one large and quality institution that was dealing with this sector, which could have produced all of this probably much cheaper, and perhaps even more quality, and it was called the IGH, and we managed to destroy it. But we still have a very good Faculty of Civil Engineering at the University of Zagreb and in some other places, we still have a good Transport College at our university, we also have various institutions that I don't know what they're doing, except that they're only doing scientific work, that I think we should deal with and that's what universities and universities should deal with, and that's kind of socially useful work, that's to produce certain studies and documents that could help the state to work better, and of course these institutions and state enterprises, of course not for the bad guys, but surely through certain contracts with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we could very much help these companies work better. Here you know how you have, I have at least that feeling, we at the club even though the credit says very favourable and has a start and ten years and it's all great and it's probably going to be the effects of applying all these documents that are being made in those ten years, I hope that it will be visible and that it will already slowly start to return those effects in order to actually make sense of this whole loan and investment justifiable. However, we are aware that we have already told a thousand variants about how we are going to solve the problem of large debts and overloading in fact this debt system and that we have not put any in reality in place in quality, and the very likely reason that these debts are truly huge is measured by billions of euros. So one of the proposals was in that former, former government to go monetize, so in that same former, former HDZ government, the same talk of monetization was, but also in that former, former and former government, it gave up. It was a study for both the first and the second. I don't know what these consultants are going to say about this analysis and this study. According to the contract, they should give us some answers that will give us at least a chance to get those loans back to some reasonable time so that our grandkids and great-grandsons won't have to pay them back, let's just say just us and maybe just our children. However, the fact is that more money has been spent in these highways than was ever justified and there is no magic wand that will solve this except somehow our own denial, and the restructuring of the entire system. And now that we all don't have a lot of citizens anymore, we don't have trust, and I personally don't trust that there's going to be some magic wand that's going to solve it all together through these studies, I think it's too little in this whole past period, facing this problem, we're not relying on our own strengths, on our own knowledge, on our own ministry. You have an item here means 15 million euros where you will pay a certain number of people who will even be institutionally formed. So it's an increase, a de facto of bureaucracy, or an increase in administrative capacity, it's called modern. These people will be paid on some fixed deadline with those 15m euros. As many of them are not going to be there, it's some assumption how much they're going to work on such a project, how it's going to be arranged except for public procurement and whether it might get some side, which probably exists because the contest will be as much as I've seen in materials internationally. So we'll call international consultants to make these studies with international money and tell us what we're going to do. But I think that all together is very uncertain how it will end, given the experience we have with such projects and changes in government and politics in our country. So I think it would be much smarter, this kind of means if we could get them on our own mind, try to get funds from both the EU and even from these international credit institutions in a way that we can invest these funds in our own scientific capacities, means in our institutions that we need these same things that we need to build on a certain deadline, not that we are creating new administrative capacities that are likely to become again some part of the ministry tomorrow and a new burden and build-up of actually the administration that I don't say red tape. It's just some thinking about this subject which doesn't mean that we're against it, but I wanted to suggest, or publicly, that we've already done this kind of thing, maybe in a small volume or segmentary way, that we haven't gotten results, that we've spent so far on all this expensive money, that the political battles around it have been left, right and middle, very much, and that it remains as always when we're discussing these things hope that this whole thing will bring exactly the result which, but unfortunately, the practice and experience in this country doesn't tell us that. And otherwise, as far as the loan is concerned in financial terms, I think the loan is absolutely something that, negotiated in a way that is extremely favourable. Well, here's the luck, but can any kind of appeal especially related to this problem, that is, to the problem of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, which is from the railways to the ports and is complete this story extremely demanding, expensive that when we try to do this kind of thing, we use our own knowledge and our own mind and that maybe one day we have a construction institute again, a Croatian construction institute that we'll be proud of and that these things will be done through six months as it used to be! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42390	I thank my esteemed colleague Nadia Turini-Djuric for this debate. We have a few replicas. The first came to the line from a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42391	Dear colleagues, I will, after this debate of yours as an individual in our club, be very restrained about this law, not diminishing its value in terms of what you were saying. I am bothered by another fact that we generate credit for the severance of individual structures of employees in Croatia generate great inequalities in workers' rights. We're raising a loan here with real estate that will be paid by all taxpayers, and it may occur to us that thousands of Konzum workers go home tomorrow without severance. Are we invited to borrow credit and generate these inequalities? To remind ourselves, we were paying for the severances, or we took the severance loan in HZ infrastructure, we took the loans at the shipyard's recovery. And what did we get? It's about what happened. the naiveness of the law with encouraging severances, the naiveness of the law. They go, people go on a voluntary basis and go all those who can find a job somewhere else, and these companies stay poorer for the best staff. Is it a government function to be in charge of these purposes? I remind you, the Republic of Italy has a fine rapporto fund, each, employer and worker invests every year in that fund and everyone has a right whether or not they got or quit for each year get 0.8 average, monthly salary, for each year internship. Let's try to learn something from others, let's not generate inequality.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42392	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. Reply from counterpart Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42393	I see another problem here and it is that it has been observed that the state, the poor state of debt for Croatia highways long ago and, of course, burdens the state budget and burdens the entire country. That was why these ideas were also proposed, monetization, discharge in this sense of the government's obligation. And for years it's been talking about restructuring, and then a few years ago I don't know a single three, two, three years ago it seems to me that a company that was supposed to unite all the highway jobs, do restructuring, take care of extra employees, so we've formed a new company, this new company, as far as I know it wasn't shut down, no one should have said, it's certainly doing a certain part of the people and probably more than it did while Croatian highways were separated, so it's not really done I won't say anything, because it's probably some kind of natural outage that some people went into retirement, I hope they're not new employees, since they were all aware of how much Croatian highways are burdened with debt. However, we have already provided 5m euros in advance in this structure of this loan, and we don't actually know, because I don't think we know how much of the extra employees are, or how long they're going to need to be taken care of and how much they're actually going to be worth. It is clear to me that the funds will be withdrawn according to what will be realised, that is, what will be the programme, but it is not clear to me that we are already talking to 5 million euros in advance and where you are absolutely right where you say it means we are already providing the funds somewhere in advance, and somewhere it will happen that people will go or lose their jobs and nowhere will be in mind, let alone in insurance through some kind of credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42394	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Turina-Djuric. Next to the replica reported by a distinguished colleague, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42395	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Djuric, how we don't realize that this loan contract is the basis with which the World Bank will accept the refinancing of the loan. I told you that when I was talking on behalf of the club. HAC needs to change the long-term credit. And as soon as the loan's maturity changes, it means the annual annuities will be reduced and the HAC will start to function normally, it will be able to pay normally. Because look, I'm looking at financial logic. How is it worth it to someone to come to Croatia and give that kind of money, to manage something that's supposed to be invaluable? Kind of weird. But if the loan is changed and the arrangement is to be made, do you think the World Bank doesn't know what the situation in the HAC is? So ask your colleagues from the Government in 4 years, and the Minister of Transport and Minister of Finance, in all talks with the World Bank Office in Zagreb, how many have they mentioned highways as one neural point that can affect the deficit of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia has provided a guarantee for these loans. So we're now surprised that they're saying they should be fired, so they know exactly what the situation is. Just as we know that these companies should be restructured, if they need to restructure a bunch of public enterprises to be effective, because the function of public enterprises is to provide services to citizens at as low cost as possible. It's not like there's room for us to hire people, and it's just going to be paid by citizens, the point is that citizens pay less. Well, when we start thinking that way, then we won't ask ourselves a question like this. I know that from the opposition position, it's great, it's effective to say that you already know how many people you fire. But I'm saying, look at the documents, ask your colleagues because you weren't in the government, ask your colleagues what they discussed, and you'll see that those in the World Bank know very well what the problem is, and that Croatian consultants can come forward, so they should be cheaper and more competitive to do this job than any international house, because they know the situation better.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42396	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. Reply from counterpart Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42397	I understand everything you're saying and logically everything you're saying, but what I wanted to encourage in my debate and I see that I've partially succeeded, we've had too many attempts and mistakes. So, since this new government or, as the former-newer one would say, a colleague or minister of traffic talked about how to introduce a new collection system, I think he said that in the first 15 days what was the minister. All sorts of ideas were raining, and all sorts of consultants and teams were engaged who were supposed to, you just said, everyone knows very well, and we all know very well, and all these years nothing concrete happened. I understand that now in interpreting this you are giving us hope that this will now begin, ab this, great, let's go, but I warn, it's not the first time we're like this, I'm not going to tell you the promises, but such an open, very transparent approach has been seen, and that in the end it didn't happen, and we all know very well. What were they doing and what were waiting for Croatian highways, namely HAC ONC, and everyone else to go into restructuring. If they've done anything in these last three years, regardless of whether it's her or her government, we don't always have to call ourselves this or that government, if they've done anything, they'd probably already have some effects on all of it, because of the skepticism, and not because I think it's bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42398	I thank my esteemed colleague Turini-Djuric for his reply. And the last replica after this debate, distinguished colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42399	Dear colleagues Đuric, you mentioned the meaning of investment, so we must say that highways did not occur overnight, they began to be designed and designed by our project houses, among other things, and the one you mentioned. Therefore, it created our brains of these and those governments were making guidelines on how to make them, they began to build themselves, you know, at the time of 2001 or which was already, and here, and for all of this it was necessary to provide quite substantial resources that were quite expensive during that period. Now in the conditions in which we are, in which Croatia is as a member of the EU if you have read that the Republic of Croatia is a full member of the EBRD and has also a certain number of shares in the EBRD, so since '93. even, then it actually gives certain security and the possibility that it could be achieved under these conditions the possibility to refinance and ultimately pay less interest than it was with the initial contracts. Therefore, we must surely strive for all this to happen. Finally, some 500 million kuna was saved on behalf of the refinancing of certain loans in 2016. Therefore, we should strive to manage our debt in this way and achieve as much optimism as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42400	I would like to thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague, Peric. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas in this debate. We move on to the next individual debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Thank you. Is it possible that the proposaler's representative would like to finish? Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. I would like to thank Mr Mihotic, the Secretary of State of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure for the explanation of this proposal. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42401	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project "Modernisation and restructuring of the road sector", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 151 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project "Modernisation and restructuring of the road sector". Please let us vote. I find that most of the votes 114 for, 3 abstentions and 2 against the law adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42402	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Labour Search Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 99. The draft law shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day Rules of Procedure. In relation to Article 190 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Act have been adopted into the boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on this bill was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer's representative want an additional explanation? Here you go. Dear State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System Katarina Ivanković Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42403	Dear MPs and MPs, we have before us the final proposal for a law on the insurance of workers' enquiries in the second reading. In the first reading, there was a broad consensus of all MPs and advocates on this law, so I will just point out what has been changed in fact in relation to the law that is currently in force. Thus, protection of workers' rights in the event of bankruptcy has been implemented since 2008 when it was actually only a claim in the event of bankruptcy, and protection of workers' rights in the event of a blockade of accounts has been implemented since 2015. The body implementing the protection of those rights and the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims in the event of an employer’s bankruptcy, as it is already apparent from the Agency’s name that it applies, that the name refers to only one part of the law which covered it. This law also provides for a change in the name of this agency which, instead of the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims in the event of bankruptcy, will be called the Agency for Workers' Needs and the word “seeking” is replaced by the words “request”. So other than these nomotechnical segments, which means they include all that and bankruptcy and blockade. Key changes relate to workers, i.e. the period during which workers achieve a protected period or during which they can exercise their rights. According to the applicable law, the protected period represented a period of three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings, i.e. three last months before the person ceased to work if it ceased within three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings. The deadline now moves to six months before opening a bankruptcy procedure, which in fact gives a much larger number of workers the opportunity to search for their claims. Namely, in cases where bankruptcy proceedings, and most often due to the length of the court proceedings or the duration of the pre-demand settlement procedure, are opened after a three-month period, counting, of course, on the day of termination of the working relationship, the former workers are deprived of their rights. But here we will allow them to also be able to achieve those rights within that period of six months, but it does not penetrate the kind and scope of the rights that are being protected. The same is the issue in which the worker, or in the request of the worker in which the agency has to decide. This is 15 days by solution, and within 15 days of the execution of the solution, payment is made to the special purpose account of the creditor. The rights that workers can achieve by this law are five types of rights. These are unpaid salaries, i.e. salary fees, outstanding benefits for sick leave, which according to health insurance regulations was due to be paid by the employer and outstanding benefits for unused vacations. These fees, i.e. those claims, shall be covered up to the minimum wage amount, while the rest of the worker shall be carried out in a bankruptcy procedure according to, of course, specific rules. The two rights that a worker may also exercise by this law, which is the severance of half of the severance payment established in a bankruptcy procedure, up to half of the maximum amount of the prescribed severance bill, and the rightly paid compensation for damages suffered by injuries at work or occupational illness, in the amount of up to one-third of the rightful compensation. All of these rights are exempt from the exercise and it is important to emphasise this because their payment ensures, in fact, that basic existence, i.e. the existence of workers on the so-called “worker”. A socially acceptable level. There is also one exception to this principle, which is that the rights in the event of the opening of a bankruptcy procedure cannot be exercised by members of the company’s management, member of the board of directors, executive director of the company and the manager of the cooperative, regardless of the period during which these transactions were carried out and because the purpose of the law is to ensure the payment of minimum claims and the protection of that category of workers who could not affect the decision-making and these categories that I had just pointed out were quite certain and affected the decision-making process. In the event of a blockade of employers' accounts, this law actually eliminates those shortcomings that existed in the previous law and now the provisions are clearer and unequivocal. The procedure initiated by the employer, which until the last month did not pay the salary, i.e. the salary fee, to the worker belonging to the previous month, is due to the financial agency to submit a request for forced remuneration with the account of the unpaid salary. In the event of an account blockade, the employer shall submit to the agency a summary request for payment of salaries, i.e. a minimum wage fee for all workers who did not pay the salary in that month. The Agency shall adopt a minimum wage solution for each employer whose account has been blocked, increased by contributions to pay. Exports of minimum salaries paid by the agency, the employer is obliged to return within the prescribed time limit, and the agency will require funds to be recovered through the Financial Agency by a request for forced payment with the primary order. It's important and that's what's changed in law. If the employer does not submit a request to the Financial Agency for forced payment, and the central authority of the state administration, responsible for overseeing the application of labour regulations, i.e. labour inspection, according to the Tax Administration, has knowledge that the employer has not paid the salary, it will make a solution to the provision of payment, seizing or banning the money available to the employer on any bank account, for the amount of the minimum wage prescribed and the number of workers not paid in that month. The insurance measure shall continue until the employer submits a request to the Financial Agency for forced payment or pay the worker a salary. And yet, as in the previous segment, the members of the management, the executive directors of the company and the managers of the cooperatives are excluded. What is crucial is that this law ensures more effective protection of workers' existence. For the implementation of this law in the Republic of Croatia's budget, i.e. in the state budget, funds have been provided for an insurance procedure in the event of a bankruptcy of €53 million and for a procedure in the event of a blockade of €15 million. This proposal of the Labour Search Insurance Act was adopted at the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament, 27 March 2017. The proposals and opinions addressed to the applicant were nomotechnical in nature and were as such respected and included in the nomotechnical amendment of this law. It would be brief on the segments of the law and what is important to know about this law, and we invite you, of course, to vote for this law on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42404	I thank the esteemed secretary Katarini Ivanković Knezevic for this explanation. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Lipoščak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42405	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, at first I must say that as until yesterday's union commissioner, this legislative proposal has been particularly joyful, and it is also a joy to know that almost all union centres have been very positive and publicly showing me about such a bill. As you said earlier in this case, the protection of workers' rights is achieved precisely through the special protection of claims in the event of the opening of the acquired procedure, in a way that ensures payment of part of the claim on the burden of the state budget. It is about unpaid salaries, severances and fees up to the minimum wage amount for each month of the protected period. The remaining part of the claim the worker achieves in a bankruptcy procedure, on the burden of acquired mass. Now. It is precisely this acquired mass, i.e. the collection of the remaining part very often comes into question, and a few days ago I had the opportunity to talk to representatives of the Sibenik TLM trade union, the Light Metal Factory and the Croatian Metal Union, and in fact I am transferring several of their queries, issues, which are actually specific and characteristic of most of the companies in these cases. In the first row, whether or not the extent to which the state can influence and control the work of bankruptcy managers, in order to avoid and reduce their shortfall, let’s say unserious behaviour and delay bankruptcy. Second, which measures can be made by a country which often appears as a majority owner in such situations, that the buyer is found in one of the first sales circles, so that the price further would not be reduced and to allow the payment of the remaining claims of workers, and often kept jobs in the future and continued production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42406	I thank my dear fellow Liposchak. State Secretary Katarina Ivankovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42407	Thank you very much. You know, of course, that bankruptcy managers, who are appointed by a bankruptcy judge, are in line with the positive regulations, but the bankruptcy managers really play a very important role in the context of this law. What is regulated by law is that bankruptcy managers must co-operate with the agency for labour claims, i.e. demand for labour auctions, and that is the key segment where they are obliged to provide all necessary documentation, from payrolls, eyewitnesses, a journal of presence at the workplace and there is most often, in fact the problem where they do not always cooperate with the agency or perhaps with other bodies. This has already been known to happen, in which case, the agency has the mechanism to write bankruptcy, or bankruptcy judge, and requires a reaction from it. These reactions are generally very fast, as it is and the bankruptcy judge is in the interest that the procedure works and that it is brought to an end. By now, the agencies have written individual cases. In several cases, the check and the change in the bankruptcy manager, which means that there is a mechanism that can be intervened, and in any case, when we look, for example, the number of employers who did not pay the salary in 2015 was in September more than 6.5 thousand, at the end of last year, and at the beginning of this year, this figure at 1200, 1300, however, this significant decline. But until it's zero, we won't be satisfied until all employers pay their wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42408	Thank you for your response to the secretary of state. Another replica of distinguished counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42409	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, on the trail of what your colleague said, but also what you were saying about this final bill, the shortcomings and provisions are much clearer, but it is also more effective to protect the existence of workers. Since I have also followed a working group related to this law and I know how valuable this has been, the fact is that the aim of this law is to protect every worker in Croatia, that each of them receives a salary because it is also a fundamental human right, a right to work or a right to a fair salary. This legislation should really highlight the fact that workers protect not only those three months, but it increases to six months, which is very important. That's what I'm saying for reasons because one large part of these people when companies go bankrupt go into that early bankruptcy pension, which again increases the expenditure through retirement for such work. That's why I welcome what was done by this law. This must be a good and quality law, and as much as I read and read from my first reading, I see that many clubs have praised this law with certain applications that you have respected and I thank you for.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42410	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Anti Babic. We're moving on to debates. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Martha Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42411	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Respected secretary of state. In front of us is the Final Proposal of the Labour Search Insurance Act. It is one of the laws that protects workers' rights on the one hand and its basic right of pay for the work done, and on the other hand, it indirectly introduces order into the entire system in which the number of blocked employers was very large and thus the number of workers who did not make their salary. This law was first passed in 2008, after which two amendments were made, and now this is one still extended and an even better completed draft law on the insurance of workers' claims, and it together with amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law that has been applied now since 2015 and a set of tax laws has led to a marked reduction of blocked employers, and thus the number of workers who do not make their salaries. So since 2014, we've had a so-called "IRS" in the IRS. the blacklist where the records of blocked employers are kept, that is, after amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act have been adopted, or after employers are obliged to lecture so-called "the Income Tax Act". Since then, JOP patterns have seen the number of blocked employers. In 2015, their number was 5032, and 14 thousand workers were not paid. In 2016, that number was 7413 about 25 thousand workers did not receive pay. This year, we see a drastic decline in the number of blocked employers, which is 937 and 3930 workers do not receive salaries. I believe that this law has contributed to the fact that this law regulates not only the right of workers to pay salaries in the event of bankruptcy but also the right of workers to pay him off some minimum existential minimum and in the event of employer blockade. So that's exactly what the IRS now has, or if the employer doesn't do it, the IRS and the IRS to do the blocking of that employer who didn't pay the workers' salary within the legal deadline. This law provides workers with that existential minimum, this refers to the minimum wage paid in gross amount, there we have the payment of minimum amounts of severance, then is guaranteed through the agency the payment of the rightful amount of compensation due to damage to work or occupational illness provided that the verdict is justified and that the request for payment is initiated either before the employer's blockade or before the bankruptcy has been opened and in some way the workers and their dignity have been protected. Of course, there remains a question of speed if it is bankruptcy, bankruptcy speeds and payment of the remaining amount due to employers, but since the agency is involved as one of the bankruptcy creditors, we believe that there will now be a greater impact of the state and the greater interest of the state that these bankruptcys take place faster, better and better quality, and workers who are in that first payment order will also be charged their entire claims. This law has been passed and by the SDP club, we have no objections to it, however, we consider it a very well written law and as a club we will support this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42412	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Martha Luc-Polanc, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42413	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's to the end of this day that was really rich and with exhaustive debates I'll try not to be long. Most of that on this final bill has already been said, so I'm just going to point out once again what's most important, which is actually why the HDZ club supports this proposal as it is. What is important to say is that this law has achieved some important goals and one of them is above all that the legislation that has been passed has brought this final proposal into line with EU law. Compared to the current law, this proposal introduces a particular newspaper that actually leads to better protection of workers, i.e. their claims in the event of bankruptcy of the employer or the blockade of the employer's accounts. And we think that, in any case, when that level of rights is extended that it is always good and that, in every respect, there is a need to try as much protection as possible of workers' rights, especially in today's time when it really happens overnight that many employers go bankrupt. In many situations, this bankruptcy ends very quickly because it is opened and practically closed because there is no sufficient value of the property itself, or value to settle the costs of the bankruptcy process, so such bankruptcy procedure practically ends as soon as such facts are established. And in that sense, practically all claims are not charged. So in this way and in this law, even in the event of an employer's blockade, those existential rights of workers are protected. It is particularly important that this law provides that workers' rights are thus paid out of service and we think that this is very important for the protection of workers' rights. What is also important is that this final draft of the law and determines the very name of the law and the agency with the content of the law, that is, what the Agency is implementing in relation to, in fact, in contrast to how it is now a situation because the current name results in the application of the law only to bankruptcy proceedings, which is not the case. What I would also point out is that it is very important and important to exclude the possibility of cumulating the exercise of rights in the same period on different grounds. It also means in case he's an employer and in bankruptcy and there's a blockage of accounts. Here it is said in the law that it is not possible to exercise rights on both grounds because it would actually be contrary to what is the intensity of the law itself and we think it is good. I also think it's important that the regulation is actually the right to charge all claims which, all the employees' claims paid by the agency, instead of the employer. In this way, the resources are actually protected from the Croatian budget and I think it is in the interest of all of us and that it is actually shown in this way a good concern that this has also been taken into account. What is also highlighted is that it is important news that there is both the Agency's obligation and the FINA's to exchange data on unpaid wages because many times the agency has no data right away. Thus, it is essential that this cooperation on non-payment and receipt of data on unpaid salaries be accessed effectively and quickly by the very process of realising the payment of minimum funds or remuneration to the worker. They are also guided in this way and are actually accessible to the aggregated requirements for forced payment. What is also significant is that this law extends the right not only to pay wages but also to extend the right to pay the right to an unpaid, or to an unreserved annual holiday, which is also one of the essential labour rights, and we believe that it is also significant that, if such right is not paid, the worker can exercise, as well as the right to an unpaid right to compensation and also the right to compensation for damages which has been legally convicted in the proceedings. And since all of this is stated that this law is indeed one step in relation to the current law on the protection of workers' rights, the HDZ club will support this proposal and we believe that it will support all other clubs, and that in this way we will show that we are all really trying to protect workers' rights and under these conditions as they rule on the market today, it is possible to be better and that we will try to continue to protect these rights to the greatest extent possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42414	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Representatives and HSU, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42415	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor. Well, it won't be a hard job for us in this debate, and certainly not for the vote, because when you get one law among all kinds of laws, which is actually a desired solution for social partners, and also for the state, the ministry, the government thinks it's one civilization achievement that we need to achieve at this point, then there's no problem in support of such a law. I would indeed not repeat now in this debate what is an esteemed State Secretary explicitly and very briefly, in substance, I would just like to say what impressions were followed by this and the mood, the adoption or creation of a final bill proposal, that was that it was an exceptional cooperation on the Economic and Social Council, that they were respected, respected, most of those remarks in the technical implementation of therefore in communication between employers' agencies, between FINA, between commercial courts, so there are a lot of experience and problems that follow the whole area embedded in this law. Finally, the representatives of the social partners were invited to all meetings of the Labour Committee, the pension system, were actively involved, so this law has the support of the social partners and the Economic and Social Council, it does not say, perhaps the first page should always indicate that, with a high degree of consent or consensus of the social partners and therefore it is the right, I think, the real satisfaction of voting for everyone for this law. What I would just point out is that the actual paper is that the area of protection of workers, or the period of protection of workers, is increasing twice, from three to six months, the newspaper is also that the right to pay the rightful compensation for damages suffered by a work injury or a professional disease of up to one third of the rightful compensation for damages will be exceptionally achieved by a worker who has not obtained the payment of the rightful compensation for damages, regardless of when his working relationship has ceased, provided that the execution of the sentence that became effective before the bankruptcy procedure was opened required by the employer by force of the employer. So, another option is opened, of course, with certain control mechanisms, it can't ask for compensation whenever anyone wants and without any rules, but it's one new possibility and therefore, it has its own dimension of justice of this law, to exclude all those board members, board members, executive directors then cooperative directors, etc., so all those cooperative managers and all those who have had the opportunity to bring that company into the right street, let's not let this happen. I'm sorry now because this is a law that doesn't distinguish employers or state owners here, and there's no difference in ownership at all. So, everyone is both private and state institutions, etc., and now that I'm back in the debate before that, where we're taking out a loan to pay off the state-owned severances, then I'm really sorry that we didn't look up 25 years ago to what neighboring Italy was doing, who had a severance fund that both employers and workers invested in together, and each of them, regardless of whether they got fired or quit, for years worked with the employer, got 0.8 salaries per year of internships. Then they're all equal. Here, for some who are state-owned, the state will be a mother, and for those who eventually lose their jobs tomorrow in Konzum, they will be a stepmom. That is why I support this law even further because it has in its contents and this dimension of justice. And just one, let's just say, one weak point of this law, and it's not about you in the ministry, it's not about social partners either, but it's about the time things happen, which is that I'm afraid that if there's a cloud break or those gray clouds that are overpowering Croatia in terms of the drama of Agrokora, then this amount you've signed up to be necessary to secure in the budget, it won't be enough, it's the only lack of this law. And I repeat, in the end, the Club of Independent Representatives and HSU will be happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42416	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Silvan Hrelja, for the debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42417	Thank you, Vice President. Authorized lawmakers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I think we've really exhausted everything that could be praised in this law in previous speakers and in the presentation itself, so I'm going to be very brief and just point out a few things. Of course the HNS club will support this law. In fact, it is already a newspaper according to the new regulation adopted in 2015, as you have stated, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Insurance of Jobs' Search, but what is important here and what is certainly already said, so I will only briefly repeat this increased availability of protection to former workers for a protected period, now not to repeat everything, in relation to what is said. Certainly, the only important thing to do is to exclude from the exercise and right in the event of the opening of a bankruptcy proceedings against the employer on the basis of this base of outstanding compensation for unused vacations, severances, the rightful resulting damages caused by sustained injury to work or occupational illness. This is certainly important, I want to say, something that may not have been seen in that way at all. It is an article 33, that is, the procedure for the exercise of rights in the event of an employer's account blocking. In fact, the most important thing is what we have done with this law is that the shortcomings, i.e. the elimination of shortcomings, are by prescribing clear and unequivocal procedural provisions so that our employers can actually use this particular Article 33 which speaks of the inability to pay their workers' salaries in the event of a blockade where the employer submits a request. And then, of course, to what is even positively stated is that the unpaid salaries, i.e. the fees paid in favour of the workers, are also accounted for by the legal tightening interest, which is certainly commendable, given that we just couldn't have the opportunity to hear that someone who is late paying the interest on that late amount. But what it does actually enables employers to keep working, to get the conditions to unblock, to collect their claims, probably because of which they were brought into a blockade, without having to worry about having no labour force. So it's something that protects the worker, and it allows the employer to get out of trouble. As we see here and here, Agrokor has been mentioned several times and this map tower and the system of connected vessels, where indeed some employers may not be guilty of their own guilt and are not brought into these situations and the situation of the blockade because of the inability to collect their claims, this certainly gives them extra time to continue with their work, production or whatever they are dealing with through this institute, and that is certainly commendable and on that side. Of course, once again, the HNS club will support this law and we think this is a good step in protecting workers above all, but also what I listed as employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42418	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Churay, for this debate. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Ms Katarini Ivanković, and the Director of the Agency, Mr Ivan Madunić, for the reasons of this bill. We'll vote on this item on the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42419	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Labour Search Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 99. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was filed by a representative of Peja Grbin. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. We are pleased with Katarina Ivanković Knezevic, State Secretary in the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Here you go. Amadandman No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42420	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Regarding the first amendment, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in The Act on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in trading companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia for labour disputes is authorised to launch executive actions and, in accordance with the provisions of Article 42 of the same law, to act with payment grounds under the provisions laid down in Articles 69 to 71 of the Law acquired. Therefore, in the event of non-payment of wages to workers due to the blocking of the employer’s accounts against the company on which the extraordinary administration is carried out, the final draft law on the insurance of workers’ claims can be applied, as it is based on the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of non-payments of workers’ salaries. It's the same case in case of blockage. Therefore, we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42421	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42422	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, if what you've said is true, we wouldn't need those provisions in law relating to the protection of workers' rights in bankruptcy. Because even then, they would only apply in situations where the due account is blocked. So what you said doesn't absolutely stand. First of all, it does not stand because this law violates EU law. From the moment the law passed the first reading we introduced a new insolvency procedure in Croatia. Directive 2008/94/EC does not make the difference between insolvency proceedings or does not make the difference between how the insolvency procedures are called but rather requires it to be implemented on all insolvency proceedings in a Member State. The extraordinary administration procedure, as clearly stated in the Emergency Administration Act, is an insolvent procedure conducted instead of bankruptcy proceedings, instead of bankruptcy proceedings. As we know, for example, for Konzum, a proposal to launch a bankruptcy procedure was first launched, after which the proposal was suspended because the extraordinary administration of Agrokora was initiated. The only thing that is required of this amendment is that the workers for whom your government notes say there will be no cancellation in Agrokor and Konzum, and now we see that there will be, therefore, workers of those companies that are led by the extraordinary administration procedure in the same position, at least in the same position as the issue of protection with other workers in other companies in the Republic, but your government does not want it. Of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42423	Okay. We will now approach the vote on an amendment which the applicant does not accept. Please, let's vote. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Now, please give me an explanation for Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42424	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment either, given that the Final Proposal for the Labour Law protects workers' material rights from working relationships and does not prescribe an extraordinary administration procedure, it is not necessary to set deadlines for extraordinary administration procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42425	Would you like to see a fellow coat of arms? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42426	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. What's now said is the taste of everything we've claimed when the Emergency Administration Act was passed. It doesn't protect workers. In fact, even now when we pass the Labour Search Insurance Act, this government does not want to bring into it those workers who are in Agrokor, or other companies that are going to be under arrest today, tomorrow let God not initiate the extraordinary administration procedure. And that's it. This government doesn't care about workers. And with this proof of the amendments, it's absolutely and clearly shown. I have nothing else to say but it's a shame and ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42427	We then vote once again on an amendment which the motionary does not accept. Please vote. I also find that this amendment has not received the required majority. So we move on to a vote on the final draft of the Labour Search Insurance Act. Please let us vote. I thank the secretary of state. I find that the majority of votes 81 for, 31 abstentions are passed by the Labour Search Insurance Act together, i.e. without amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42428	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State aid, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 76. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. The rules of procedure and in relation to Article 190 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The materials were delivered to you in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You also received reports at the session. Is it possible that the motionary's representative would like to give an explanation? Here is Mr. Željko Tufekčić, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42429	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives, it is a little later but here I would say a few words about the law. So, before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Support Act. In our first reading, we discussed him in mid-February. At that time, a rather broad debate was held, and I am pleased to say that there were no more significant objections to the text of the law itself, so it was also accepted at a session on February 17th this year. In relation to this first reading, minimal changes were made, minimum procedures on two articles and this is nomotechnical in nature. But here, let me say one more time about the law itself and the basic amendments that these amendments to the law have been proposed. Therefore, the State aid Act lays down the powers of the Ministry of Finance and State aid providers, i.e. to support small value in the Republic of Croatia and to the extent that the competence in relation to state aid is passed on to the EU bodies primarily by the European Commission and in line with the acquis. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The EU has exclusive competence in establishing the rules on competition necessary for the functioning of the internal market within which the State aid rules belong. Therefore, the state aid rules themselves, i.e. State aid, are defined at EU level, and Member States transfer them or accept them as such. This law only defines the functions and responsibilities of individual bodies within the Republic of Croatia in the award of those same support. Therefore, only certain types of State aid if they meet the conditions laid down in Commission Regulation No 651 of 2014 on the assessment of certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market in the application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaties are exempt from the obligation to report to the European Commission. Control the fulfilment of the conditions for exempting state aid from the application of the European Commission shall also be carried out by the Ministry of Finance and shall issue an opinion on their compliance with the State aid rules. It shall also inform the European Commission of such assistance through a specific electronic system. The standard categories of State aid granted under the Common Exclusion Regulation are regional support, support for SMEs, state support for research, development and innovation, state support for employment, improvement, environmental protection, culture, etc. For other State support decisions establishing that State aid in question is compatible with the principles of the internal market, the European Commission shall adopt. Without a positive decision from the European Commission, the EU Member State must not grant such state support, and the process of reporting such support to the European Commission shall also be carried out by the Ministry of Finance through the already mentioned specific electronic system. The State aid law, as well as its amendments and additions, applies only to state aid to industry and services, rather than to state aid in agriculture and fisheries. I stress this because last time, in fact, the debate was mostly about aid in agriculture, which are not the subject of this law. This final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the State aid Act adds provisions on the transparency of state aid and complements existing provisions in the section relating to the State aid register. The final draft law would make the necessary adjustments to the transparency of State aid data resulting from Commission Regulation No 651 of 2014 on the assessment of certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market and in the application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty and other EU acts. It is, in fact, that the EU, its one act on modernising state aid from 2012 has begun to modernise state support. And one of the aspects of this modernisation is the increase in transparency of state aid. The transparency itself is a key component of the modernisation mentioned, namely in the context of this modernisation, the rules on state aid, which are being implemented, given greater authority to EU Member States, in granting state aid, based on the Regulation on common exemption and similar rules, which is State aid not subject to the obligation to report to the European Commission, but for the sake of prior approval, which is approved by the Ministry of Finance. The new rules on EU state support, due to the greater absence of... State aid control by the European Commission, as counter-thesis, predict stronger and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the control and this particular transparency, i.e. the publication of information on the State aid granted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Achieving transparency relates to the obligation of the EU Member States to publish on one web site data on individual State aid allocations exceeding 500 000 euros and a summary of information relating to programmes, i.e. individual state support, in line with the Common Exemption Regulation. In addition to the information mentioned above, which is subject to the EU aid rules, on the basis of the State aid register, other information on support will be published and, in accordance with the new Regulation of which it is being drawn up. In view of the powers of the Ministry of Finance under the existing State Aid Act, the network site, that comprehensive network stranger that is mandatory, will be precisely the website of the Ministry of Finance, and it will publish data on programmes, i.e. individual state aids. In addition, the final draft law amends the provisions of the State Aid Act, the content of the Register of State aid and the support of small value, thus extending the scope of the register and facilitating its use. In addition to the information on the state aid granted and the small-value support provided for in the proposal, the Register of State aid would contain data on programmes and individual State aid, for which there is a obligation to report to the European Commission, but also on state aid for which there is no application obligation, previous applications to the European Commission. Under the State aid Act, this register has already been adopted and its use by the Ministry of Finance has begun, but also the granter of state support and support for small value. As I said, compared to the first reading, there were no significant changes, except for minimal and truly minimal nomotechnical procedures in Articles 14 and 12 of the Law itself. In view of all of this, and given the fact that these changes are essentially minimal and are exclusively aimed at increasing transparency, an increase in publicly available information on the state aid granted. Here's my proposal. We expect the adoption of this law and its vote in the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42430	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Tufekčić, for this explanation. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We move to debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate and individual. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42431	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, if we were to talk about the definition of these amendments to the State Support Act, then we could say that they are practically through Articles 4 and 5 can sum up what is most important, and that is transparency and the public. However, when we look at the definition of state aid itself, it is clear to us why this transparency and the public is so important, why the EU has clearly distinguished the support for which a report should be sent and the support for which it should not be sent, but for one single reason, because state support, any state support is either a cost, expenditure on the state budget, or a potentially reduced revenue from the state budget. So either you gave someone money or you gave them certain legal provisions some tax exemptions, or some other relief, in such a way as to reduce the income of the state budget, which is why you put him in a more favourable position than any other entrepreneur who was unable to reach these funds, and therefore the EU insists, because we are part of the common European market, to report and strictly monitor these support, sometimes to Croatia's entry into the EU, and to support practically followed by our Competition Protection Agency and they were what God and the beatings say, although they are basically doing one part of the job for the EU today, for support that they come in the form of European funds because the funds from European funds are the same support. So let's not look at it any other way. What is very important is that by establishing this register and whatever support in agriculture is not in the jurisdiction of this law, they are regulated by other laws, the Ministry of Agriculture, must report to the Ministry of Finance and it is good that it is now clearly defined that the Ministry of Finance is parent, as it is said, the house that registers and all support providers, state and small value support are obliged to report to the Ministry of Finance, and therefore I say that Article 4 and 5 of this law, amendments and additions to this law, in principle regulates the essence of what the legislator wanted to do, what he wanted to achieve, and ultimately what the European Commission wants us to do. And on the other hand, colleagues and colleagues when you look at only a few sectors of how much the annual support report is, because this register has started from 1.1.2017 if I'm not wrong, working. Unfortunately, the 2014 and 2015 report has not been adopted, for 2016 I do not know if it has been done at all. It's not, but it's going to be done, so in 2015, here's the information, just look at the support for environmental protection and energy savings for a billion and 79 million, these are these vertroelectric renewable energy sources. So you have allotted state transport support, just before we talked about a loan for road transport restructuring programme in the Republic of Croatia, so rail transport 600 million, maritime transport 309 million, air traffic 94 million, total billion kuna. So when you look at the level of only these aids without agriculture, it's somewhere in 2015 at 2.5 billion kuna. So extremely large funds, and when we add up all the support in the Republic of Croatia to support small value, and when we add up the support in agriculture, then we get to the amount of more than 5.5 billion kuna. And I guess it's clear to everyone why the Ministry of Finance wants to go through the register and through this network station that the availability of these support to whoever got it, how, under what conditions and efficiency of these divisions is available to everyone because if we want to use the resources of the state budget more rationally and better, given the tax exemptions of the state budget, we don't want the state budget to be without effect if it is diminished because you see every day you have demands and wishes that someone be free of a tax. You, if you free someone from a tax, you've given them support, you've reduced the income to the state budget and if it's made for a local self-government unit, and now there's a question of what the effects of all this are expensive, and the EU is pressing us to send a report and to control it all for reasons that they don't want anyone from Croatia to show up with more support than other countries' businesses in the EU. And make sure that in a bunch of cases, especially with agricultural products you have plenty of support under the grain. So when we talk about the price of agricultural products how someone can have this in the old EU member states, and our farmer complains that he can't even go crazy for that price to produce it. So support is one big political game and one great opportunity, helping its entrepreneurs, especially farmers. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the State Support Act with a clear objective of offering one transparency, offering the public every one will be able to enter the network station of the Ministry of Finance and see who, how and why it has received any support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42432	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Shuker, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42433	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Proposer, Imported Proposers. So, by harmonising with the EU's acquis with the objective of transparency. A fellow Shuker said well and what money it is and we certainly support it. Before just one nomotechnical remark or question, we must be aware that what has just been said and we had a situation before we enter the EU where many companies in the majority ownership of the state depend exactly on support. It had to change, something was changing, something more skillful, something happier, something not, we still have several companies in most state-owned property that we can't support even though we need to be careful here. It is not always the support in terms of AZTN which could be interpreted as leading to some deregulation of the competition itself in terms of protection of ownership. If we have a majority or 100% state-owned company that is in difficulty in the restructuring process for sale and if it is necessary to secure financial resources in order to end it and ensure that let me put it this way, a minor loss, then that support may have one greater purpose, which is to protect ownership and the loss of the state itself. Of course, it's very difficult to implement, it's almost impossible, but we had such situations and then it's done through different lending, options and that we're not talking now about what was through HBOR for Borovo, so it's certainly one of those companies that needs to be restructured that need to be privatized first because the state has nothing to produce shoes it's not core business state to provide its citizens with shoes but conditions that they can naturally buy themselves. In fact, what I have here is not technically one question, Article 6 states that the Regulation will be adopted by 1 July 2017. I do not know if it is now material that I have good or has changed, and of course Article 8 immediately states that this law will enter into force except on the day of its adoption. So here we are a little bit in some disrepansion as to the terms of whether it changes that deadline. Before the deadline was... which in this proposal amended 30 days from the date of adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42434	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Churay, for this debate. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Željko Tufekčić, for his explanation and his associate. With this, we have exhausted distinguished colleagues and colleagues of all agenda points for today's day. Tomorrow we will continue with the work of the plenary session at 9.30 a.m. with the agenda Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 122. Thank you again and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session interrupted at 20.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2017-06-28-0.u42435	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on State aid, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 76, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the State Support Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 117 for, 2 abstentions and the law is passed. I see there's a hand in the air for breaks. He's the first respected colleague of Miro Bulj.
