ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.1.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. [[Pause.]] Good morning. The session begins. They ask them to vaginate sit on their escons. [[Pause.]] Let's start this plenary session. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this session. I recall, on the other hand, that Mr Raül Romeva has appointed Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise his parliamentary rights. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and migration policies]] For another group, I inform you that, as a compliment..., in the establishment of the Movement 111/XII, of the Parliament of Catalonia, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, 1,041 people in the Mediterranean have died since the month of generation. [[Ask the Government about the drainage of public resources for the private sector and the social and environmental consequences]] [[310-00224/12]] The first point of the order of the day are the questions with oral answer to the Government. The first question is about the drainage of public resources to the private sector and the social and environmental consequences, formulated for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. The question is posed by the Member of the Commission, Mrs Natialia Sánchez. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.2.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Good morning, Counsellor Damia Calvet. We would like to ask you about the resurrection of the Cercs power plant; a project which seeks to cremate industrial waste to make raw energy and which, in no case, can be called renewable. The Manresan company that has bought the facilities and that intends to convert this plant would generate electricity that is cremating all kinds of industrial waste, waste that, moreover, could be recycled. We know that the Mayor of Junts for Catalonia is supporting it, the project is pending the visit of the Government of Catalonia. Therefore, we ask him: what is the position of the government in relation to the conversion of the Cercs plant into an incinerator? Is it possible they're planting cremating resources that should be recycled? Is it possible to pull this project forward, after the important mobilizations against climate emergency? And I finish: what is the status of the issue with regard to the environmental authorities of this project?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, has the word Mr.Damià Calvet, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.4.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisers, deputies and deputies... honourable Member, thank you for asking me this question. The truth is, there's no plan for us to evaluate, and I want to say it roundly. You're talking about news that came out in the media, but in any case, as the Government of the Generality we don't have any plans to evaluate. There is an idea, from a company that has expressed itself, that has expressed itself publicly, that the newspapers have collected it, but at these times we do not have any plans to evaluate. Let's say that, like the Government of the Generality, we are very proud of the residue management policies that we make, in which..., and in the last or one of the phases of residue management there can be energy value. And that's not what we made up, it's just that it comes from European directives. And let's also say that there is an energy appreciation there, we are rigorous, from an obviously urban point of view, but also environmental. But all that said, to Circles, at this moment there is no plan to evaluate. If you ask me again, I can give you more details.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.6.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I am speaking to you not only about news, but about an open assembly that the mayor of your party has summoned to the same municipality, in which he has reported on the viability of this project and the important interest you have, I insist, the mayor of your party, to bring forward this project. I therefore take advantage of the fact that we are talking about incinerators and the impact they have on the environment, on the environment, on health, to demand it, to ask it, to make it a priority with regard to incinerators and, concretely, on this incinerator, we believe that it is essential that the Government of the Generality, that its department initiates and pulls forward an immediate moratorium on incinerators. It may be that their department, I insist, will, if necessary, re-open this facility and work for the dismantling of the plant, the restoration of the natural environment and work for a plan to dismantle all the incinerators in the country, with the great impact and the important negative externalities that this type of production of black and raw energy has. I insist, a model of energy production based on residue cream has a high index of negative externalities, it produces a huge amount of residues that have a direct impact on the environment and on health and, more importantly, I would add that to this, concretely, I would ask you if you are aware of the advice and the joint venture of the Government that the owner of the company that has this project has a long history of irregularities in the Anti-Fraud Office and that has been investigated in the wake of the macro-operation of the UDEF. Isn't that right, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.7.0	Congresswoman, time's up. To answer again, the counselor has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.8.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. I insist, there is no plan to evaluate. If the Mayor of Cercs does an open assembly to discuss ideas, then, listen, he is in his power. But I insist that in Cercs, at these times, the only one there is a whole set of authorizations from the Ministry of Tanking and Dismantling and, in the case of the Generality, there is only an extinction of the environmental authorization of energy production, the original, there is nothing more. We do not have any paper entered by register, nor informally, that makes us have to position from an administered point of view. I will tell you, and I close Cercs's apartment, that, I repeat, in the case of the waste management chain, the same European directives speak of energy valuation as one of the phases in which it can include, I insist, waste management. The Government of the Generality, through the Agency of Residus, is very clear that it forms part of what is this chain of waste management and that the ciphers, both of production of solid urban waste, as industrial, of energetic valorization and of abocadors make us think that, at these times, there is a series of incinerators that complete its function. But – and this is already more intuition than, say, reflecting on legislation or government action – I have to tell you that this advisor thinks, with his team, that any modernizing policy in the management of the country's waste does not go through incineration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.9.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about digital policy]] [[310-00225/12]] The next question is about digital policy and the formula, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Dimas Gragera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.10.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs. Very good morning. Mr Puigneró, several information assures that his government, through the Cesicat, that kind of CNI coup, could have supported, could have even financed the plans of the CDRs arrested for alleged terrorism. You are the most responsible of that body, so we demand you to explain here and now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.11.0	To answer, the word has the advisor of Digital Policies and Public Administration, Mr. Jordi Puigneró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.12.0	Thank you, President. Member of the Commission, it seems to me that I have already said this personally, some time, I think I have also said it in committee, but I say it here, today, also in his parliamentary office: the Césicate is not the head of the Catalan CNI, to see if it is clear to him. There's no more deaf than the one who doesn't want to listen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.13.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.14.0	We will continue to talk about this in the committee, but, here, explain what I have asked you and do not evade your responsibility in parliamentary control. Look, the truth is that we are no longer surprised at anything about this organism, which is part of the sewers of the process. We have denounced, as active and passive, their participation in the theft of personal data; we have denounced, as active and passive, their espionage scandals, their involvement in the illegal referendum of October One and we insist that it be audited and that this body that has collapsed the judgment number 13 of Barcelona with its corruptes be closed. All this, in the face of the impassivity of the Sánchez government, which does absolutely nothing, in order not to offend its accomplices, the separatists. But, look, I must admit that even we, who know you, who know how far you are able to get, are shocked at this information that links you to people who may even be preparing to storm this Parliament. What will the citizens of Catalonia think when you, here, cheer, applaud and ask for freedom for people who, according to this information, could even be linked with you? Look, it's very serious information that we're talking about. I believe that you, here and now, as I have said, should give explanations, I think you should not avoid the answer to this question because, even if you confirm that, you and your entire government would fall. Please assure us that there is no possibility that this information will be true. If they don't, we, from Citizens, will continue to pursue the truth where it is needed. Not in vain, last week, we have already brought this whole matter before the prosecution to be investigated and, if today you grant us your silence, you will already speak where you have to speak, which is before justice. Explain yourself at once and close already this coup CNI, which serves absolutely nothing but to give coups d'état and to question freedom, security and coexistence in Catalonia. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.15.0	To answer again, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.16.0	The truth is, I'm starting to think it's gotta be true that they're really bad at these things. Listen, look, here you are talking about the digital coup, the coups. Here, the only blows known to the citizens of Catalonia are the fucking blows the police made in Spain in October, two years ago. [[Greetings.]] Certainly, a few blows, a few shots that you haven't yet condemned, as my spokesman, my group president, asked for, the other day, during the session of the dilluns. They have a new opportunity to do it. Look, I think that, in the background, or they have very little knowledge of what the Césicate is, or they have very little knowledge of it... the Césicate is a centre of information security, it's dedicated to ensuring, to protecting the information systems of this country, that's what the Césicate does. But I don't think you have much interest, precisely, in knowing exactly what the Cesicat is doing, because you want to, precisely, is to close it, as you also want, so that other institutions in the country don't serve or are vulnerable, in such a way that they pose or discredit, in this case, what this country is. This is their only interest and, therefore, they act very irresponsiblely as they left for Catalonia if, really, what they want is, precisely, to make this country a leading country, a country that innovates, a country that is in the new digital age. Miri, the Cesicat acts because, in the year, according to the last memories that we have the awareness of the year 2018, they are produced in Catalonia around 200_million cyberattacks. From these 200_millions, eleven_1,000 end up producing some kind of incident in the information networks of the Government of Catalonia. And, from these, a few hundred, they end up producing an incident of a certain gravity, which requires action by technicians and qualified and IT people to solve it. All this is done precisely because, in this new digital age, IT security has been instrumental. And everything you've said about accusations you've made so far, they're absolutely fake news and they're absolutely unfounded.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the management of penal institutions]] [[310-00226/12]] The next question is about the management of penal institutions and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Manuel Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.18.0	Thank you, President. Senyora Capella, a few days ago, was known through the media the poor management of the Lledoners Prison Center by her counseling to seven inmates with pedigrees. Can you assure all Catalans that all Lledoners inmates enjoy the same rights and opportunities?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.19.0	To answer, the word has the counselor of Justicia, the lady Esther Capella. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.20.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. You've asked me, blanket sometimes, that same question. All persons deprived of liberty in Catalonia have the same rights and rights. Listen, you, I don't know if they're usually undocumented or like them, continuously, so stretch the thread of a question that doesn't exist. Keep it up, they're pretty good at it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.21.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.22.0	Look, Mrs. Capella, I saw you didn't answer me. In fact, it seems that the one that does not follow the media is you. I will inform you that there are seven inmates who have a different pedigree, who have cells with eyesight. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In its module it was swept and moved to the most problematic and also have new mattresses, have curtains, television, computer and, officially, lack internet. They also have freedom of movement, while the rest of the prisoners must be at 7.45 a.m. for the count, these seven of Lledoners have express permission to leave and enter their cell whenever they want. Nor do they pass through the detector arch. They have private doctors, up to three have been counted in recent months, and they receive institutional visits of up to fifty_and_eight people in one day– Mr Torra, Mrs Colau, Mr Iglesias, Mrs Rahola, socialist mayors such as those of Sant Joan Despí, Cornellà, Mrs Parlón..., we understand that, in this case, Marlaska looks elsewhere so that his mayors can visit them. But, Mrs. Capella, can you deny that all this information is true? Can You Deny It? The Torra Government and the Sánchez Government deny this, but the prosecution itself has found various abnormal situations and the abnormal presence of non-penitentiary authorities in the centre. The UGT has requested the dismissal of the Assistant Director of Treatment, after jumping to thirty-five people in a waiting room, for a journalist to meet with Mr. Romeva. And yet, you have dispatched the chief of prison services for denouncing favor treatment by your councillor. That's enough and let's be clear. You're not the Tourism Advisor. You are not the Tourism Advisor, nor can that become the Hotel Lledoners, nor your cells into tourist apartments. This is a prison where inmates live together. It is enough to humiliate the inmates, who have to see every day how there are seven prisoners with pedigrees in the « Hotel Lledoners. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.23.0	To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.24.0	Actually, you're, like, an undocumented person. In any case, look, read the Prison Law and Rules and Resolutions, the judicial resolutions in relation to the Catalan prison system. You spoke of one thing... yes, yes, an expedition for insubordination of a public official, because he did not obey an order from his superior. Prisons are security centers. Do you know that? Do you share it? Do you share this with me, that we're holding security centers? So this gentleman has an open expedient because it was insubordinate, he did not respond to an order for a question of security. Therefore, you who all day cry to attend to the law, to obey the law, I assume that you, in this matter, will be at my side – will be at my side. So, I'm telling you, listen to me, you're constantly barging naps and cols, making the big broth, shaking the pot, because you're interested in creating a mind mark that has never been true, it's a mind mark that you want to generate. I will tell you another thing, all the resolutions, absolutely all of them, of the Prison Institutions of the Catalan Administration may be subject to judicial review, by virtue of an appeal of the Ministry of the Prosecutor or of the lawyer for the defence of the Lord or Lord in question, the person deprived of liberty, subject to judicial review. Look, you aim all day if the prosecutor says, if the prosecutor says. Miri, what did the Barcelona prosecutor say? He talked about common prisoners and other prisoners. What does that mean? The memory of the prosecutor's office, unexpectedly, unexpectedly, speaks of questions relating to the Catalan prison system, which does not share anyone in the world, come to see us from the world. Interestingly – curiously – the State Attorney General does not question, does not question the abuse of preventive detention in situations of absolutions of persons who have been two years and longer deprived of liberty. That's what we're talking about. We keep people deprived of liberty who have all the rights and freedoms intact. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.25.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about ensuring the exercise of public rights in public space in a security environment]] [[310-00227/12]] The next question is about the guarantee of the exercise of the fundamental rights to public space in a security environment and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.26.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Do you think public security is essential to ensure the free exercise of public rights and public freedoms? In recent times, especially from the beginning of the day to democracy, there have been many episodes in Catalonia in which it has been difficult to reconcile security and rights with rights and freedoms. President Torra's call to mobilizations after the feeling of cop to democracy, from late 2017, does not make us optimistic about respect. Counselor, how do you understand that the fundamental rights and public freedoms must be safeguarded?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.27.0	To answer the question you have the word the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.28.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Deputy, let's deny them the first of all, the major, that there is no political and partisan interference of the government, the councillor and, expressly, the president of the Generality in a police cos as the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. The first one. The second. You know – and if I don't explain it – that in Catalonia in 2018 we held twelve_ thousand demonstrations and concentrations, of which nine_ thousand were communicated beforehand, as set the law, and three_ thousand did not. That means we've had about a thousand concentrations, demonstrations a month, about thirty-two a day. If you believe that the Squad Ways has not guaranteed the fundamental right to express yourself and manifest yourself freely in this country, it is that you want to distort some numbers and a reality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.29.0	To answer again, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.30.0	Thank you, Counselor. I have the feeling that a little study has run away. Miri..., the free exercise of public rights and freedoms is protected by our democratic order. This protection requires at all times respect for the rights and freedoms of all citizens. When it comes to the exercise of fundamental rights and public freedoms, it is necessary to resolve the clashes of rights that may arise. Do you believe that arbitrarily cutting off principal channels of communication unilaterally is protected by the right to protest or by the right to assembly and demonstration? That Mr. Torra's effort to encourage the CoRs to take the streets and sow chaos after the passing of the sentence against the coup against democracy guarantees the protection of fundamental rights and public freedoms? That harassment, harassment and assault on journalists, such as in the case of Laila Jiménez, are admissible? Attacks denounced by Reporters Without Borders and which occur systematically in many demonstrations, especially separatist demonstrations. Do you believe that the right of demonstration protects the harassment of civilian guard barracks or the Chief of Police, shouting « pim, pam, pum, I didn't have one left? What should be allowed for the continued commission of criminal offences during the development of separatist demonstrations? That the right to protest or the right to assembly and demonstration prevail over the other rights and freedom of persons who want to continue their daily activities in a normal manner? Because if so, counselor, you are not qualified to ensure public safety. If so, you do not defend the fundamental rights and public freedoms of all citizens. If so, counselor, and I'm sorry to tell you, you must resign. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.31.0	There's a new word for the interior advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.32.0	Thank you, President. As I said with all these numbers – the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. S. But of all these manifestations that you have made, I want to say that many do not conform to reality and truth, and I regret that. Just like the one that the diluns did past his spokesman, when he said that Interior did not guarantee the right to manifest itself – that he said it and it was so wide – with a judicial process that was filed, because it was guaranteed the right to manifest itself. It's true that there was an appeal, but from the start, the court filed it. Therefore, it forms part of this report that you believe of falsehoods and unrealities and of those who believe they live in a country that is said to be Matrix – and that is what you say, I'm not saying it – because the reality is the numbers that I have given it. Moreover, I ask her who asked her for her group president, Mrs Roldán, who is responsible for the failed motion of censure, who said to the MPs: "We have to be on the rise today. I noticed he was headed for you. Yes, it's not just today – the dilluns – they do it every day, they're right and right and right, and they don't falsify the truth anymore or attack the Squad Ways, an institution with three hundred years of history and a second more... [[The president removes the microphone's use at the time and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.33.0	Counselor, time is up. Thank you. [[Some applause.]] [[Ask the government how to work with electric companies to fight the poor energy]] [[310-00221/12]] The next question is about the agreements with electric companies to fight the poor energy, formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. Mrs Susanna Segovia asks the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.34.0	Good morning, Counselor. As you probably know, in August, Endesa sent a letter to more than four hundred gatherings saying that she would cut the light of vulnerable families if they did not take 50_percent. From then on, assembly drawings, including Barcelona, with the support of Junts for Cat and Esquerra Republicana and the Socialist Party and Barcelona in Comú, approved a motion..., they approved motions where asked Endesa that you are responsible for this debt. From your government, in the arrangements to be put in place for these energy companies, do you plan to put in place them to take on the 100_per_cent of this debt and make them responsible for these families? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the word "Constellera d'Empresa i Coneixement", Ms. Maria Àngels Chacón, is written. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.36.0	Thank you, President. Member, effectively to the Government we are two departments that are competent to us this matter, the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, in the matter of poor energy, and the Department of Enterprise, which has attributed the competences in signature of agreements and sanctions, so that these sizes are not produced, these sizes, according to the Law 24/2015. From before the summer we have these regular contacts with companies; we are leading from the department, with Councillor El Homrani, as you thought, with municipalist entities, the deputies, Metropolitan Area, Third Sector entities, placards, to collect all the proposals, and it is obvious and obvious that our proposal will be that the sub-administrators assume one hundred_percent of the accumulated debt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.38.0	I'm glad to hear it. Now we hope that this is real, really, in the text of the agreements, because you know what benefits these companies have had in the year 2018? Only between Endesa, Iberdrola i Naturgy, 5.770_million euros of benefits. The benefits of these companies grow thirty-five times faster than the demand for energy. For the last fifteen years, the electric charge has been raised by 78_per_cent. Ten percent of Catalonia's families can't face their bills and have their right to energy. We defend, believe... we ask the Government not to put public resources and the Government of the Government of Catalonia at the expense of this injustice, not to use public resources to help push and increase the benefits of these enterprises. Because, in addition, I assure you, you will not do or do anything about it, to these companies, that will be the least – the least – social return you have to have, what you are obliged to do, because what they are doing is reaping the benefits of millions of dollars from a public right, a common good, such as water, such as energy. But you're telling me this and I really have some doubts, because at least we know that there's a sustainable and socially responsible public company since one year ago, like Barcelona Energia, that you're looking for them to sign a deal, and there's no way. Now perhaps it turns out that after so long they will sign these agreements and, moreover, they will include this, but it must be heard that we have doubts, we have doubts because, until now, we have not seen a will, we have not seen a courage. Does your government also intend to take the necessary steps to set up a public energy operator to guarantee, precisely, these rights and what are you putting in place for sustainable energy? Will they go from words to facts, when they talk about transition and climate emergence? Counselor, we don't believe it. So far we haven't seen an answer. So soon we see it, and so much good as it is brave, so much good and really these companies take on the cent_per_cent of this debt. We'll wait and follow him very closely. (Applause.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.39.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer again, you have the word the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.40.0	Thank you. Congresswoman, I think I've been very clear. When we say that we propose that these subcontractors pay the cent_per_cent is that we are proposing it. I would like to refer you to the fact that we are using all the resources we have, and I would like to remind you that the law provides for the signature of agreements. The word 'convenient' means an agreement, defining pacts. So we don't have the force to force businesses. Our position is very clear. Here the law spoke of "signature of agreements; the law at the end of the day will be forced, the subcontractors will be obliged. Therefore, let's use the resources we have, try to close these arrangements. I repeat again: we are two departments that we are working on. We have the title, from the Department of Enterprise, for the signature of these agreements, but obviously which pivots, which leads, as is normal, on issues of poor energy, is the advice of the Councillor El Homrani. Let's work together. Why didn't you sign an agreement – you in fact – with this operator? So, because there's a lot of money that, as you say, has to be paid, it has to be paid by the Public Administration. Here it is, in this amount of money... you're contradicting yourself. From one side I am told: "You can't put public money in front of the subcontractors to pay for this accumulated debt. And now he says to me: "Put your public money so that there are no such things. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. That's what you're afraid we'll have to clarify. At the convention celebration there is always an import, the amount that was negotiated. What we are doing now is that these amounts do not fall on the most vulnerable citizens, but rather fall on the sub-ministrative enterprises.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the situation of General Cable plants in Manlleu and Montcada and Reixac]] [[310-00220/12]] The next question is about the situation of General Cable plants in Manlleu and Montcada and Reixac. I ask the question, on behalf of the Socialists Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marta Moreta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.42.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, today we are joined here in Parliament by the workers and workers of the company Prysmian of the plants of Manlleu and Montcada, a giant of the cable industry, an Italian multinational that has announced that it intends to take out all its workers, and that it will leave in a situation of extreme complexity six-hundred families of Catalonia. Yesterday, curiously, counselor, he took over the works councils of the plants of Manlleu and Montcada, no more or less than two weeks later than the announcement of the tank. How is it, counselor, that you did not visit the two plants on the first day, to give support to the workers of General Cable de Manlleu and Montcada? How come he didn't have time to make a simple puddle on Twitter or make some public statements to position himself and worry about it? And he didn't just make a roll, but there wasn't a public position of the government. I mean, we didn't count on the president anymore, but you, Mr. Counselor, haven't opened your mouth yet, and the Business Counselor either. Head of the Delegation of the Government of Central Catalonia. You're Treball's advisor. Remember? Don't you worry about the destruction of all these jobs? What do you think you're doing for our country's industry? What actions had to be completed to put an end to this shutdown?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer the question there is now the word the Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families, Lord Chakir El Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.44.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Deputy Moreta..., I would also like to greet the representatives of the Prysmian business committee in Manlleu and Montcada, with whom we met in the department yesterday. I understand we have a different view of politics. I get it. I don't understand politics as a pile, I don't understand it as a pile; I understand it as a job, I understand it as a search for solutions around which now directly affects more than 486 people, from the centers of Manlleu and Montcada. I understand that what we have to do, and that's what we did yesterday, is listen to the negotiations and align strategies, align strategies around a reality that is very complex. One company, Prysmian, has decided that it wants to lock two work centres in Catalonia, with a direct impact on more than 486 workers but indirectly more than two_ thousand. What have we done? What have we granted? One, we share the key element. The key element is the defense of work places, and the defense of industrial work places. We have been working together with the Enterprise Department at a technical meeting on the needs of workers' representatives, around the sector and how the sector and the industrial sector works. And we will continue to work on the hope that this regulatory expedition will enter, that it has not yet entered, and be able to value with concreteness the regulatory expedition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.46.0	Thank you, President. As always, no government position, not just stacked. That's right, yesterday he did make a puddle; yesterday, yes. Are they also working with some investor group because the company is continuing in its work places? What actions will be carried out to avoid all these accompaniments? Do you know the impact of the closure of the Cordo, the name for which the company is known, which is the largest in the population, on Manlleu? Are you aware of the situation in which these families and the villages of Manlleu and Montcada will remain? Not to talk about all the companies that work indirectly with the two plants, on issues of maintenance, clean services, transporters... What measures will they take to save the industrial fabric of these two Catalan cities? Counselor, concrete. That's what he needs, concretely, that he never does. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.47.0	To answer the word again the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.48.0	Look, Congresswoman, we don't do what we do, every election, promise to revoke labor reforms and return the administrative authority of a regulator – now they've also promised it again – but when we're in power, don't do it, that's what the Spanish Socialist Party has done for the last five years. I think it is a shame that a party that has had the opportunity to return the administrative authority of the regulators, with which we would have the clearest tool to defend the working places of Manlleu and Montcada, have the bar to talk about plulades, have the bar to say "concrete", have the bar to take pictures with the workers and workers, without having done what they promised, year back, and that they are now, curiously, in elections, re-promising and will not fulfill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.49.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the construction of the Tresponts tunnel to the C-14 road]] [[310-00222/12]] The next question is about the construction of the Tresponts tunnel to the C-14 road. The question is raised, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, by Mr Francesc Viaplana. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.50.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Calvet, the exits of the valleys of the Pyrenees, in its majority, cross a congost. In the case of the Noguera Ribagorçana, Mont-rebei ; in the Noguera Pallaresa, Collegats, and in the case of the Secret, Tresponts. This last one gives its name to the bridge built by Saint Ermengol, some very important and well-advanced works for the time, which allowed this part of Pirinius to be connected to the plane. Today I still feel a real need, and it is already more urgent than ever, to improve communications to the Pyrenees, in general. The transversal communication of the valleys is still on. He mentioned apart from merit the shameless national 260, but a historical claim to the Alt Urgell has always been to ensure security in this congost, the Tresponts, especially because of the detachments. At the end of June 2017, road C-14, at the height of the Tresponts congost, were awarded the works of conditioning and improvement of safety, for an import of 35,4_million euros. With this import is the most important work that its consultancy has had to end from 2011 until the present day. The action is concrete with the construction of a 1,3_kilometer tunnel, as well as the extension of the sidewalk in the contained trams. The works, as announced, began at the end of the same year and have developed without great setbacks. At the end of August we were able to watch the tunnel climb, a day when everyone was excited to be able to prove how the work was progressing with the planned calendar. At the end of a few days, however, the drilling works of the evacuation tunnels of the Tresponts tunnel were paralyzed. The motivation was due to economic discrepancies between the company Obras Subterraneas SA, in charge of these jobs, and the contracting UTE, formed by Actiona and Copcisa. First of all, the temporary union of entrepreneurs announced that it is already counting on a new company to complete the drilling tasks, and that in the coming weeks this part of the project will be reactivated. In view of the fact that the contract provides for penalties to be imposed on the companies responsible if there are delays in the execution of the work, counsel, do you believe that the works will be completed by the end of 2020, that is to say, on schedule? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question has the word Mr. Damià Calvet, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.52.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Mr. Deputy, thank you very much for asking this oral question to this councillor about this very important work for the basic road network of the country, a country that we want to coordinate and for which good communication is essential. And indeed, communications with the valleys of the Pyrenees have always had many and many conditions, among others for the orography. You quoted the different cols and the different steps we have to access the vales, and made a mention apart – that I more than a mention apart from turning it into central – to the shameful situation of the national 260, an infrastructure of the State that carries years of delay in any, in almost any action that is pending. In any case, I told him that we were very pleased that he asked us this question because, indeed, this work meant an important effort of the Government of the Generality and, if I may, of the legitimate adviser of the Department of Territory and Sustainability, of friend Josep Rull, who made a personal bet to prioritise this work over others who are on the list but who, for the economic conditions and assumptions that we have, so surely, will start further ahead. In any case, Councillor Rull, very in contact with the territory, also wanted to remember Mayor Albert Batalla, or you yourself, other representatives of the territory, put it as a priority. Priority for various concepts. One is for greater comfort and major, you said, security at C-14, huh? We're not talking so much about unlocking a few minutes of the clock, we want sustainable and secure mobility, but above all comfort and security. And so, yes, we currently have the most important work that the Government of the Generality is doing to the Department of Territories, 35_million euros, to the C-14, this tunnel of 1,3_kilometres, which is advancing with normality. And his concrete question, yes, the works will be finished when he touches, which is at the end of 2020. And yes, indeed, there was a situation that we managed, which is that between the contractor and a subcontractor there was a discrepancy between them and they terminated the contract. The contractor has already found a new company to carry out these voladures of the auxiliary gallery. But the work hasn't been over for a day. Despite the intoxications that some have wanted to pose, social and media pressure, the work has not been put to rest for a day, and the work will end when it touches.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.53.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.54.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.55.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the violation of civil and political rights]] [[310-00223/12]] The next question is about the violation of civil and political rights, and the formula, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Bernat Sole. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.56.0	Thank you, President. Vice President Aragonès, the U of October two years ago, thousands of people came out of their homes to use such a fundamental right in any democratic system as the right to vote and the right to citizen participation. Unfortunately, the police charges of the same day assumed that 1,083 people had to be treated for medical services, including 214 for the Emergence Service and 777 in 38 hospitals and 54 in primary care centres. Subsequently, the application of Article 155 involved the cessation of a whole legitimate government and 234 public workers, the suppression of bodies, administrative units, bodies and delegations abroad, the de facto intervention of all departments of the Generality, the blocking of policies of direct application as important for citizens as the Universal Health Law, the dissolution of a democratically elected parliament and, consequently, the convening of totally imposed elections. On the other hand, the judicial actions against the self-determination referendum involved an allusion of repression which, today, counts with more than a hundred people with open judicial proceedings, with pre-emptive undertakings, exiles, pending prosecutions and violations of rights as basic as the presumption of innocence. And to all this, with the threat of a new application of a 155 converted into the electoral campaign element of some elections that prove, other times, the inability of the Spanish State to build a political project. With all these precedents, with the ever peaceful responses of a country that feels persecuted and with the imminent judgment of the judiciary against the two social leaders, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez; the President of the Parliament, Carme Forcadell; Vice-President Junqueras and the advisers and advisers of the Government of the moment, what does the Government of the Generality value for these facts and what is their position before a Catalan society that has always peacefully responded, a government of the State unable to respond to the conflict through politics and international institutions that every time they question the Spanish State lacks guarantees in the individual and collective rights of individuals?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.58.0	Thank you very much, President. President, deputies, deputies, advisers, advisers. Good morning, October New, Congressman. Today is October New, National Day of the Valencian Country, and therefore allow me to use... [[applause]] This answer to congratulate the Valencians and the Valencians, as I have been able to do with my counterpart of the Valencian government, on occasion of his national day. In response to his question, it is clear that we are faced with an absolutely abnormal situation, in which justice is intended to replace the necessary policy to resolve disputes that are of a political nature, in which the judiciary has been used in what it refers to, in the conflict between Catalonia and the State, has been used politically to pursue some ideas. The next example: yesterday, the Supreme Court denies itself, the same court that raised a preliminary question to the Court of Justice of the European Union to know whether one of the trials held in that room, therefore, had immunity or not, has already decided that it cannot be expected and that it does not care, it does not matter, whether its trials have immunity or not. It is a violation of their rights, not only the rights of Oriol Junqueras but also that it adds to the violation of the rights of voters of all those elected deputies; the same Oriol Junqueras, but also Carles Puigdemont and Toni Comín, who see how they could not take possession of their bait. Before a sentence, which we hope will remain absolute, but there are also indications that it will be condemned, the Government will express its support and solidarity with all the reprisals and reprisals of the U of October, and we will act with a long and long look, betting on negotiation and dialogue, are aware that ideas will not be silenced by judgment, that they cannot be closed to the prison, that by much repression, by much persecution we will not give up our objectives, we will continue to work for the Catalan Republic and for the right to self-determination as we are going to achieve it. And that's 155 threats, that's repression threats to get four votes. That's not political, that's not conflict resolution. We have this unequivocal will to speak, to dialogue, to do politics, to eliminate repression and to turn politics into a political conflict, and that means that the people decided to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.59.0	President, time is running out. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] [[Asks the Government about actions and policies to boost the land's routing culture]] [[310-00228/12]] The next question is about actions and policies to boost the region's Rau culture, and the formula, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mr Francesc Ten. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.60.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. The Vice President referred to it today, Diada Nacional del País Valencia. Yesterday also twelve years ago, Quim Monzó made a famous inaugural speech to the Frankfurt Fira, which I recommend that the rescultin, if they have not, above all, made to some more than others. Counselor, we are aware that the National Theatre of Catalonia has re-established some proposals that unfortunately, from years of crisis and difficulty, had been put up with by serious presuppositional problems. We are talking about the campaign, or the cycle, or the program named «The TNC goes on tour, which, to sum up, series those mountains or works of production own of the National Theatre of Catalonia that are made available, basically, of the public system of scenic and musical equipments to go on tour. We are also connoisseurs, counselor, of his willingness to speak and to pull forward, as far as possible, and we hope that the assumptions will make it very possible for us, to pull forward the opportunities to socialize as much culture as possible for the people and the territories of Catalonia. The social return of culture has been a motive for questioning in this hemisphere and is one of the battle horses of its department. We have said it and we have repeated it: culture as an instrument of social cohesion and territorial cohesion; or, in other words, the maximum of cultural opportunities for the maximum number of people and territories in Catalonia. We want to ask you, therefore, about this, about which programs, projects, plans or actions in the style of this of "The TNC has planned the Department of Culture, already in its own production or already carried out with the necessary or essential help, subsidy or collaboration of the department that you direct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.61.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question you have the word Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Maria Àngela Vilallonga. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.62.0	Thank you very much, President. President, Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors... Many thanks, Mr Francesc Ten, for asking me this question, to give the opportunity to the Councillor of Culture to explain once more what you have already said very well, that culture is a basic right of the city, that this government bets to carry the culture of the territory and that, in this case, we have made it explicit with this tour of the National Theatre of Catalonia that it did more than two years that it could not do. This year we managed to complete this campaign, "The TNC goes out on tour, which will make a turn through twenty-seven Catalan cities. There will be more than thirty performances and there will be two plays, one of large format, which will open tomorrow at the TNC. I invite you all to see this work, La Rambla de les Floristes, by Josep Maria de Sagarra. This is one of the works that will carry rowing from the territory, and for example cities like Figueres, Manresa, Tortosa, Sant Cugat, Badalona will be able to see this work in their theaters. The other work that is carried is of small format; small format not because it is a smaller work but it is done with a smaller format, and it is a theatrical adaptation of the work Solitude, by Catherine Albert, Victor Català. And there are three cities that carry all two works. That makes us especially happy. Well, that's good news for culture, but there are more cultural actions in the territory. Just this week the Mediterranean Fire opens in Manresa. I also invite everyone to watch this fire, to value our Mediterranean arrangements. Sardenya is the focus invited on this occasion. This next week also opens the National Poetry Festival in Sant Cugat, which will also be one of the places where one of the TNC's works will go. I also invite everyone to watch during this month all the poetry recitals that are fan of different Sant Cugat rights. But there is also another activity that we especially like, which is the Athenian documentary: then freedom...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.63.0	Counselor, time is up. [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about Climate Emergency]] [[310-00229/12]] The next question is about the climate emergency and the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.64.0	Thank you. Good morning, President. Good morning, Counselor. The 1988 United Nations and the World Meteorological Organization created the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, to search for climate behavior. It was the first report only two years later. And two years later the United Nations made the Earth Summit in Rio, thus reinforcing the scientific evidence that there is about the impact of human activity on the behaviour of the climate. From this around thirty years ago, thirty years ago we changed to talking about climate change, starting to talk about climate crisis, and starting to talk about climate emergence. I believe that this is one more of the findings that we are not doing enough, one more of the findings that we are failing, that today we are not only putting our future in danger, but we are also putting our present in danger. Part of the good news comes from society, a society that has a clearer, more and more demanding awareness every day, that civil society is making itself felt as much in spaces of debate as in mobilizations, that is more demanding to institutions, asking governments for actions that are clear, that are strong, that are urgent. We have seen it in demonstrations, not just Fridays for Future, but also from European capitals with peaceful demonstrations, and we also see it with awareness, behaviour changes, actions and acceptance of restrictions coming from the hands of public policies. But we know that political action, that public action is absolutely essential. We know that including if we go much further than the Paris Accord, that many doubt that we can absolve it..., but it is that including if we go much further than that it is only by reversing the effects, but certainly as much as we can encourage them. If the fem temperature that only grows two degrees, which would be in the Paris accords, the impact at the end of the century would be the rise of the sea level in more than fifty centimetres, the probability that the Arctic was completely deglaçed by over 80 per cent, increasing the frequency of extreme heat, extreme rain, hundreds of millions of people without water and, therefore, a devastating effect on life as we know it and on inequality. We know that the government is taking action, we know that the government will prioritize the fight against climate change in the presuppositions, we know that you were at the New York summit last week...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.65.0	Congresswoman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.66.0	...and we want you to explain to us... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.67.0	To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.68.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs..., honourable Member, many thanks for putting the climate emergency back on the table, that we have a global, planetary repte, that we in Catalonia are very clear, that we like to hear that we are very clear, and that effectively from the government we act in order to reverse, to be able to mitigate and adapt all the effects of the climate change, beyond the climate change, of this climate emergency situation. And you highlighted this historical role of the Administration, and so much of Catalonia, in which is the positioning on the climate change. This is what I want to subrate. Indeed, the country's commitment to everything that refers to climate change goes from the moon. It was the Summit of the Earth of Rio, which celebrated the year 92. One year before, the year 91, the Government of the Generality, said, created the Department of Environment. We were the first, some of the first in southern Europe, precisely to advance to all the concepts of sustainability that came, right? Or you have also mentioned these reports, these reports that were then made. So the Government of the Generalitat had the ambition to make these same reports on a Catalan scale. Therefore, we are very aware that, say, the management of climate change is global, but that we are close to dealing with this raccoon of the world that is said to be Catalonia. The better we do, the more we can contribute to this climate change mitigation and adaptation. And we have effectively declared, in this line of compromise, the climate emergence. The government has approved a whole package of climate action measures, such as now, so, all the momentum for the circular economy, energy transition or decarbonisation of mobility. These are the three great pillars of which we understand as fighting the climate change, acting before the climate emergence. And yes, we actually went to the summit, to this Climate Summit, in New York, because we're always looking to go where we're talking at the planetary level of these reptes. We are very attentive and have as reference the objectives of sustainable development, the objectives, but in this department close to us above all deal with the '11, the urban agenda– we go to everything that represents discussion, international debate on the urban agenda–, and the 13, climate action. We go where we correspond, not even as we are – we get there, we get to go as we are – but we go as far as we participate in forums of local and regional governments, and there we expose – and we are an example for many subnational governments of the world – what we do in Catalonia and also listen to to do better.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.69.0	Counselor, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.70.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.71.0	Thank you. After the questions to the Government, let's go to the questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the statements in interviews in communication media where he says he will open arrests]] [[317-00129/12]] The first question is the formula on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia deputy Alejandro Fernández. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.72.0	Thank you very much, President. Even in three different interviews in recent times you have pointed out, I quote: "I will open the prisons if necessary and put it to the vote of the Parliament of Catalonia. We are in the Parliament of Catalonia and I would therefore like to ask you three questions on this. What specific parliamentary instrument do you propose to put this question to the vote? Two, would that eventual opening of Catalan prisons be global for all prisoners or selective for just one in particular? And three, if selective, have these prisoners expressed their agreement that this question should be put to the vote of Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.73.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.74.0	Yes, honourable Member, I am sorry to ask you where you read these interviews, because I never said I would open Catalan prisons. I have always said that before the court and the verdicts of this court, indeed, we would make a proposal to the Parliament of Catalonia, that it is the sovereignty of the Catalan people and that it is the people who will have to take the questions that they are approaching. But, I insist, they're asking for a lot of applause about this extreme because I never said that. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.75.0	To answer the question, the deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.76.0	Yes; thank you, President. « Torra will ask Parliament to open prisons if they are convicted. This is a holder of various interviews he has raised. He said that he would put it to the vote in Parliament. I'll be right back. [[Widow's remorse.]] May I, please?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.77.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.78.0	Allow me. You are president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which is a very serious thing. He can't behave like a teenager who says what's going on in his head in the interviews and then doesn't want to clarify what's going on in Parliament. You have said that, and therefore we are in Parliament, and you have spoken of a vote in Parliament, and I find myself under an obligation to repeat the same three questions to you. One, what specific parliamentary instrument would you put to the vote on this question? Two, would such eventual opening of Catalan prisons apply globally or only to specific prisoners? Three, if selective, have these prisoners expressed their agreement to put that question to the vote? It was you who in the interviews recklessly put this issue on the table. I would remind you that under Article 165 of Parliament you have an obligation to reply to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.79.0	To answer the question, again the paragraph the President of the Generalitat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.80.0	I'm the one that, Mr. Congressman... we've been through some surrealistic moments, huh? In this room, it's that now we're living a kafkià moment, if I may, because it's that you can't quote an interview at a time when I've said what you're attributing to me that I've said. So, it's just that you guys are doing imaginary stories, and you're just giving them to us, pam! , this way or by any means already. Then we see ourselves in the obligation to defend ourselves from lies that you never stop repeating to us. Jo... say'my journalist, so he gave me this interview and then I'll be able to answer it, huh? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.81.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the increase of employment regulation shippers]] [[317-00131/12]] The following question asks the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, the deputy Mrs Marta Ribas. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.82.0	President, what the government intends to do ahead of the worrying rise of Eros, especially what is causing the plant closure of the Prysmian Group, in Manlleu and Montcada and Reixac.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.83.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.84.0	Yes, Congresswoman, about this last extreme in concrete I think that the answers of the Councillor of Treball have been very clear, and as we are working from the same moment... Certainly, we are concerned about these announcements of EROs that are beginning to know each other and that are being published. We are also concerned, if I may, not only about what we can pass to Catalonia, we are concerned about what we can pass to the world level. Yesterday there were some precise statements of the International Monetary Fund, in which it placed the hard point, huh? , in which world trade can be found from then on. We maintain our expectations of 2_per_cent growth in Catalonia, which would place us in a stable, solid, mature, robust economy, in order to face these moments. But I share that concern with you, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.85.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.86.0	Yes, President, the global context really doesn't help. We are approaching a second wave of a crisis that has been going on for years, because there are a lot of people, most of this country, who still haven't come out. And what we think is being decided at these times is who's gonna pay for the broken dishes this time, this time, this second time, if they're gonna be down again, and we're gonna fight 'cause it's not like that. In the case of Montcada and Manlleu, we are concerned about the five hundred people, workers, workers directly affected. But not just them and them, we worry about the families that depend on these subs, we worry about the 2,500 people, indirect workers, who can be affected and the territorial imbalance that is produced if they are tanked these plants. But we are also concerned about the consequence of this country's loss of sovereignty, which implies that we are not acting in compliance with problems like this, that there is no industrial policy, for digitisation, for the just economic transition, that we are not converted..., that we are basically a land for the people of northern Europe. What is happening here is not happening in other developed countries of the rest of Europe, because this is not an inevitable meteorological phenomenon, it has political responsibility. The case of Montcada, the case of Manlleu, much as Mrs Budó says, as the spokesman of the Government, is not a lost ERO, it is not for a business purchase operation, which was two years ago, it is because there are laws that allow closing without real justification and it is because the Government of Catalonia is not implementing effective industrial policy. There are those responsible for a nasty labor reform that was approved by the People's Party with Convergence and Union at that time, and for a PSOE that is not repealing it and that is posing at the expense of multinationals and not workers. There are responsible for a government in Catalonia that does not govern the market, even though it has industrial planning skills, which is not complete with the National Industrial Plan agreed with the unions and employers. Finish..., finish. We have a government of Spain that removes these labor reforms, which is at the side of workers and workers, that does not say one thing in the campaign and does another when it is later in the government. We need a government of the Generality that takes the challenge of making a brave industrial policy, that governs a fair economic transition and processes of digitization and we need to... (The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the speaker and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.87.0	Congresswoman, time's up. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.88.0	To answer, again the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.89.0	As the advisor explained earlier in the oral reply, we met with the representatives of the affected committees and unions yesterday – I too would like to greet their representatives if they are here. Waiting to see if the regulation consignment comes in and what conditions it does, we wanted to know firsthand the information and the needs of the workers. Since the government we have offered accompanying to defend the places of work, especially the places of work in the industrial field, which are very important to the regions of Osona and Vallesos, certainly. And with the workers, both Montcada and Reixac and Manlleu, with whom we spoke yesterday, we share a key element that is the defense of work places, and especially, work places in the industrial sphere. That is why the National Pact for Industry, a pact that we are completing. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, sir, a pact we're making, and we're making in the percentages we're making. That is why the projects of the "Living Country, because we want a country that is balanced, territorially balanced; we care as long as the High Land, the High Urgell or Osona continue to trade where they can develop their cities in full and, therefore, all the way there has to be industry, there has to be all the sectors in order to be able to pull forward. That is why this important initiative too. That's why the National Covenant for the Knowledge Society, because without the magic triangle or the virtuoso circle of universities, companies and research centers we won't get out of it either. And we are very concerned, and I think this is a very interesting reflection that we should discuss the whole chamber, the international situation. Obviously, an open economy like ours is an economy that can have a major impact, and that's why we're working. That's why there's a Brexit office, that's why all the studies are being developed to see how this can affect us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.90.0	President, time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.91.0	And we're working on all this. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.92.0	Thank you. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the government's forecasts to guarantee everyone's rights before the planned mobilizations on the basis of the knowledge of the court's judgment on the independence process]] [[317-00130/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, Mr Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.93.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Generality, I make a small introduction to the question that I will ask you later, but today a group of professionals who develop their information tasks in this house are demanding a compromise from all of us in favour of freedom of information and the safety of professionals who cover events at times tumultuaris, demonstrations or other incidents. Reporters Without Borders tells us that in the last two years there have been half a hundred, some fifty attacks on information professionals. And I think it's a good time because we all commit ourselves not only to our actions, but also to our speech and our attitude that professionals can fully develop their work without their physical integrity. And that goes to the end of the question I wanted to ask you. As you know, there will probably be a Supreme Court ruling and various entities and a union have called for various acts of protest. And what I wanted to know is who his government's predictions are to complete with the rights of everyone, is to say, the rights of demonstration, of assembly, of free expression, that are perfectly suited for our Constitution, but also the rights of people who want to fight, go to work without participating in these activities. And I'd like to know who the government's forecasts are to respect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.94.0	To answer the question, the President of the Generalitat has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.95.0	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Certainly, I think we share the whole chamber that press freedom, freedom of information, freedom of expression are freedoms that must be respected with all consequences and with all security. I said..., before – I'm sorry –, before entering the hemicicle, I also had the opportunity to share a room with the press companions, so I said: press freedom with security so you can do your job. Obviously, it is obvious; therefore, we condemn any – any – attack that could have been made to any informant, any reporter who is doing his journalistic exercise. [[Greetings.]] And that's for anyone – for anyone, huh? Now we've had one last case, I remember Jordi Borràs cases, etc. I'd appreciate it if these convictions were always for any attack on any journalist. And in the same line, I would like to say to you that, as the Councillor of the Interior has also explained, and has posed to me seem to be quite eloquent figures of the thousands of demonstrations that are taking place in this country and of the security that has taken place in these demonstrations. I think that we are lucky enough to have a national democratic police that compromises with civil values, with the values of human rights and that, therefore, both the police and a committed and active citizenry are very aware of the rights that each has and the rights that each has at these times.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.96.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.97.0	Thank you, President. Most honourable President, I thank you for your words, but you will understand that our question is not casual. You've spread out to call for mobilization, you've spread out to talk about confrontation, you're the one who said "squeeze," "squeeze," "squeeze," "squeeze," "squeeze," "squeeze," "squeeze," "calling the most mobilised sectors – some would say more radical. I have what I would like, if it is possible, is that the same conflict with which you speak in favour of certain mobilisations can also be done in defence of the rights of all citizens, of those who are seeking to mobilize and of those who do not. I believe that we have, at least in our group, complete confidence in the Squadron's Cosos de Mossos, until today we have read carefully, with interest, and coincidentally, the article that Councillor Buch has published in La Vanguardia. But we would be pleased, President, that you have sometimes shown a certain degree of respect for the pocket of the Squadron Mosses, which can be expressed today with greater force.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.98.0	To answer, again the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.99.0	I've never detected this fryer. I in this chamber, moreover, have given support to the Mossos d'Esquadra as the Catalan national police, and I have witnessed numerous police acts. I remember, on the first anniversary of August 17th, having visited a series of commissariats in which their movements had been directly involved, and it allowed me to know far more about what can be punctual moments of the movements, that daily, routine work that allows us to live free and secure – free and secure. And, therefore, what I can assure you is that in this country it will respect the freedom of all and the rights of all, which has not happened, because we have two social leaders, Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart, in prison simply to appeal to the right to manifest and to the right to concentrate. That didn't happen. Recorder. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.100.0	Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about how the government faces the threats posed by the Spanish unit to the rights of the citizens.]] [[317-00132/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Republicà, Mrs Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.101.0	Good morning, everybody. President, tough days are coming. Finding the evidence is not surmounting, because it is now and will be difficult. And we'll have to be strong enough to answer it, despite the sound of these last few days. We say so, it will take an institutional, legal, social and international response, and know all of us up before a feeling that it will only be fair if it is absolute, but it will not be. And I doubt we're wrong. The feeling will be revenge, it will be hard, because they want us to slip to all levels. Actually, it's been days since they rang threatening bells, politically, too. They want to flush us around, on a permanent warning, in case you dare to defend the civil and political rights that we want for everyone; they want to criminalize the right to protest, the right to be independent. And moving on to the feeling, it's already gotten up these last few days. The government in function of the PSOE, the government in function of the PSC kept it repressed as an argumental thread, 155 as a modus vivendi against dissent, without realizing that applying 155 is to launch it against all Catalans, not only against the independenceists, but against all inclusive PSC voters. If applying the 155 two years ago was an aberration, to set it up now, lords of the PSC, after the irresponsibility to engage us another time in elections, with a senate in function, went beyond what defended Fraga in full constitutional debate, perhaps even anticipating 78. And if it happens grinyola in the mouth of many experts, innovem: Law of National Security. He's not coming from here, is he? I am told by the leaders of the PSOE these past few days, and if they say so, they say so, you, lords and lords of the PSC, despite the elegance, you are under threat before democracy if you do not untangle it clearly. Open your eyes, there are more options than repressing. But why? Why does the PSOE only propose repression? Keep up and talk about where we're playing, political women from the courts for a political solution. Do you dare? I'd say no. How long are you gonna turn the people's desk? President, how does the government face the threats of those who do not hesitate to put the unit of Spain before the rights of the citizenry?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.102.0	Congresswoman, time's up. Thank you. To make the answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.103.0	Yes; thank you, honourable Member. I think with firmness, with serenity, with responsibility, with determination and above all never coming out of what made us strong to get here, which is the way..., the only way possible, which is the way of the vote and the word. This is the formula that this government will face these days. I insist, firm, serene, responsibility, determination, vote and sentence. Here I think there is the great consensus of Catalan society, those great consensuss of 80_per_cent. Also the other day, Mrs. Albiach made a very interesting joke about 80_percent of the consensus, and in which she fully agreed. But what are we on the other side, ever since, from the first moment this country decides that its solution is to put the right to self-determination on the table and vote and decide its future? You figured out where we might be if that reference was made, didn't you? A democratic referendum in which we voted, we knew whether there was a majority or not enough to bring about Catalonia's independence, and that's it. So, we found ourselves with this panorama of prisoners, exiles, repression and the permanent threat. And you're right, the threat is permanent. It is the threat of 155; day yes, day we are also listening from all the Spanish parties – almost all of them – so the permanent threat about 155. But that doesn't have to change the least of us, does it? I think these great concepts, these great principles that have moved us from the beginning, are still valid. Look, I from the first investment speech have always been defending the same; I have been defending democracy, I have been defending human rights and I have been defending the right to self-determination. These are the axes where the great social majority of this country is moving. And I know the President of the Generality, but this is the Parliament of Catalonia, where there is the representation of Catalans. And, therefore, it will be the Parliament of Catalonia and it will be its legitimate representatives who, before a direct feeling, who is the hardest clumsy one there can be against living together in Catalonia if it is not absolute, before that feeling, this chamber will have to make a decision, which I hope will stand out in these three great principles of the exercise of the right of self-determination, democracy and human rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.104.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about his position before the nine repressive vestments of the State]] [[317-00133/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, M.Eduard Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.105.0	President Torra, these days we have experienced the general policy debate and a motion of censure. In one of the proposals of the groups that we support to his Government have rejected the majority support of this chamber, a solid and well stopped support, and in the other, just thirty-six hours ago, his presidency won the debate. You have not been strengthened, President, because the Roldán formula of not respecting Parliament and turning it into a three-track circus has suffered a severe setback in the motion of censure debate. The path, therefore, is clear: democracy and a political action bitter of ethics and civilism have more strength than the topics that hold it without rigor and without shame. And we must congratulate each other, dial and expand to jump the wall of non-political and poor education. But while in Catalonia we claim politics, in Spain President Sánchez makes Rajoy and he does everything to 155 and he does everything by not doing anything at all. In the band, the prosecutor wanted to be more temporary for the political prisoners of the U d'Octubre; in the band, the lady Cunillera is delighted to have known herself as she gets reinforcements from Civil Guard and national police as if the State wanted to repeat the weakness of '' to them. I the Electoral Board, ah, the Electoral Board! That tells us that we don't have a word for each thing anymore, as if by writing words we can silence reality. As much as imposing silence, silence, ladies and gentlemen, it's assiduous. In the Spanish State there have been political and exiles; much as I take the censor's weavers, the Council for the Republic is the Council for the Republic. They're disbanded from a short state, President. But while the world is watching us, and the Council of Europe is investigating the growing phenomenon of elected representatives processed in Turkey and processed in Spain. Spanish with Turkey, Sanchez with Erdogan, what things we have to see, Mr President. President, if a democracy acts as an authoritarian state, it is not a democracy. And in Catalonia we want a future for ourselves, just and full of freedom. President, what's his capture before the new crackdown? President, to hear from the U of October, why don't you guys want to talk? Why don't they ever have enough? Why do they want to do us for? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.106.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.107.0	Yes, sir, thank you very much. Many thanks to most of the chamber for these two days of debate, both the debate of the state of the nation and the motion of censure. I think that, indeed, it shows that there is a parliamentary standstill, that there is a majority of Parliament to push forward the country project that we have all marked. The truth is that the failed motion of censure, moreover, has overcome some memories that seemed insurmountable, I mean: no motion of censure had ever been rejected with as much force as the latter, for example. They will also allow us, therefore, to actually, as you wish..., and now you say that the Central Electoral Board has banned a whole series of words from us; I also imagine that the Central Electoral Board will compensate us for this day of electoral campaign of dilluns, and therefore I assume that we will have the opportunity, all folded, to be compensated for what happened here dilluns. In any case, from your question, it does seem to me very relevant to the point you raised about the concern that exists in Europe – the Council of Europe, the Committee of Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe –..., approving this working document, eh? , this beginning of procedure, which may end up being voted for by the House, on the persecution of Kurds and Catalans for Turkey and Spain respectively, for their political persecution. And this is an essential issue. I, at the last conference I made in Madrid, asked..., the conference was around one question: how much democracy is it able to assume the Spanish State? That is to say, to what extent the political dissent between the Spanish State is accepted by the State in a democratic way, without having to listen to repression, without having to listen to quarrels, to constant threats, to the application of 155. That's the big debate that should be made in Spain straight away, to open up to the more advanced democracies, huh? and say: 'Listen to me, we are willing to accept all democracy; we are willing to open a table of dialogue with the representatives of the Government of Catalonia, with all democracy. But we, at this time, still don't know what the position of the Government of Spain is on the case of Catalonia, do we? Imagine, after all this time and we still don't know. Therefore, the question is this, and the world, and the Council of Europe, are directly targeting Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.108.0	Mr. President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.109.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.110.0	Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the motives for which the government has not denied whether it knew the plans of the alleged terrorists detained.]] [[317-00128/12]] The next question is the formula, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.111.0	Mr President, on 26 September, you, together with the Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana groups, applauded a separatist command accused of terrorism and possession of explosives. The information that appeared related you and your Government – and some department of your Government – to the activities of the command. In the motion we passed, you did not have the courage to give face and explain, to clarify this issue, which concerns Catalans so much. Why have you not come out to deny whether or not the government knew the plans of the alleged terrorists?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.112.0	Thank you. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.113.0	You, in your parliamentary office, tell us you've had access to a secret court record? Are you implying that? And how's the tea, you, this information? Oh, for press information: of Civil Guard... of press. Understood. Okay. And, therefore, you think this is a tavern in which we can discuss anything without providing evidence: slandering, as always, right? So no: this is the Parliament of Catalonia and here is no slander. [[Greetings.]] People are not slanderous here. You surprise me – well, no, don't surprise me anymore – because, of course, you never fail, do you? Why did he think, "Well, after one and two times, right? , after the general policy debate, after the motion of censure, today, perhaps, Ciutadans will come with another to, will self-criticise, will stop slandering... Listen'm, we have censored it twice. We've censored them twice. They've managed that this chamber has never rejected a motion of censure like its own, with this majority... Listen to me... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, yes, it's true. So then I answer what you want to comment on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.114.0	I've got the word the deputy again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.115.0	Yes, Mr President, we already knew that you were not going to explain to us, to answer the question. You are one of those who says to the CoRs « presseu, presseu and in the end they obey. You applaud and they think they're heroes. The judge did not say independence was violent, the judge said: "There are nine independenceists who were allegedly preparing terrorist attacks. Don't misunderstand yourself. For the vast majority of Catalans, those commandos who prepare explosives in their homes are not heroes, Mr. Torra, they are villains. To the Civil Guard, who protects us, and who acted by order of the judge, you voted to throw them out of Parliament. This leader of the opposition, for recriminating his applause, was expelled from this Parliament. Would you like to get us out of Catalonia? Well, I'm telling you, they're not gonna make it. The judge has ordered imprisonment because these people allegedly had plans to attack this Parliament at the time you set the start of the revolt, when the sentence came out, and that cost him a motion of censure from Citizens and a complaint to the prosecution. Do not trivialise violence, Mr Torra: do not trivialise violence; even journalists are complaining about the conditions in which they have to work in Catalonia, and the European Union and Reporters Without Borders have also had to say so. We're gonna get worse. You're poisoning, Mr. Torra, Catalan society and we're not going to look away like you do...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.116.0	Congressman, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.117.0	...the Socialist Party. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.118.0	To answer again, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.119.0	Are you telling me I'm banalitating violence? Are you going to say this here in your parliament, after seeing Mrs. Roldán, in this Faristol, third a picture of Vic's stroke? That photo that... we'll never forget, that photo of you with that photo: that's a banalization of violence – that's a banalization of violence. [[Greetings.]] And you insist, once and for all, on his report; you have built his report, on lies, falsehoods and slanders, and we are forced to defend ourselves from a non-existent, false report. Independence has always rejected violence, and I have always done so: all independenceists have rejected violence – all of them. [[Greetings.]] Because it's a peaceful movement, it's a democratic movement; it's a peaceful, democratic, non-violent movement, and now it's possible that you're using civil disobedience, of course. [[remorse of the voice]] , which is also a right – which is also a right – as the right to protest, as the right to concentration, as the right to freedom [[applause]] Right! - Right! If you are liberal – if you are liberal – the first one to respect is the rights of each city, the rights and freedoms of each city.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.120.0	President, time is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.121.0	This is the most important: rights and freedoms. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.122.0	Thank you. [[Communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions]] After the control session, let's go to the next item on the order of the day, which is the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. They ask that, if they have to abandon the hemicicle, they do so in silence, and quickly. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees must be communicated to the plenary, and, in this case, the current composition of the Committee of Territories and the Committee of the Union of Auditors is included in the dossier which is distributed in advance, so that I may be exonerated from reading. Yeah? Can I give it to inform the Ple? [[Pause.]] All right, so let's inform the Ple of this change in the composition of the commission months. [[Draft law amending the fourth edition of the Civil Code of Catalonia to guarantee equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities]] [[200-00001/12]] And so we move directly to the third item on the agenda, which is, in this case, the debate and vote on the opinion of the Commission of Justice on the draft law amending the fourth edition of the Civil Code of Catalonia, in order to guarantee equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities. In accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure, the first word is Mr Jordi Orobitg, who has been appointed as rapporteur for this question. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.123.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Councillors, advisors, deputies, deputies, allow me, before I enter the subject matter, to address a greeting to Mr Xavier Bernadí, Director General of Dret and the Legal Entities of the Department of Justice of the Generality of Catalonia, as well as a greeting, and also a thank you, to the members of the Codification Committee accompanying us, to the right-wing specialists and to the representatives and members of the names of the entities, associations and federations that are entitled to the rights of persons suffering from sensory disability, and who have appeared before the law to illustrate all those who are in our membership. I want to mention them, because they are not many either: Cocemfe, ONCE, ACIC, Association Disabled Visuals Catalunya B1+B2+B3, Federation of Deaf Persons of Catalonia, Catalan Association for the Promotion of Deaf Persons - ACAPPS, Cocarmi and Dincat. Tanmateix, I would like to greet the Council of the Catalan Advocate and the president of the Collège de Notaris de Catalunya, Joan Carles Ollé, who, as you can see, in this modification of the Civil Code there is a relevant presence for what makes some of the solutions that are adopted. Let us sincerely hope that the final outcome of this legislative process can please all those who appeared before the question. Greetings of rigour, and focusing on the legislative initiative that concerns us, in this case a bill in the area of justice sector, and therefore responsibility for the whole department, and to a greater extent its adviser, Ester Capella, I would like to congratulate you on the prompt promotion of the initiative so good it took on its responsibilities. And it's that today we approve of an important bill of law, especially sensitive both for the theme and for the weight that pats the collection, the rights from which they are object of protection. I was hoping we'd pass a law today, something some of the usual. And it seems that we will do so with a very broad consensus, which is still less common, and not just in this legislative chamber. That is not the only reason, but I would also like, as the rapporteur put it, to express my most sincere thanks to all the fellow Members who have taken part in the debate on behalf of the respective parliamentary groups. In the measure of their possibilities, and knowing that they are sometimes very few, due to the obligation to which they have to face in the different commissions of this Parliament, they have worked actively to make this legislative initiative come true the deputies Vidal Aragonés, Esperanza García, Yolanda López, Carmen de Rivera and Eusebi Campdepadrós. All of them, so, again, thank you. I thought today was an important step, and it's not a idle or gratuitous statement. We have made a _real and effective step forward to ensure equality between all citizens in the realm of succession law, leaving behind legislation that has been outdated by reason, among others, of the technological advances of our era. With this bill of law – and this is a motivator to congratulate Councillor Capella again, it gives compliment to Resolution 683 of the Eleventh Legislature, of May 25, 2017, of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities, mediating that the Parliament urged the Government to study and present the amendment of the Civil Code of Catalonia to effect the right to non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities in matters of testament. Not only this: this initiative enables us to compliment the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted in New York on 13 March 2006, which forms part, to all intents and purposes, of our legal order of 3 May 2008, and also of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The letter and the preamble to the Convention expressly states that disability is a concept that evolves and that results from the interaction between persons with disabilities and barriers in the attitude and environment that prevent full and effective participation in society on equal terms with others. Article 4.1, also in the Convention, in its Article b, provides that the States which in turn have to take the relevant measures, including legislative measures, to amend or repeal existing laws, regulations, customs and practices which constitute discrimination against persons with disabilities. And it is obvious that by modifying the Civil Code in the terms that we are making, we give complete compliment to what is at the disposal of the conviction. On the other hand, in the area of the European Union, Article 21.1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union establishes the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of disability, and Article 26 includes the principle of integration of persons with disabilities, recognizing and respecting the right of persons with disabilities to benefit from measures guaranteeing their autonomy, their social and professional integration and their participation in the life of the community. Even in the European sphere, the European Commission has also approved the document establishing the European Disability Strategy 2010-2020, which is defined as a renewed compromise for a Europe without barriers for people with disabilities, which aims to make it possible for people with disabilities to benefit from all rights and benefit from participation in society. As expected, one of the eight areas of joint action between the European Union and the countries that integrate it, defined by strategy, is that of equality, with the commitment to ensure the implementation of policies, both of the European Union and at national level, that promote equality. Defining the legal and conventional framework that affects this modification of the Civil Code and in keeping with the mandate of the Parliament, is to say, the previously stated Resolution 683, of the Eleventh Legislature, the amendment that imposes the law has been applied to the book of the Civil Code with the aim of eliminating any discriminatory treatment of persons with sensory disability, whether temporary or permanent in matters of testament. Systematically, the draft law counts on a single article that modifies four articles of the Civil Code, incorporates an additional provision that establishes the use of means to provide for sensory disability, a derogation from Law 10/2008, relating to successions, in order to avoid double standards with the previous and a final provision relating to the entry into force of the provision of its publication in the Official Gazette of the Generality, carried with the term of six-months for incorporation into it because it subscribes to the corresponding agreements between the notarial collections of Catalonia, the Government, different administrations and entities and public bodies, as well as entities that do not work to make everything possible. It is in relation to Article 421.8 that one of the most substantial changes is made as before the willingness to test a person with sensory disability, the notary must apply what is provided for in the Catalonia Civil Code and not in the notary legislation, and, also, has the obligation to offer to the testator– and not only to the testator, but also to the witnesses–, not only in the wills, but in any instrument or document relating to the right of successors, the tools and means to be able to carry out this right, but not only to the testator, but also to the witnesses–, not only in the wills, but in any instrument or document relating to the right of successors, the tools and means to be able to carry out this right without being subject to an additional economic expense beyond the orange that, as we all know, or if we should not know, are subject, in this case, to the notary tasks. Article 321.10 also assumes that the collection is equipped with the generality of the citizens, as it establishes that special circumstances are competing in the testator if, for anything, it does not know or cannot sign. In this case it is said that these special circumstances do not compete, in the case that the document has to be blocked is a sensory disability. Article 421.11, relating to the suitability of witnesses, also suppresses the condition of deafness, czechness or muteness that can be written as a result of indignity. Article 421.14 also removes the restriction that it had previously imposed at the time of making a will close to the check. In short, a set of standards that are oriented, as we have already expressed, to eliminate this distinction between the community of citizens of our country and people suffering from sensory disabilities. I am well aware that all these more training and technicalities that have probably been disconnected from many of the Members who are in this plenary room, those Members who usually hold back to whom we dedicate ourselves to the world of the right our indestructible and soporiferous lexicon. The reality, however, is that these tools, well used, allow today to build spaces of freedom and equality and to give answer to demands as they formulated us in Carles Pérez Mir, a deaf person of the second degree, with a cochlear implant audiophon, to compare before the ponency and exclaim: "I am like you and I demand to be treated like you. So yeah, you're right, Carlos, you're like us and we treat you like one more of us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.124.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next, as parliamentary groups have not reserved defence items in the House, we will open a round of interventions to set positions for a maximum of two minutes for each parliamentary group and five minutes for the parliamentary sub-groups. The first word is for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Carmen de Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.125.0	Thank you, President. Well, I do not want to go into the voting position, which will be in favour of voting on this bill to amend the fourth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, without thanking the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have spoken in the paper the high level of legal debate and the cordiality that have always presided over the meetings. And especially thank you for all the appearances that have been made in this paper, which were very useful. Thank you. I see there, between..., on stage, several of the speakers and people who were appearing and I would like to thank him. I think it is logical that this bill should be adopted because I believe that all the rapporteurs had the same interest, which seems to me to be a useful tool for this Member and all her colleagues in the parliamentary group. And this is precisely the object of this law that amends the fourth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia. A law of utility for a collective, that of sensory disabilities, which is absolutely up to date with all the technological tools and weapons of the twenty-first century. An absolutely competitive group without fear of the challenges and to break down barriers in order to eliminate their discrimination and stigmatization, thereby guaranteeing the effective equality of rights and, therefore, the non-discrimination of all persons with sensory disabilities. Particular consideration has been given in the final drafting to the suggestions made by representatives of the different groups to avoid all those words or words which are offensive and which in any case denote and contribute to the discrimination and stigmatization of the different sensory disabilities. And the Civil Code of Catalonia deserves to live up to all this, not only as the most modern civil legal norm, but also sensitive to the social demand and that of the collectives to which it is addressed, full subjects of law in the matter of succession subject to regulation and amendment in this draft law. And that is why, for all this, and because there was also a very clear legal mandate, one, the United Nations Convention, signed in New York on 13 December 2006, which imposed an obligation to adapt our legislation and to ensure that all persons, especially those with sensory disabilities, have equal and effective legal protection against any discrimination in the exercise of their legal capacity. Also, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in particular Articles 21 and 26, on non-discrimination and the integration of persons with disabilities. Finally, also the motion adopted in this Parliament, the 683/XI, which all parliamentary groups supported, to remove all obstacles to the full exercise of all the rights of this group. This change is therefore not only due to the need and at the request of the groups and persons directly concerned, but also as an expression of the best legal technique of Catalonia's civil law and as an adaptation to European law. But in addition and above all else, as a moral obligation of the legislator vis-à-vis persons with sensory disabilities. That is why I think it is a day to congratulate us all because it is a day when we have contributed the whole Parliament of Catalonia to the adoption of a timely, just and necessary law. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.126.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next is the return of Congresswoman Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.127.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselors, counselors, deputies and deputies, well, in the first place, let me give the welcome and thank the presence here, as well as his intervention and his explanations in the mark of the question of this modification of the book of the Civil Code, to members of associations and entities representing persons with sensory disabilities. Also thank the rapporteur's work, Mr Orobtig's work, as well as all the companies, Members and Members of this House, which I believe we have all been able to do a good job. Mirin, the modification of the fourth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, which today we will approve in this plenary, takes from Resolution 683 of the last legislature on equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities. Specifically, this resolution called for the modification of different articles, basically focusing on what makes reference to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, signed in New York on 13 September 2006 and ratified by Spain on 23 November 2007 and, therefore, of compulsory compliments already for the courts and which makes it necessary for us to adapt our legislation. This conviction obliges states to recognize that all persons are equal before and on account of the law and that they have equal legal protection and to benefit equally from the law without discrimination. It also obliges them to prohibit all discrimination on grounds of disability and to guarantee, to all persons with disabilities, legal protection, equal and effective against discrimination on any grounds. We say that the equality that is proclaimed in this belief is effective in all facets of life, including that referred to in the decision making. And we referred, in a special way, to Article 12 of this New York Convention when it speaks of "the same recognition as the person before the law. And so it reaffirms "recognition of legal personality and legal capacity in equal conditions with others in all aspects of the life of persons with disabilities. "And in this sense they will have to adopt the conviction, "the relevant measures to provide access to persons with disabilities for the recovery they may need in the exercise of their legal capacity to ensure in these measures the necessary and effective safeguards to avoid abuse. These safeguards must ensure that measures relating to the exercise of legal capacity respect the rights, the will and preferences of the person, that there are no conflicts of interest or undue influence, that are proportionate and adapted to the circumstances of the case. We already said that at that time, at the beginning of this process, but I believe that it was still clearer after the contributions in the comparisons than the different associations and entities representing the groups of persons with disabilities did in the complaint. Of those appearances, just as they were carried out by different jurists, the groups have extended our contributions, our papers to the original text. And at this point, we must naturally appreciate the contributions of those who always assume an enrichment of the legal texts that this Parliament produces. It is also worth highlighting the coincidence that in this work we have had the groups. A good part of the discussions we have presented are coincident, and that is the reflex, in our view, of the coincidence in the objective. Also of a positive value – and we have to say – of the text of the bill presented and of the willingness to reflect on what more knowledge you have of the subject has brought us, that's because you saw it in the first person, that's for your professional expertise. In this sense, the Socialists and Units Group for the Advancement presented papers referring, on the one hand, to removing from the text references to ‘disease or physical impairment; on the other hand, to clarify that sensory disability can be temporary or permanent, and that it will be the notaries that will provide people with sensory disabilities with the necessary supports and means to test as well as to act as witnesses, as well as to make reasonable adjustments, without this assuming an additional economic burden for the speaker. This last point we have agreed, I think, that all the groups, very probably because of the awareness that the fact of suffering a sensory disability already entails, in many cases, an associated economic burden and, therefore, we understood that it was justiciable to enable the necessary mechanisms so that, at the time of testing or witnessing, this did not involve an extra charge. We have to say that this item has been collected for the Collège de Notaris de Catalunya, which has shown its good predisposition to make it possible, which we want to recognize. In this sense, the text states that: « The Collège de Notaris de Catalunya, in the term of six months, to count from the publication of this law in the Official Journal of the Generality, must subscribe, with the Generality, with other administrations and public bodies or with entities without work, the necessary arrangements to be able to offer the possibility to use Braille, sign language, lip reading or other linguistic or technical means that allow to fill the sensory disability that affects oral comprehension, reading or writing. With regard to the other issues that our group has presented, they have been dealt with by other groups and the feeling that we thought it was bringing to the original text has been collected. Therefore, we find ourselves with a consensus text, the fruit of the need to adapt our civil regulation to the needs of all citizens, but also to the one that marks, as we say at the beginning of our intervention, the United Nations Convention and to which the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy advocate, when they speak of equality and the need for public powers to promote conditions, so that this equality is real. But, Members and Members, the reps are not done here and we must continue to lay the conditions, legislating, but above all we must put the necessary resources because this equality is effective. Because for many laws we do, if they don't go along with actual resources to make them possible, this equality will be legal, but not real. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.128.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now, for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed, it is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese. No, I'm sorry – I'm sorry – that I've been left by Mrs. Yolanda López, first of all, of the Group of Catalonia in Comú Pode. Excuse me, Mr. Aragonese.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.129.0	Excuse me, President; thank you – Vice President. MPs, MPs... Good morning, everyone. To thank and welcome all the associations that have wanted to be present, as well as the Council d'Advocacia Catalana and the president of the Collège de Notaris. The United Nations Convention of 13 December 2006, produced in New York, recognized that disability is a evolving concept and that it results from the interaction between persons with disabilities and barriers to attitudes and the environment that prevent their full and effective participation in society on equal terms with others. And that is why we are here, and that is what we are voting for today to do effectively within our legal framework; in this case, through the adaptation of our civil code to what the international convention marks. An international convention that was born out of the struggle, precisely, against discrimination against people with some kind of sensory disability. And we not only reflect what the international convention says, but we are also acting consistently to respect the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and, in particular, one of the points contained in the European Disability Strategy 2010-2020. Therefore, this bill has several clear objectives, including: to comply with international opinions on fundamental rights, focusing on persons with sensory disabilities, because, as the convention makes clear, the necessary measures must be taken to provide access to persons with disabilities and the support they may need in the exercise of their legal capacity, ensuring that these measures are adequate and effective in order to avoid abuse, with the aim of ensuring that our Catalan Civil Code helps to prevent stigmatization of persons with sensory disabilities and to remove the current restrictions set out in our Civil Code in relation to acts of a succession, such as granting a will, ordering last wills or acting as witnesses to a will of others, which until now entailed discriminatory treatment for persons with sensory disabilities in testamentary material, all for and so that in the field of civil law a person with sensory disabilities is treated the same as any other person who does not have legally modified capacity. But let us not forget that this bill also has another objective, which is to finally fulfil a mandate of this Parliament, a mandate that gave us resolution 683/11 of 25 May 2007 on equal rights and non-discrimination for persons with sensory disabilities. It is therefore a joy that we can take a step further and make it effective because, really, we are going late and this law comes with a step back regarding society, and we cannot forget that. Nor can we forget that, in Catalonia, there is much work to be done to further harmonize Catalan legislation with the opinions of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and to advance the scope of its purpose, based on the promotion, protection and security of full enjoyment on an equal basis of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for persons with disabilities and to promote respect for their inherent dignity. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, and I also believe that we have to apply it also in Parliament, it is time for us to get to work, it is time for us to start working for Catalonia to progress socially, and this the Government cannot say that it is a matter of budgets, it is a matter of political will. We therefore hope that after today, after the adoption of this bill, we will continue to work to eliminate the difficulties faced by persons with disabilities. And, finally, from our parliamentary group, Catalonia in Comú Puem, we understand that this law is more than necessary, that it is a logical application of international texts, that is why we want to thank, mainly, the entities that have appeared and that have made the task so easy for us. Thanks also to the counselor, who I know has been one of the most interested people. As the rapporteur for the paper, Mr Orobig, has done for us very easily; thank you, Mr Orobig. And thanks to the lawyer, Mr Domínguez, and to the technique, Mrs Bover, who assisted us in the presentation. His work has always been publicly invisible, but it has been essential to bring this paper forward. Finally, thanks to all the Members who have taken part in the presentation, for facilitating that we have found a space of consensus, understanding and dialogue in order to be able to bring this law forward, which we need so much to make social progress and which people with sensory disabilities also need. That's why, thanks to everyone and everyone. We hope to be able to continue working together and together for a more inclusive, equitable, sustainable Catalonia for all and in which the rights of persons with disabilities are fully realized. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.130.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now yes, it is the turn of the deputy Vidal Aragonese, of the Subgroup of the CUP - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.131.0	Good morning, all of you. I will be allowed, deputies and deputies, to begin the intervention with reference to the October New. Today, it's one of those days of ours, it's one of those days of the Catalan Countries and, therefore, we're in this cliff, but we have the heart of the Valencian Country and we'll have it in a more special way this evening, when the anti-faixists and the anti-faixists are manifest in the city of València. [[Some applause.]] On the concrete issue that we are addressing today, and it is the one that refers to the modification of the Catalan Civil Code, we would like to make some general consideration, in order to try to make some addition to what has already been expressed by previous spokespersons of parliamentary groups. First question. The right is never neutral, absolutely never; more so than there are those who constantly plant that liberal idea of the right than the same rule or the same rule is the same for everyone, so that never happens. And it never happens because, obviously, people are different and we have different realities. This must lead us to try to fight to build a right as a tool that does not only establish equal rights from the formal point of view, but also establishes rights that in the realization allow everyone– everyone– to achieve the same rights, which are different things. If this is transferred to people who have diminished or reduced some of the feelings or, at the very least, who do not have any of the feelings, what we find in reality is indirect discrimination. In fact, the legislation that we will end up repealing today, with the adoption of a new regulation, what it meant was indirect discrimination, and I will explain it in a very flat way: as it was transferred to the Catalan Civil Code as an equal standard for everyone, the norm was the same for everyone, it had absolutely discriminatory effects on certain collections. Finally, we must say that the rule was not only of indirect discrimination, but that, in its regulation, it was of direct discrimination over some collections and that it was part of a reality clearly of how society was observed or as it observed a part of the society determined collections not of the XX century, not of the XXI century, but, surely, of the XIX century or earlier. And, therefore, it is necessary for us to advance not only in equal standards, but in standards that generate equality for all, in standards that generate potential to be able to exercise rights equally for all. This is what we say for this matter, but since the CUP - Constituent Creed, we think it should be for all the subjects that are regulated. About concrete. Thanks have been given and this group also wants to do, but it wants to do a more concrete thank you to the Members and to the Members who have written more concrete papers, because it is more work and because, moreover, it is a technical work, and it has been said before, of much quality. But, beyond the technical work of quality, also with another reference, that it is the will to give response to the needs that were raising for us collectivities that know much more than we do about it, it does not make us ashamed to say that there is someone who knows much more than we do, because we cannot know everything and everything about it. About the concret. Amendment of Article 1. Talk about notaris. We should remember that it should refer to notaries, notaries or notaries, because it will obviously also apply to notaries and in the conjunction of notaries, in this article 1, providing support to people with sensory disabilities. Article 2. Also the special circumstances did not take into account the sensory disability itself, but the fact of not being able to sign. Article 3. Eliminate the prohibition of giving witnesses to persons with sensory disabilities. I couldn't hear that. Article 4. Eliminate the closed will ban for blind people. There is absolutely no sense that this has been maintained in the regulations in force. And, lastly, also in the thanks for the additional and final arrangements, above all, to the Commission's letter, which has made us a technical contribution, but very interesting, and have three references. First, the will documents, because it is not only the concrete document of the will, but others that can be related to the fact of testing. After that, the need and already incorporation of braille, of sign language, but also of lip reading, to the obvious effects of being able to make these rights effective. And the last, many times, questions that we don't remember for a topic, many times, I would say technical disconnection or how society works, legal vacation, we approve a rule and let the notaries apply it, so obviously it was also important that we set a legal vacation of six months because, through their professional colleges, they can sign agree. That is why, since the CUP - Constituent Creed, we would vote in favour of this normalized change. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.132.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Next is the return of MP Esperança García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.133.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, well, I want to start my intervention, first, with a thank you and an apology. I know it's unusual, but I want to. A thank you to all the members of the board, all the experts, to the councillor – it's rare, but I say it to the councillor – for their interest in making this modification of the Civil Code. And an apology for our presence being more spiritual and more telematic than not in person, for the self-humility of our parliamentary subgroup, isn't it? First of all, I think today is a day where I think we need to be and we can be self-satisfied, because we've made a legal change in a short time, practically... a very short time, a legal change that seems small, but that's very great for people who will be affected in a day to day. It's a time, too, to be happy, because in very complex political times, to reach consensus, despite the fact that it's on such an objective issue as this, that it's to make the equality of all citizens effective so as to access the right-wing successor, it's also very complex and it's also difficult, with which I think we can give ourselves, or one day, a cup at the behest of what we've done well, and that seems like a good result. I think this change we approve is a giant step for people with sensory disabilities. It's annoying because for the first time we've removed a code, a civil code, a language that was totally stigmatizing. Stigma isn't just social, and one of the facts is legal, and I think that's how we got it. In the second term, we were able to eliminate all the successes. Why does it have to be so hard for a person who has sensory disability to be able to test, to exercise the same rights as a person who does not have this disability? Thirdly, I think we are not late, but we have tried, for the first time, to serve a system, which is the Braille system, which has been established in the world for more than thirty years, and which has improved on a day-to-day basis and which has involved an opening door, the intercommunication of people with sensory disabilities, respecting the rest of the world that surrounds them. Finally, it will be possible to make an ordinary and legalistic use of a medium that was absolutely daily for people with sensory disabilities. I also believe, in the fourth term, that we have guaranteed freedom and, above all, the right to privacy. I say freedom and intimacy, because it seemed inconceivable that persons with disabilities should pass, in short, a proof of verification of a witness who gave more valid to the value of his word respects a person who does not have a disability. And that's what I'm referring to as witnesses. I also believe, moreover, that today, with this legislative technique, which we do not always serve, we have made there a law is not good if it cannot be applied. And as we have made a prediction..., and I believe that a special thanks must be given to the Collège de Notaris, for his contributions and to say to us from time to time to the legislator: "Listen, it is very good, but we need a vacation, we need a time, a moratorium. And I think the fact that this interaction is so good and this law holiday will allow us to now, today, we can almost say that it will be a good law, because it can be applied and it can be applied well. I believe that today is a day to be proud, that we have not only complemented with an adaptation of international standards to our Civil Code, for the Charter of European Phonenal Rights, for the United Nations Convention, but that we have practically completed it, I would say that with a moral obligation: to realize that equality for people with disabilities is a possibility that is real, that it is effective, that it is easy to do it and that it will be produced from now on, and, above all, I believe that some as at least... I, as a minimum, have complemented with that of vocation, that you dedicate yourself to politics, that the fact of being here makes it possible to improve, or that there is a gyp on the day of our people's life. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.134.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of the intervention of Mr Jordi Orobtig. [[Pause.]] I would like to make it clear that you have already spoken as a rapporteur, as a rapporteur. The position of the parliamentary group now corresponds to him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.135.0	Well, I'll be very short and I won't hate the audience again, because I think it's all very clear. I just want to add... well, in the first place I'd like to look at a wrong one that I've made. This reading, which I do not usually like, has caused me to skip one of the lines of my intervention, and I did not mention Congresswoman Rosa Maria Ibarra, who precisely had a role to play, because, as she has said, she has made many contributions and most of them have been admitted, which is proof of my good will at the time of managing the complaints. I'm also juiced in this case... [[Widow's remorse.]] Home, if I don't speak well, I'm the one who'll do it, right? [[Rialles.]] Also, man, I would like to add to the thanks made in this case by the company, representing it, the spokesman, in this case, of the group of the commons, in relation to both the reader and the parliamentary manager, because they certainly have had an ingenious job. The truth, it seemed..., was a modification of the Civil Code which, to some extent, seemed simple, but at the last moment we had to make some important connections, because there was not only the proper regulation of the Civil Code, but previous legislation, such as Law 10/2008, which in some of its dispositions also obviously affected this modification that we made, and which made it necessary, therefore, to make this connection. How well this transitional arrangement, this differentiated legal vacancy on the part of the text, and the one specifically occupied by the Notaris College and the obligation of these professionals to make available to these people the means necessary to achieve this right, has also been established. So, just this, repeat the thanks to everyone. I think we're recreating a lot in the thanks today, but I think he's already said more about one person: it's hard for us to reach unanimous consensus in this room, and the day we do it, so, precisely this need to be esteemed, makes us recreating a little. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.136.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now yes, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya has the word the deputy Mr Eusebi Campdepadrós. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.137.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen deputies, councillors, councillors, especially we greet today the Councillor of Justicia, the Lady Capella. We also obviously greet the Director General of Legal Entities and the representatives of all the collections of sensory disabilities that accompany us today, as well as the members of the Codification Commission. I'm sure I'll get bigger, huh? Today we will approve this Bill of Law amending the Civil Code's book quarter to guarantee equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities. It's fair, as the previous ones have done in the word, to make the graces and recognize the task that has allowed the plenary to endure this law. Obviously, we must welcome the initiative in the first place of the Government, which compliments Resolution 683/XI of 25 May 17 of the Parliament of Catalonia, from which the Parliament urged the Government to study and present this amendment of the Civil Code of Catalonia to effect the right of non-discrimination of persons with disabilities, in matters of will, and to provide legal certainty to those persons in their successors' rights. We also have an important thanks to the Codification Commission, which provided the initial basic text, which served for the work, with a remarkable legal quality. We must also welcome the task of the Commission of Justice, and especially I also join in thanking the rest of the members of the delegation, who, with a remarkable willingness to consent, have enabled us to reach a complete agreement on the final text. We also, of course, appreciate the very important and enriching contributions of all our fellow Members, and also a special thanks to the rapporteur on the question, Mr Orobtig, who has led her firmly and with remarkable celerity. And, of course, I also join in thanking the legal staff of the Parliament, the Illetrate, which has released its remarkable task by making a final technical contribution of a technical modification which will also be submitted to the plenary, which allows for a correct harmonization of the transitional and final provisions. Several times we have defended in this faristol, and we will repeat it today, the full and integral competence of the Generality in the preservation, maintenance and development of our civil rights as a global system, strongly stalled in the country, and framed, yes, in the most modern tendencies of the international law, always preserving its essential rights, which are civil freedom, respect for the freedom of covenants and respect for the freedom of the person. Bearing in mind, too, with this vision of the future, that our civil right is part of our identity as a nation. And probably for this reason, despite the development of an exclusive competence of the Statute of Autonomy, the subsequent compilation of our civil right has been the object of the attacks of the Central Government, especially through the Court «Constinitorial, with the correspondents suspensions of its application, violating the right to autonomy and in damages of the citizens. Three of them fortunately dismissed, but for a sense of the past generation, articles of the Law of Digital Wills have been annulled, for example, and we still have a pending appeal against the free choice of contracts. Our project for this country is a cohesive society, with equal opportunities, and equal rights for all citizens. Because this equality is effective, it is necessary to eradicate any case of discrimination, especially those heretics of the past and forms, as was the case with this, even in laws incompatible with this kind of equality. People with sensory disabilities suffer from a visual, hearing or verbal dysfunction that limits their expressive and receptive communication skills and, in order to achieve effective equal opportunities in the exercise of their rights as citizens, it is appropriate to take measures to bind them to a legal equal treatment. The purpose of the law is precisely to place these people with this sensory disability, whether permanent or temporary, on an equal footing with the rest of the city for which it does in the exercise of its rights at the time of securing the will before notaries and intervening as witnesses. Also – and it is important – it is the object of this law to delete the expressions collected from the legislation that identify these persons as having their disability as deaf, blind or changed, because this lexical disappearance can help to eliminate the stigmatization resulting from the explicit name of these disabilities. It is, therefore, that in the area of civil law, a person with a sensory disability is treated the same as anyone else feels, that the fact of having a certain dysfunction does not have to constitute a limitation, so far, at the time of carrying out acts with legal effectiveness. Physical impairment is not for it itself a criterion for determining a person's ability to validly bind legal acts, as is the case with making wills or intervening as witnesses. The law eliminates with general character, therefore, the restrictive criteria that assumed the relevance to a collection of persons with disabilities, and allows the notar to follow in each case, and depending on the personal circumstances of the speaker, which values are its ability to understand and communicate, in conformity with the provisions of the Civil Code. They are, therefore, people who can already carry out legal acts from now on with full effectiveness, because the affectation of their senses does not restrict their self-government. They are people who can express their conscious and free will, and have the ability to understand and discern to make decisions in the personal and heritage sphere. Therefore, at present, there is no justification for maintaining specific limitations on the Civil Code for these persons, given that deficiencies can be filled with alternative communication techniques with equivalent legal certainty and reliability. Arrived at this point, we must do another and special thanks, in this case to the Notarial College, which, showing a commendable conscience and social responsibility, will assume the burden and the cost of the personal and technical means that must facilitate the intention and disposition of the law, in order to guarantee this equality of rights, remain materially effective, establishing, yes, a reasonable legal vacation, as has already been said, six months to facilitate the logical adaptation. If it had not done so, the law's vocation to eliminate discrimination against people who already suffer from sensory disability would have been frustrated in forcing them to assume an additional burden on their personal situation. This law is the translation into our international law order, ratified by the State and therefore by obligatory compliments, and implements the 2006 United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, it also compliments the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights, which establishes the principles of non-discrimination on grounds of capacity and integration of persons with disabilities, and it is also incardinated in the European Disability Strategy 2010-2020, approved by the European Commission. Obviously, it is a matter of making it possible for disabled people to exercise all their rights and equal opportunities participation in society. Last but not least, this reform of the most profound sources of our law, which, for example, recovered and studied among others the distinguished Catalan jurist Francesc Maspons and Anglasell, who in his book The Hope of the Catalan Public Law, published during the Republic, the year 1932, reminds us Maspons that our constitutions, based on the pact, were presided over by the principles of freedom, the primacy of the law, and the principle of fairness, which is nothing more than the justice applied to each case. The law we approve today is the materialization of this principle of fairness. We are returning personal autonomy to people with sensory disabilities or, in another way, more real, more effective their freedom, because freedom does not exist if all and every person and in all spheres of their life are not free. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.138.0	Thank you, Congressman. One time the groups have intervened, and since the Councillor of Justice has asked us to address the chamber, I pass the word to Mrs Esther Capella. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.139.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies, lords and lords, today please, especially, speak of this Faristol. I'm always happy, but today, especially. First of all, allow me to greet the representatives of the entities that accompany us, the ACCI, the ONCE, the entities that have, in this case, also allow me to say this, and ACAPPS, that have held a key role at the time of claiming and pushing the approval of the standard change that we have between hands. Also the Dincat, the Cocarmi, among others. The Director General of Dret and Juridical Entities, Mr Bernadí, also the President of the Collège de Notaris de Catalunya, Mr Ollé, to the Codification Commission and in particular to his President, who also coincides in the person of Mr Ollé. I told them that I would especially like to make this intervention today because we are about to take a new step in favour of people's equality, to take a new step towards ending some discrimination that still unfairly affects certain collections of people, and we are doing so in exercise of the exclusive competence of the Government of Catalonia in the matter of civil law, that is, by putting the right to the service of the people and the collections that they require most. As you will recall, in the previous parliamentary term this Parliament has already taken a first step with this very objective, and it has done so with the approval of Law 3/2017, of 15 February, of the book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, which amended the book according to our Civil Code in a timely manner to remember that the judicial authority has to pronounce itself expressly, it has to pronounce expressly on the ability to exercise the right of suffrage when you declare the modification of the capacity of a person, according to what they establish the Procedural Law and the Law of Electoral Regime. What was intended at that time, then, was to end the automation of linking the modification of people's capacity with the loss of their right to pay. In this same line, but almost two years later, the state legislature also confirmed the right of full support for all persons with disabilities. On that occasion, I was also an entity of the third sector, Dincat, which pushed the standard change to what I referred to, through a proposal that then Councillor Mundó had incorporated into the draft law of the libre sisè of the Civil Code of Catalonia. In one case and another, therefore, there has been an important agreement and close collaboration between civil society organisations, the Government of the Generality, through the Department of Justice, and the Parliament of Catalonia, where these proposals have been rejected, worked and approved with broad consensus. I also want to take the opportunity to thank all the spokespersons of Justice who have intervened today in their interventions. I am pleased that this consensus of all groups is back to producing today with the approval of this draft law amending the fourth edition of the Civil Code of Catalonia so that we can guarantee equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities. For this very reason I think today is not a day to delve into those aspects that still, in aspects of civil law, separate us, but into those that unite us under the same shared object, which you know are more the objects we share than the ones we do not share. The bill that today is submitted to the plenary vote claims that persons with sensory impairment, whether temporary or permanent, do not suffer any type of discrimination because of sensory impairment in the exercise of the rights and freedoms that correspond to them as citizens and citizens in the field of the civil rights of Catalonia. Consequently, we are ahead of a new application of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was approved, as recalled, in New York on 13 September 2006, and which will be incorporated into the Spanish legal order, and therefore fully in force, since 3 May 2008; that is to say, directly applicable. The legislative amendment we are proposing today also applies what the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union says, and in particular the principles of non-discrimination and integration of persons with disabilities, reflected in its Articles 21 and 26. Thus, with this initiative, the Government also compliments the resolution of this Parliament, on 683/11, of 25 May 2017, which also referred to a number of parliamentary spokespersons of the Catalan Parliament, on the equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities, which the Catalan Parliament urged the Government of Catalonia to study and present the modification of the Catalan Civil Code to achieve the right of non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities in matters of testament. For all this, I understand that we find ourselves in front of an initiative that can be celebrated and that has received the support of all parliamentary groups, to whom I would like to thank again, in front of an initiative that makes us all and all the more equal and that sets the stage for some legislative solutions that, if in their day they could have a protective character or yours, have clearly been discriminated against, as someone has also mentioned. The pace of time, social progress, standard changes and technological development have made these forecasts, still in force, lose all their meaning. From these premises, the bill removes the restrictions that the Catalonian Civil Code still establishes today for people with sensory disabilities in the hour of hard to term actions of natural succession and places them on an equal footing with people who do not have this disability in the hour of entering the will or intervening as witnesses in the appointment of alien witnesses. The law that is submitted to the vote of this plenary consists only of four articles, one additional provision and one final one. The name of modified precepts is small, but it doesn't do the thing, as it also said a parliamentary spokesman, but the leap we're going to make approving them is huge, it's very big. In effect, Article 421.8 removes references to blind, deaf, mute or deaf-mud testers, enshrines the right of persons with sensory impairment to the notaries corresponding to the support and means necessary to be able to test without this additional economic burden, and applies these same solutions to persons with sensory impairment who have to act as witnesses in the setting up of a notary will. In this point, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia and on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, I would like to express my gratitude to the Notarial College of Catalonia for its active involvement in the impulse of the law as its willingness to make it possible for persons with sensory disabilities to have the technical means necessary to exercise their rights, enabling us to articulate through the agreed co-operation correspondents that are needed with the Generality, the Notarial Colleges and the entities involved. On the other hand, by way of the modification of the second part of Article 421.10, the rule on the need for witnesses to intervene in the enforcement of the notarial will will be fully understood. Thus, if it is understood that witness intervention was necessary to assume that the testator was blind or deaf, then the totally contrary principle is established, since the new article 421.10.2 establishes that special circumstances in the testator compete if for any cause they cannot, know or cannot sign, and then states that they do not consider that there are special circumstances for the fact that they have a sensory disability. Thus, by virtue of the new Article 420.11, the prohibition that persons with disabilities may act as witnesses in the setting up of a notary will is abolished, they understand that the fact of having a sensory disability, in any case, can be considered as a cause of lack of suitability to make witnesses. This change will apply equally to persons who intervene in a will as faculty, interpreters or experts. Another solution in favour of equality and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities is the adoption of the new wording of 421.14 of the Civil Code of Catalonia. The precept, his writing, still in force, tell him that they can't hold the will closed, neither the checks nor the ones they don't know or can't read. With the new writing, in change, it eliminates the prohibition that persons with sensory impairment may hold a sealed will, allow it to be held only for persons who do not know or cannot read, and expressly establishes that the enclosed will is written for the testator, whether in autograph, Braille or other technical means, as may be the sign language or lip reading. Finally, with regard to all the changes that we have just seen, few articles, but of a fortitude and therefore of a cabdal import, and in order to guarantee their full effectiveness, the additional provision states that, in conformity with the provisions of Articles 421.8, 421.14, 421.14 of the Civil Code of Catalonia, and at the request of the testator in the statement of wills, the braille, sign language, lip reading or other linguistic or technical means must be used to relieve the sensory disability affecting oral comprehension, reading or writing. As I have advanced, the installation at the disposal of these technical means to the persons who require them will be guaranteed by the notary corporation, on the basis of the agreements that were signed before the collaboration with this corporation, the Government of Catalonia, other administrations, public bodies and non-profit entities within a maximum period of six months from the entry and publication of this law. As I said before, a small intervention in our Civil Code allows us to take a great step, all necessary, all necessary, in favor of equality and non-discrimination of people with sensory disabilities. I'm aware, we all don't have to be, that we're ahead of a necessary change, but it's not enough. We still have a long way to go to fully include and assume in our legal order the New York Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We have already made some passes, and today we will make another in this direction, but we still lack to make the overall and complete transposition of the international and European regulations adopted to fully guarantee these rights and avoid any kind of discrimination. I'm going back to the beginning, as I just have to celebrate that we've arrived at this point, thanks to the effort of everyone. And, in particular, thanks to the efforts of the driving forces; of the Commission of Codification of Catalonia; of the Collège de Notaris of Catalonia; of the deputies and deputies of the Commission of Justice of this Parliament – obviously, to all the technical support of the Parliament – who have succeeded in improving and consensusing a text that will decisively contribute to the social transformation of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.140.0	Thank you, Counselor. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. [[Pause.]] Meanwhile, I would like to inform you that during this morning and before the midday suspension, we will also see the quarter point of the order of the day, which is the debate and vote on the Decree of 13/2019, and also the proposal to elect the four members of the Board of Governors of the Catalan International Institute for Pau, which we will do – as the goddess said – these two points, just before the midday suspension. First of all, we would vote on a technical legislative issue, which has been distributed to all the speakers and, therefore, to all the parliamentary groups. We shall therefore vote in the first place, before the remainder of the opinion, on this technical point. Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. This technical approach has been unanimously approved, i.e. 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We shall now vote on the text of the opinion. The vote on the draft law amending the fourth book of the Civil Code of Catalonia begins. The vote begins. The draft law amending the fourth edition of the Civil Code of Catalonia, in order to guarantee equal rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities, has been approved by 130 votes in favour, against and against. I mean, for the record. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you very much. [[Decree of 13/2019, of 10 September, approving the necessary rules for the self-liquidation of the tax on sweetened drinks]] [[203-00021/12]] The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree 13/2019, of 10 September, approving the necessary rules for the self-liquidation of the tax on sweetened drinks packaged. In accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President of the Government and the Councillor of Economy and History will intervene in the first place to explain the reasons for which this Decree has been promulgated. When you say so, Vice President. Let's hope that the deputies who have to leave the Chamber and then, when you want to... [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.141.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselors, counselors, deputies, deputies, very good morning to everyone. Allow me to begin this intervention with a phrase that clearly illustrates who is one of the objectives of the Government in the field of salvation. And it's that, with less sugar, it's better for our salvation. Growing sugar intake increases the total number of calories in our diet, thus increasing the risk of excess weight and obesity, which, according to the World Health Organization, lead to an increase in cases of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and certain types of cancer, in more than one dental setting. According to data from the Department of Health, almost half the population, divided to seventy-four years in Catalonia, is overweight. The percentage of the population with excess weights is higher than the size of the population, among the most disadvantaged social classes and among those who have or do not have primary education. Therefore, there is a clear correlation between economic inequality and bad conditions in the field of salvation. And therefore, it can promote clear measures, too, by reversing inequalities in the area of entries, because this also ends up affecting, in the medium and long term, in the area of inequalities in salvation. These data refer when we focus on the population of six to twelve years: 30_per_cent, according to Health Department data, also has excess weights. The prevalence of obesity is higher among – let's go back – young people, infants, therefore, who belong to families with lower entrances, and when parents have primary or lower primary studies. And by contrast, excess fish has less prevalence in those children belonging to middle-income families and when parents have secondary studies. Therefore, this clear correlation between economic inequality/unequalities in the matter of health, is clearer when we refer, therefore, to the children of our country. According to Catalonia's health survey, 2015-2016, a 10.6_per_cent of infants take sugar begudes every day; a 10_per_cent do it once a day; and a 1_per_cent, more than once a day. And this amount is higher – as I said – in circumstances where there is more economic inequality. As I said, the less sugar we consume, much better for our salvation. And for this reason, one of the objectives of the Government of Catalonia is to reduce the consumption of sugar beakers. We must bear in mind that, a thirty-five-gram launa of sugar added to the sugar equivalent of seven teaspoons of coffee, a well-known brand of sugar that we can all imagine today, contains thirty-five grams of sugar added. That's more than the World Health Organization recommends ingesting as a daily. In Catalonia, and in other countries and cities around the world, a tax has been applied to reduce the consumption of these drinks; as in France, the United Kingdom, New Zealand or Mexico, in these last with persistent and very successful results. And it's proven to be an effective measure to achieve it. In fact, it is one of the proposals of the World Health Organization, to successfully combat the excessive consumption of these drunks. On the benefits of this measure, there are various international, economic and scientific studies that certify this. The case of Catalonia, according to a study of researchers of the Center for Research in Economics and Health of the Pompeu Fabra University, and of the Institute of Economics of the University of Barcelona, the tax – in force in Catalonia since the year 2017 – has managed to reduce the purchase of this type of beguds; of beguds with added sugar. Last July, a study was presented, carried out for the Catalan Institute for the Evaluation of Public Policies, on the application of the tax on sweetened beguds, which concluded that the reduction in weights resulting from the decrease in the consumption of sweetened beguds, entails an expansion and improvement of the quality of life of people. And another conclusion you draw from the study is that the costs of designing and implementing and managing the tax, are lower than the cost estimate for the health system, derived from the better health of the population. And that, therefore, the measure is effective, also in economic terms; not only in terms of salvation, but also in economic and presuppostarial terms. Col·lectius as the Spanish Society of Family and Community Medicine; the Spanish Society of Public Health and Health Administration; the Catalonian Public Health Society and Balears, the Catalan Society of Family and Community Medicine have shown themselves in favour of these types of taxes. And on the other hand, according to an international study, in which researchers have participated, both from the Català d'Oncologia Institute, as well as from the Biomedical Research Institute of Bellvitge, a greater consumption of beguds than we call the type refresc, both those containing sugar, as artificially endolcides, is associated with an increase of the risk of death. This measure directly connects with one of the objectives of sustainable development, which marks the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations; concretely, the objective of guaranteeing a healthy life and promoting well-being for all ages. And in this sense, a few days ago the Government approved the National Plan for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda in Catalonia, which identifies the commitments of our Government in relation to each of the objectives of sustainable development of the United Nations and its respective strands. One of the commitments that this plan contains is, precisely, to continue with the implementation of taxation, in order to affect those pipelines or habitats harmful to the salvation of people. And this measure is clearly the deposit of the sugary beaks. For all this, we would like to see everyone, and also the companies that produce sweet drinks, share this goal of reducing the consumption of added sugars, in order to guarantee a healthy life and improve the salvation of the population. As some of you will recall, the tax on sugary sugars was approved in 2017, and forms part of the Law accompanying the Generality's assumptions for that exercise. In this law, the essential elements of the new tax figure are regulated. A few months later, the Government approved the Law's Tax Regulation. And they already know that, recently, the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, has annulled the Decree approving this Regulation, to consider that there was a defect of form in its processing. An extreme and a justification of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which we do not share in absolute. It is true that, between the Court and the Government of Catalonia, there is a difference of criteria, with regard to whether or not a period of public exposure should be opened, before the adoption of the Rules. But let us not deceive ourselves, the conglomerate of associations of producers, distributors, and merchants of sugar beakers, did not want to drop the Regulation for a fault of form; they wanted to fall because they made us at the time of maximizing their economic benefits. And that, it plays with our willingness to contribute to the better salvation of the citizenry. Our obligation is to promote the common good and this means prioritizing the welfare of the citizenry, in front of the private benefits of an oligopolis. Always, we will pose the welfare of the people before private interests, always. What we claim with the application of this tax is to promote a change in citizens' habits and to make the producers, distributors and traders of sugar beet responsible for the problems arising from the excessive consumption of sugar beet. Even so, and despite the cancellation of the Rules, it is clear that there continues to be a strong and binding tax, approved by law. That is to say, distributors must continue to settle the tax and pass it on to the establishments, and these, on their return, to the consumers; as they have done; despite the cancellation of the Regulation, it has not lowered the price of drinks with excess sugar. But the problem is that without the Rules they cannot carry out this input, since there are no technical aspects such as the period of input, for example, to the Tax Agency, regulated with a legal rule, causing manifest legal insecurity. It is necessary, therefore, to resolve this situation of normal emptiness, as soon as possible better. You can count on a relevant regulation, to fully apply a tax that is in force, that generates obligations and that passive subjects have to pay. For this reason, the government approved a decree that we are debating today for its validation. These unplanned judicial circumstances, which entailed the risk of paralysing the recovery of the tax that distributors had already passed on to their customers, were at all advisable to dictate again, with urgency, the rule of deployment that fixed the period of revenue and the formalities to do so. With this decree, we are not approving anything again: the articles that I already contained were part of the regulation approved in 2017, and which – we recall – the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has annulled not for the content, but for a supposed formal defect in the processing. It is therefore a minimum content to make the application of the tax effective. This fixed minimum content: the rule of calculating the quota to be entered, the liquidation period, with the deadline and form of presentation of the revenue, the formal obligations of the tax obligations and the competent bodies for its management, recapitulation and inspection. Thus, the decree contains six articles, a transitional provision and a final provision. Articles 1 and 2 reproduce Articles 3 and 4 of the Tax Regulation, which focus on complementing the concepts of packaging and distribution. Article 3 reproduces Article 5 of the Regulation and incorporates the quota calculation rules for the purpose of autoliquidation of the tax. Articles 4, 5 and 6 of the Decree contain Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Regulation, relating to the liquidation period, the terms and form of presentation of the self-liquidation charge, the formal obligations of the tax obligations and the competent body for the management, recapitulation and inspection of the tax respectively. The transitional provision also reproduces the text contained in the regulation, in which it regulates the situations in which the drink was supplied at the point of sale before the entry into force of the tax, but the distributor issues the invoice after that date. A technical aspect to avoid this time lag. The final provision establishes the entry into force for the beginning of its publication in the Official Gazette of the Government of Catalonia. This is the structure of the law decree; it is the law that must allow us to recover the lost legal certainty from the judgment of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia; it must allow us to fully enforce the settlement of the tax, a tax that has a clearly extra fiscal objective, does not have a recaptator objective. And this objective is nothing other than to face the negative effects that the excessive consumption of added sugars causes in the health of the population. In other words, as I said before, it is not an imposition recaptator, but a measure that seeks to improve the salvation of people. For all these reasons, in order to guarantee this legal certainty of this tax already approved for this Parliament and which is in force, we ask the Plenary to consider the validation of this decree. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.142.0	Thank you, Vice President. It's the return of parliamentary groups. And in the first place, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of Grupo Parlamentari Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Antonio Espinosa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.143.0	Thank you, President. Mr Vice-President, Councillors, Members of Parliament, the Government has brought us to Parliament a decree law for its approval and validation. Let me start my speech with a little humor and a certain irony: you already know the expression that 'hair is hair'. Do you know her? Well, this Government of the Generalitat, per la pella is able to use until the decree law. A decree law which, as you know, promulgates the President of the Generalitat, but, Ojito! In the name of the king. They will have to recognize me that this very republican legal figure is not and will therefore have to recognize me that this government for fur leaves aside even its republicanism. [[Some applause.]] Well, now to a more serious tone, I'll tell you that with this decree law you want to use a legal shortcut to establish the regulation of the law that created the sugary beverage tax. The most appropriate thing – we all know – is that the regulatory development of a law is carried out by a decree or even by another law. And the Government of the Generalitat did so by decree, but it did so hastily and wrongly, without the slightest respect for the procedure to be followed. And it is that, lately, Mr Vice-President, you are walking very loosely, but very loosely, about respecting the procedures, perhaps you should take some course of law, an accelerated course of law. Mr Vice-President, you know that your Government has omitted binding and relevant procedures; not a form defect, no. Obligations and relevant, such as consultation with stakeholders, hearing with stakeholders and public information. All of them are regulated by the Law on the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations and by the Law on Transparency which we adopt in this Parliament. Although it was this Parliament that approved it, it will have to acknowledge to me, Mr Vice-President, that that of good government, to you, comes great, very great. Of course, as a number of laws were violated, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has had no choice but to declare the statutory decree invalid, by judgment of June this year. But instead of rehabilitating and doing the best on this occasion, you still stick to the shortcuts – I don't know what's going on with the shortcuts lately, but it seems like you've taken pleasure in taking democratic shortcuts and jumping over procedures and laws. But, in addition, you have an allergy to transparency, to consult those concerned, to listen to those, to the public information that requires processing as a regulatory decree, and that is why you have decided to do so by decree law, precisely because that gives you allergy. Thus the roller is allowed to be applied and to be silenced, and to something else. That says... Yes, you say that you do it out of urgency and necessity; yes, in that you do not lie. Do you know what urgency you have? Challenge their voracious collection appetite to precisely collect the 42_million that annually approximately are the ones who collect for that tax. That appetite is the one that leads them to do it urgently. We have always opposed this tax, we have done so so far, and we will continue to oppose those of a similar nature. And why? Well, because we understand that this kind of way, of promoting taxes to change healthier consumption habits are not effective. Look, you've mentioned Ivàlua, but the report itself, in its conclusions, tells us that with these conclusions, because they are based on simulation data, not on analyzed data, not on contrasting data, not on empirical data. That's what the Ivàlua says, page, I think it's 34. Read it right. And, moreover, it says..., we precisely want to rely on real data, not simulations, and what the data tells us – what the data tell us – is that consumption in Catalonia, after having applied the tax, has not decreased by a greater proportion than it is doing in other autonomous communities where this tax is not being applied, because it does not exist in any other autonomous community than in Catalonia. Therefore, if it were so effective, this consumption should have been reduced much more in Catalonia than in the rest of the communities. Which is not the case. Look, that taxes are not the most appropriate way, the most appropriate tool to change consumption habits shows us tobacco. In tobacco we find, say, the clearest paradigm, the most paradigmatic example. Okay? Look at Mireel tobacco and the tobacco industry is taxed. We practically know that 80_percent of the tobacco price is taxed and yet we all know and you the Generalitat too, that the way to end, in any case, with tobacco has never been taxed; it has had to resort to others. Why? Because the tax is not effective, and that is more than proven. I would therefore like to say to you that the most effective way of fighting against aspects on which we absolutely agree, eh? : obesity, overweight, is precisely, and here comes the difference, we believe that we have to establish programs and policies of citizen awareness, and that industry, and this is what you seem not to want to understand, is to make substitute and alternative products available to consumers. This requires continued, stable and continuous collaboration between the food industry, consumer associations and the Government. However, it is your desire to collect it that has caused you to implement here a bad copy of the tax that already exists in the United Kingdom, but a bad copy that does not establish, precisely, those stable channels of communication with all the actors concerned, which are the educational community, which are the consumer associations, which is the food industry. In short, this permanent dialogue that the Government does not want would allow us to make real proposals and make it effective, the fight against all that is, as has been said, cardiovascular diseases, obesity, overweight, which actually suffer from our societies every time. But in the face of collaboration and dialogue, the Generalitat imposes the "decree", imposes the decree law, because its purpose is collectative and not that of promoting healthier consumption habits. If the reason were this last one, don't forget that in 2017 the tax was put in place, you would have made much more investment; those 42_million you should have invested them precisely in a specific – specific – and intensive program to promote those habits. And the Generalitat hasn't. Those 42_million go, boom, somewhere else, but not for health. I would therefore like to say that we are opposed and opposed to this sugary beverage tax also because it is a triple discrimination. Look, the Catalan sugar industry is discriminated against, it is discriminated against in relation to other sugar-using industries which, however, are not mentioned here. There is no mention of companies which, using sugar, produce high-sugar products with even more calories. Here we pass points on that subject. The Catalan beverage industry is discriminated against in relation to the rest of the autonomous communities. Of course, it discriminates against her. And Catalan consumers are discriminated against in relation to consumers in other places, because they have to pay a tax, which is paid by consumers, not businesses, that is to say, by consumers. That is to say, consumers are taxed in relation to the rest of consumers in other autonomous communities, therefore, in Spain. In short, this Government wants to settle one legal stubble with another; it wants to tax rather than raise awareness and educate in healthy consumption. And, logically, on behalf of Citizens I have to tell you, Mr Vice-President, with us do not count. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.144.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Ms. Alicia Romero has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.145.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, vice president, counselors, deputies and deputies. Before I place myself on this decree by the government, I'd like to make a little history of this tax, because the councilman has skipped some chapters, and I think it's important to take it into account. This tax, together with four more, is passed on to the Law of fiscal and financial measures of the year 2017, March 2017. What did that mean? So there couldn't be a debate, there couldn't be any, obviously, appearances, we didn't listen to the eyes of the experts, we couldn't work with God to create a tax like this, which obviously has an import, as the counselor has said, rising. That's all we didn't have. However, we voted in favour of that bill of measures, in these distances from the creation of these taxes, because it seemed to us, therefore, that it was important. He said in his intervention: "The WHO has said that, at these times, obesity is one of the upheavals, one of the epidemics of the 21st century. It is to say that, in reality, it affects more than 1,900_million people in the world, in Catalonia it is between 50_per_cent..., the obesity affects people between divided and seventy-four years and 36,3_per_cent between the six and the twelve. It's like it's a tough problem to deal with. It's true. But we would be pleased if this imposition was a measure more, not a measure to resolve child obesity or obesity in general, which seemed to be what the vice president justified. Look, when that tax was approved, which I told you, we gave them this vote of confidence for the import and concern that carries, therefore, obedience at these times. After that, you took us to the head of a month, said the vice president "a few months, a few months, not a month, a decree to approve the rules that developed that tax. There we were very hard, we voted against it, because we told them that it was not well done, that it had worked with little rigour and that the decree generated legal uncertainty and many uncertainties in the Catalan food sector, both small and large. That's what we told you. And we also say that you skipped a few things like the public presentation, and you skipped those informal meetings that can be done with the sector, because you didn't find yourself there – you didn't find yourself there – at that time. And it seemed to us, therefore, that this was important. They create an imposition of those ways, so, as at least some informal finding of work could have been done. And what happened next? What was logical was that the past, that six associations, the most representative of the sector, had filed a complaint against that regulation. And the feeling. A very harsh, very clear feeling, which says..., man, very hard, and says that regulation is no rightful one, and, moreover, carries the costs to the Generality. What does the vice president say? "Well, supposed to be defective in form..., "different interpretation... Listen to one thing, Vice-President, the judgment quotes texts from the report of the Legal Affairs Committee, to which you tell him that you have not given enough reason for that rule to be well done. That is to say, said the Legal Affairs Committee, no longer the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which now seems to be painful too – here all courts are painful if they don't give us the right to do so. No, no, I mean, that's pretty clear. He said: "The Legal Affairs Committee considers that it would be better to justify the motiu or motius that explain the failure of the previous public consultation, establish in different articles. It's what the Legal Affairs Committee said. And then, obviously, the court says: "You have not complied with what the Constitution and the Law of Procedure say. Home, therefore, listen, is that it is so clear that I don't exactly know where you are saying that "supposed shape defects, "different interpretation. We know there's no way. Simply, you did the wrong thing, and, listen, that's it. And, look, I know this is hard, but you were in that department, you were the secretary of economics at the time, and you know things weren't going well. It appeared, a few months after the approval of that tax, an e-mail from the student secretary of Hysenda who said, about this tax: "We took on a tax like the drunks directly in the law of measures, without specific hearing with the sectors, with reckless calendars. We did it against the internal reports... that this wasn't holding out for the place and that we'd get blood. I know it's hard, but you recognized it at the time: it didn't work out. Then, as at least, Vice President, you come here a little more honest, a little more... "Listen to me, therefore, look, we have done this badly, now we will do it... It did not do well there, it did not do well that tax, neither that nor the others. And he recognized it, Mr. Saved your team. It seems very irresponsible to us. I read the speech I gave to the vice president the other day – at that time, Junqueras – and I said to him, "You don't have the credentials to make a better country. It'll be another country, but better yet, no. I didn't do well and I told them at the time. And this feeling gives us reason. And now you're almost here to present us with a very similar law decree, in which neither does it allow for public exposure and that these procedures are being carried out by the High Court of Justice and the Legal Commission. Honestly, Vice President, we don't understand why you want to do things wrong. I don't think it's that hard to do them good, and when they do, so do we, but in this case, I think, frankly, they've been wrong and they're wrong. Miri, about the tax, how we couldn't talk, because there was no debate in the creation of this one, we would like to make some reflections. You were talking about inequalities, weren't you? , or that consumes more or less sugar. I would like to say to him that, of course, when you carry on a concrete product, in this case, sweet drinks, it is true that they are not good for salvation, which will clearly affect the price. If this reduces the consumption of the drink, we agree. That's to say, this tax is to reduce the consumption of sugar beakers. There is no reduction in beak consumption – there is no reduction. No, you presented a study in which a brand of supermarkets explained that they had lowered consumption in their stores, in some stores. Can you do a serious study on the consumption of beguds in Catalonia? Because what the sector is telling us is that it hasn't lowered consumption. If you have not downloaded, this tax is not pursuing the object for which you are going to create. So, I have a doubt as to whether he really created for this or he created with a longing for re-readers. With a recaptator, it's what I wouldn't like. But I also gave it to Vice President Junqueras, at that time, if he's a confiscator, badly. And we believe that, beyond this imposition, we should have created policies around... It is true that there are programs at the Health Council. But, listen to me, I read the other day an agreement signed by the Ministry of Health of the State with the agri-food industry very interesting, that sets out different policies to develop together with the industry to reduce sugar, so there has been no publicity in the media directed at minors, what happens here, on TV3 we see, huh? So, how do they advertise sweet beguds directed to infants? That is to say, many policies that can be done together with the industry; do not see it as the demon, which you were here now too, Vice President, and it seemed that the industry is the demon. Listen, the industry is generating jobs and wealth in the territories. Yes, look, and I'm saying... – that the Councillor of Justicia makes gestures –, look, I'm telling you because now I'm going to read you something else that will surely end up giving me the reason. I don't think they should be so frivolous when they talk about some things. In any case, this tax, if it is not shown to reduce the consumption of sugary beaks, will end up giving us the reason that it was confiscator and, moreover, it is regression, because everyone will pay the same price for that moon, I earn fifteen_ thousand euros a year or in forty-five_ thousand. And so, so, we're gonna have to finish this adjective. I don't want to put it there yet, but we could put it there. And also in that debate, two years ago, he criticized me... Vice President Junqueras criticized me for saying that he was defending the sector. Well, he put up a mark. I don't want to put it down, I'll tell you later. Listen to me, though, what are we talking about, is that we can't defend industry in this country? We saw that Treball's advisor didn't do it, he got away, didn't he? Always carrying against another, there's always another more painful. But, listen, here's a responsibility. Mr. Salvadó said that, obviously, the economic sectors – in that famous email – were stressed and engaged – as was normal, right? – that he was the same and brought a lot of Coca-Cola, but the small distributors. So, miri, to us or Coca-Cola, which has a bottling plant in Martorelles, is contracted to eight hundred people, fourteen_ thousand indirect places, represents 0.5 of the Catalan GDP and is one of the three largest plants in Europe. Listen to one thing, less frivolity in this. And I do not say that there should be no tax, we voted in favour, but in any case, that it responds to the objective for which it was raised, because, if not, we are doing a weak favour, in general, to politics, but also, in this case, to industry. We would be pleased if this tax would reduce the consumption of truth. We would like you to meet with the sector and work together to reduce sugar to beguds, as well as advertising policies, other awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns. That's what we'd like. Because, when we look at data, then, they tell us that in the last fifteen years, for example, the sector has been reducing sugar in the beaks by 35_per_cent. It's got to be a lot more. So let's do it together with them. It's one of the things that we think isn't working, and that in these two years since the creation of the tax, it could have been done. And, please, they're also doing a serious study on consumption these past two years, from when the tax was created, to see if what you're actually saying right now is right here under your nose, so that's it or not. In any case, if we want more tickets, we know it too, courageous and ambitious tax reform in what pays the most you have, the most heretic and the most polluting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.146.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the name of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya in Comú Puem, Mrs Marta Ribas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.147.0	Thank you, President. After listening to the conservative right and right camouflaged by the socialists, who just surprised us with their speech [[remorse of the voice]] We are going to listen to some arguments of coherence from the left, from a parliamentary group that, as you know, is in favour of this imposition on the sugary sausages. Actually, let me, it's not flat, it's vanity, but it's good to make history, too. This very Member of Parliament, like the Member of Catalonia Yes, she is, at that time, she tried to push for this tax to be imposed on a young person, and they know that tomorrow we will have a young person who will vote on these issues, in the depth of the issue and providing the complexity of the issue. That imposition when it was approved was not simple and they pressured from various parliamentary groups, they pressured from various collectivities; in some cases, for some members of the government, we had the feeling that we were hiring them a complaint. And it was a simple imposition to make that of the sugary beaks packed. It is only a small part of what must be done in tax policies with a view to public salvation. This summer we had bad news, a judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that gave partial reason to the food industry and the marketing sector falling the rule that develops technical and management aspects of this tax. We already told them then that we are in favour of the tax and that, therefore, we would not be in a problem that we could solve in the best way that there were no insecurities. We also told them in their moment, when they approved it, that we thought that, in shapes, they weren't doing very well and that there were details that weren't going well. Still, we've put up with it, and obviously, today we're going to do it again. And, in fact, the court – and we congratulate ourselves on it – has not entered the foundation of the question, has not fallen the foundation of the question, has not fallen the impost, only the regulation for formal questions. I am counting on us, therefore, today with the favourable vote for the approval that the Councillor brings us. But, I take advantage of the intervention to say that the tax on sugary beakers is a useful tool for changing consumption habits, for reducing maladies, for improving the health of the people, for reducing health costs, but it is only a small thing. We can't stay here. It does not serve us the right, nor the conservativeism disguised as socialism, but neither does appearances, only save appearances, which is what has been done at the moment, only making this tax. If we really want to make courageous policies that attack the excess of sugar, the problems that lead to salvation, the problems that lead to social and genera, with a social and genera perspective, the spatially social impact on the lower classes and the less-favored children, the less-favored families, and the extra health expenditure that leads to us as a society, we cannot just be taxed on the sugary drunks. The WHO has for many years been demanding that we fight against all the food that has excess sugar, excess salt, excess saturated fat, and that is not only done with educational measures, but also regulation, to enter the market and, obviously, tax. Tomorrow, we'll try to make them go beyond that. So, if we've seen a part of the portrait before today, we'll just have to see it all tomorrow. Tomorrow, that speech the vice president made to us, we want to see if it's true. We are going to defend the interests of the majority, of the citizenry and of the common good, such as health and the health system, facing the lobby or only making appearances in what has been more simple, which was the tax of the sugary drunks. Tomorrow they will have to retract if they want this tax, for example, to increase, but above all, if they want there to be more, taxes of this type, on all the foods that contain sugar, which, in fact, the majority of the sugar we have or for which we feed extra is not for sugary drinks, it is for many other things. But also if we want to attack other types of food that cause our problems of heavy salvation, of public salvation, to our society today, such as salt or saturated grasses. Foods, not just beguds. Also if they want to put in place regulatory measures of the market and advertising, indeed, not just of pact with industry, but of obligation, which is complete. And if they want to pose strong and consistent public policies to make them healthier. Above all, this is what we will have to say tomorrow in the motion of my parliamentary group. Lobbying won't make it easy. They didn't make it easy for the sugary beaks; they don't make it easy, because today it's revalidated, that there's no insecurities and you can keep charging, and they won't make it easy especially to try to get to the bottom of the issue. But that's why the question is: are we here to do politics for the majority or are we here to do politics for a minority who are getting rich on the basis of hurting the majority of the population? We're not here to hide ourselves from the big corporations and their interests. We meet with them, we talk to them about our arguments, but we don't hide and keep our proposals. In Spain, ills related to unhealthy food are the first public health problem today, before tobacco. Tobacco – and we have not yet managed to put an end to its consequences – we have approached it with health policies, educational policies and strong tax and price policies. Now we have a problem that is harder in public health than tobacco and or we approach it all folded..., and that is not only with agreements with industry – also with agreements with industry, but not only with agreements with industry, as the PSOE government is trying to do from the state – but also with measures regulating the market and with tax measures. In Catalonia, the ills that cause public health problems caused by unhealthy food can be calculated to make a couple of thousand dead in the year. We talk about the dead, and a lot of people with health problems – heavy, chronic – and a very important healthcare expense in our public system. And the perspective is that it's much worse, because childhood obesity or overweight has tripled in the last few years. Either we approach it bravely, or we follow it to the lobby, which they will try – very legitimately – to keep their winnings in this sector. We're not going to go with the lobby, we're going for the rights of the majority, and so tomorrow we're going to make them decide if they're going to be okay, just with this tax, or we're going to be more. If public greetings or lobbying take precedence; interests of the majority or benefits of only a few.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the CUP - Crida Constituent, has the word Ms Maria Sirvent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.149.0	Well, let's say that we respect this decree in a very synthetic way. This is a tax that is already coming from the year 2013, and that in the year 2013 there was already the proposal on the table. It is true that the lobbyists, the merchants, the distributors, were very poorly placed, with this tax, because they were not interested in people who were serious in their economic activity, said Mrs Ribas that with a very legitimate position; for us it is not legitimate for anyone to get rich at the expense of precaritating our lives and influencing our salvation negatively. This imposition, in the end, is a measure more of all the measures that can be promoted to improve public salvation, and in the end it is simply a pal·liatiu imposition. But what happened? What happened is that at the end of this tax was approved with the law of measures of the assumptions of the year 2017, and later, one_me later, it was necessary to make a decree that developed this tax regularly because it could be done. We have already been pleased that this tax is done when it was playing and as it was playing, but that was not so and we had to do a lot of work in this sense. Now there are some who will say that this tax has no meaning, or that this tax was born in a certain way that was no longer available, and the High Court of Justice has ruled and has said that it did not comply with the public disclosure procedure. Here we see a more show of class justice, because we have not seen justice at the moment to rule on the non-respect of public statements, for example, respect for the Castor project, when we have had to pay 1,350_million euros to Mr Florentino; we have not seen anyone, or to any court, speak of the fact that the citizen was not escorted when the law was approved and the consequences that it had respect for political dissent and its management on the part of state apparatuses; nor was the worker escorted when the reform work was carried out, and the citizen was not escorted when Article 135 of the Constitution was modified, by asking for the best of the interests of the court or the court of law to hear cases of corruption, or to hear cases of corruption. But, of course! When it comes to touching the interests of the lobbyists, the interests of certain businesses that they are making are enriching themselves at the expense of our salvation, then the courts do say it quickly and they do know what to say and what to stop saying. And now you're coming to give us lessons from the right. Today my company Vidal Aragonese said: the right is not neutral, and the feelings and resolutions are not neutral either. And in this case, the High Court of Justice has ruled not in favour of citizenship and people's rights, but in favour of the rights and economic benefits of certain distribution companies, and this is not the first time we have seen it. And, therefore, we will continue to defend a redistribution of the rich much different from the present, a tax system that receives the interests of the citizenry before the economic interests. And today we can read in the diary that the government is preparing various fiscal reforms, or that it has various proposals for the assumptions, Mr Aragonès, but we still don't know them. In fact, the only information we have is what we have seen in the paper; you see that you are talking to some partners who want to approve the assumptions, but it would be good if you explained to us, to the rest of the chamber, who are their intentions according to the tax model. We do not see in this government the intention of making a radical turn, as people deserve, to respond to the needs of this country's resources and social needs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.150.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.151.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies, first of all, we'll do three points, huh? , about this law decree. But the first one I have to tell you is a totality puzzle, huh? It's the opposition to the tax. Just as we thought about 2017, we keep thinking about today. And you justify it for the focus, let's say, sanitary, for the focus of salvation. Miri, if you have this health focus, health focus, this decree you have defended the Councillor of Salut, you have not defended it the Councillor of Hisenda – among other things, Councillor of Hisenda. This is the first element that tells us clearly which is the government's authentic will. So you don't have a health focus but just hysendistic; it's exclusively recaptatori, right? There's another question I think you're dealing with, isn't there? When you talk about the industry: "What if the industry that I pay, that I don't have so many benefits, that I don't know what, that I don't know what else... But what are we in? That tax that pays him? Is that what industry or the consumer is about? Who should not consume sugar, industry or the consumer? The tax is a tax that goes on the consumer, it should be paid by the consumer, who should be convinced not to drink sugar because they are painful for salvation. No, but you think of the industry: "Oh, the industry! What a payoff! Coca-Cola, that I paid, that these guys earn a lot of money, that they pay! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Listen, you're contradicting yourself, in this sense, because, man, I think you're also aware of it: you really think that someone, at the boat – at the boat, I say, eh? –, will you stop buying a sugar soda launa because it's worth five cents more than a sugar-free launa? Do they really believe that? No, that's not it – that's not it. And I'm talking about the boat. Why? Because in the restaurant sector, in bars... – the Horeca sector: inn, restaurant, coffee – there is no price difference – there is no price difference. Therefore, the first element: this is not a tax that goes to salvation; it is a tax that goes to recapitulation and for the sole interest of the same government. Second element: the increase in sugar-free begud consumption, which in the later years is viewing itself in a more intense – and later – way, did not begin 2017 with the generality's tax. And it doesn't just go to Catalonia, it goes to all of Spain. And it's been years since the trend of consumption, that people's consumption habits are reducing the consumption of sugary beaks. That's why so many variants without sugar, lights, zeros, etc. have appeared. And that's why they earn market share – that's why they earn market share. Miri, the year 2017 to all of Spain – I'm talking about all of Spain because you see that this is not the effects of the Catalan tax – Coca-Cola – that someone brings to it flows – had a 40_percent share of the market of sugar-free beguds: of its products, 40_percent of those that it marketed were sugar-free. 2017. 2018 is 52_per_cent– 52. And this is not the fruit of the Catalan tax: this is all of Spain. Why? Because consumption habits vary, too, fortunately, and vary in this sense and to this situation. And the third element that I wanted to comment on, has already been said – it has already been said –, right? Indeed, we are validating a decree dropped by the High Court of Justice, because the decree was not put to public display. Mrs Romero has already given them all the arguments, from the same judgment of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, the arguments given by the same judgment, the reports of the Legal Affairs Committee, but, listen'm..., more clearly the e-mail quoted by Mrs Romero of Mr Salvadó, of the Deputy Salvadó, two days before – two days before – that the Government approved the decree. It is not, then, extemporanean, no: two days before the government approves the decree. "We've taken a heavy duty directly to the law of measures without a specific hearing process to the affected sectors, with reckless timetables... I've been against internal reports; that's not going to hold up. And I'm getting rid of what's going on, huh? « This doesn't hold up for the place. And the government says that it was convinced that it was not necessary, the hearing process, if the secretary of Hysenda said it was, did it say it was? But it goes on, doesn't it? « Affected economic sectors are stressed and engaged [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] What we've done with sweet drinks will not be done any more; it was a mistake, and mostly my mistake. I – I just went on – just said: « Throwing down assumptions with partners that the real world got fucked up is not a plan. So in català, in castella and in scrugati...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.152.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.153.0	...we will vote against the validation of this decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.154.0	It is now the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Alfons Montserrat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.155.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Vice President, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies. As you well know, and it has been widely debated in this chamber, the Government of Catalonia, in these past years, has been developing a prolific fiscal task, creating nine tax figures from a competitive _framework that, unfortunately, each time the feelings of the Constitutional Court have been reduced, uncertain and random. The objective of the Department of Economics and History, which has been well-shared in these past few years for most of this chamber, has been to drive us to tax props, often innovative in fiscal matters, often marking the way that after other territories of the State have followed, assuming a clear leadership role driving progressive, environmentally sustainable and socially advanced policies. Tax initiatives that, as you know, have a double objective: to increase, on the one hand, the Government of the Generality's very few entries so as to be able to deal with the growing expenditure mainly on social matters and, on the other hand, to combat certain negative externalities of our society, already in environmental, social issues, such as housing, or in matters of salvation, such as today's case. In these past years the Generality has created eleven tax figures, three of which have been annulled by the Constitutional Court at the request of the Spanish Government: the digital channel, the nuclear tax and the bank tax. And there are still pending judgements on the tax on empty habitats, the tax on CO2 emissions from mechanical traction vehicles and the tax on non-productive acts of legal persons. More than this dispute of the Spanish Government, there has also been a classic resort to the opposition of the great employers, precisely because of this willingness to increase the generality's tax receipts by requiring greater fiscal effort from those who have or may have more. This is the case of banks, large housing estates, large commercial areas, nuclear power stations or aviation companies, among others. Therefore, we find that the great economic powers, when asked for a major contribution effort, defend their corporate interests, which often do not coincide with the general interest of society. We find ourselves like this today with a case more than this chamber has experienced in the past few years, the Administration fighting, decreed in hand, to defend this general interest in the law firm of the great employer. If we make a quick review, we will remember that the tax on the sugary beaks has been created, through Law 5/2017 and that Decree 73/2017 makes the development of regulations. A rule which was objected by six employers' associations, led by the National Association of Large Distribution Companies, to an appeal filed before the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which, in its Judgment 588, annulled this decree in order to understand that there was a formal defect in its processing, without entering the Fund. Therefore, in no case did he question the legality of the tax. So we find ourselves with a law that creates the tax, that is in force and, therefore, generates obligations. And with a decree that makes the development of the rule that is annulled, even though the sentence is still not on hold, since the Generality could challenge it before the Supreme Court. The fact is that this situation can lead to obvious difficulties in its effective application of the tax. And in order to avoid any misadjustment in the obligation of income from the tax and the resulting legal insecurity that this would generate, it is presented to validate this new regulatory provision, which does not contemplate any of the essential elements, given that these are already collected to the law, but only retrospect aspects related to the management of the tax. A tribute that, I would like to point out, pursues an extrafiscal objective, such as fighting a negative externality by correcting health problems and encouraging a healthier lifestyle. Here is to say that the use of taxes to combat negative externalities is already widely theorized and contrasted, which is the way to meet those hidden costs that are not collected at the price. Therefore, in this sense the tax was created to fight against the prevalence of diseases associated with obesity following the recommendations of the WHO, which concludes that the reduction in weights resulting from the decrease in the consumption of sugar beaks entails an enlargement and better quality of life related to the salvation of the population. And so they understand countries with Portugal, Denmark, France, Austria, United Kingdom, Mexico, various cities of the United States with Chicago, Philadelphia, San Francisco, etc., which have already incorporated it. This is to say that the impact of the tax is concrete not only for the part of the demand in a certain contraction, but also in adjustments for the part of the offer increasing and giving more presence to low product ranges with low sugar levels. In our home, after more than two years of working on the tax, it is necessary that we make a critical assessment and, to this end, I want to recall the excellent work done by the Catalan Institute for the Evaluation of Public Policies, Ivàlua, which in the case of this tax concludes that it is an efficient tax in economic terms, because it supposes a better in the salvation of the population and a saving in the costs for society. And it contemplates that in a scene of a reduction in consumption of a 15_per_cent would represent an estavi de vora..., a little more than 60,000_million euros, a gain of vora 9,400 years of life and a million of almost 25,000 years of life adjusted for disability. And that in a more moderate scene of a 2.2_per_cent reduction, the benefits would be a 7_million-euro hedgehog, a 1,300-year-old gain and a little over 3,500-year-old disability-adjusted gain. And in this same line, for example, the Catalan Pediatric Society, which claims the maintenance of the tax, considers that in Catalonia almost 36_percent of infants, between six and twelve years, has excess weights, of which we would have 10_percent are obese and 25_percent are overweight. Or the Catalan Society of Family and Community Medicine, which also positively values the implementation of the donated tax that has a significant impact on the prevalence of diseases such as obesity, diabetes and caries. Respectfully, it notes that 51_percent of people who divide to seventy-four years suffers from an excess of significant weights, of which 15_percent are obese. And that highlights that the prevalence of obesity is even higher among the lowest of the most disadvantaged social classes. Or finally we would also have the College of Dietists-Nutricionists of Catalonia that is positioned in the same line of warning the harm that would suppose for public salvation not to implement this measure. Therefore, in view of the scientific evidence, the references of other countries and the experience we have had these two years in our home, we consider that we should maintain the tax and continue working for a healthy diet. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.156.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elena Fort has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.157.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, advisors and advisors, deputies and deputies, our task as a policy consists in responding to the needs of the citizenry and if they rise, and as far as possible, generating all the solutions to the collective and individual problems that they pose to us, as we did in a statement approving the modification of the Civil Code, to guarantee the rights of sensory disabilities. In the field of salvation, obviously, it is also in our hands to propose and agree on all possible measures that help us to improve it. It is precisely in the realm of salvation that a very important challenge arises in later years. One of the main and growing concerns in the field of public salvation has been and is the scourge of overweight and obesity. The World Health Organization has declared this disease as the epidemic of the 21st century, and has become the major global health problem of today. Currently, it's the top five risk factor for death in the world. In Catalonia, the 2017 Esca Health Survey of the Year shows a significant increase in problems related to excess feet, both in adults and in infants. The excess of fish affects more than half of the adult population and, within this group, the percentage of overweight people is maintained stable, but obesity continues to feel the trend growing and is at 14.9_per_cent. For what it does to the child population, 36,3_per_cent of six and twelve years is overweight, of which 12,6_per_cent is obese. And it's percentages that grew. The fight against this disease, in any case, involves the adoption of cross-cutting measures and the exercise of transformative policies that generate changes in the population and also changes in the industry. In the event of the World Health Organization's actions on this issue, in 2016, the Commission, in order to end child obesity, issued a report, taken for the World Health Assembly, in which among many measures it set out an innovative measure: measure 1.2, which is to focus on global action to eradicate the utter malaise also from the fiscal sphere, with a measure such as to create a tax on the consumption of sugar bean, which is one of the foods causing the most malaise. The Generalitat de Catalunya, will always, in the case of its fiscal powers and as appropriate tax, create the tax on the sugary beguds containing the Law 5/2017, of 28 March, of fiscal, administrative and financial measures of the public sector. The legal regulation establishes that the tax is taxed on the consumption of sweetened sugars and is payable to the entire Catalan territory independently of its place of manufacture. The statutory deployment of the law was carried out by means of Decree 73/2017 of 20 June, where the technical and practical questions of management over the tax, such as the definitions of some concepts, the formal obligations of the tax obligations, the period of liquidation of the tax or the time of presentation of the autoliquidations, or the management and verification powers of the territorial delegation of the Tax Agency of Catalonia, were regulated. The decision against an administrative appeal and, on 28 June 2019, the TSJ of Catalonia issued an estimate of the judgment annulling it in order to detect, it has already been repeated, defects in form in its processing, which, in no case, fall within the scope of the claim. And, therefore, the current situation is that we have a legal, effective, valid tax and an nullified development rule. And that's what we need to decide at this point, and that's what we need to solve. Mr. Rodriguez, Mr. Espinosa, Mrs. Romero, who is not the time to discuss this tax right now, has already been approved and, therefore, can't hold an election rally again. Now we're trying to solve a technical problem of a tax that exists, that we have to apply and that we have an invalidated regulation. The sentence is not firm, today it is to settle a request for completion, clarification and correction of errors and, in any case, the formalization of a cassation action before the Supreme Court is pending. Therefore, I repeat, we have a tribute that is worthy and an obligation that is maintained to present the self-liquidation of the tax, but in change we have a regulation and some management standards that are in the area. The possibility of a short-term execution of a judgment, because a request for provisional execution is allowed or because the future cassation appeal is not allowed, which may happen, in a situation of misadjustment, as long as these technical rules of application are still missing, because the liquidation could not be done. Therefore, this generates a situation of insecurity, which is what we are trying to resolve today when the validation of this decree is laid down. It is therefore necessary and urgent to establish this technical regulation, so that judicial vicissitudes do not lead to such conflicts of legal uncertainty. And this urgency for the eventual executive of the sentence is that it discourages the processing of a new regulatory arrangement or for an ordinary law of the Parliament, by urgency procedure, because in both cases it is calculated that the approximate processing time can exceed the seven-eighth months, time limit that exceeds in creases the eventuality of the executive of the..., of the possible executive of the sentence. The decree that now brings the Government to validation strictly includes the content of the approved regulation, as the councillor has already said and may not have returned to it, simply changes a numbering of the articles because it makes article 2–1 and 2 disappear – that they were close to a regulatory figure and not a law decree, and does not include a judicial provision, forgiveness, a final provision that provides for a transitional rule on the subject of technical adequacy. Therefore, the decree that is leading to validation does not bring any novelty or modification of a regulation that has already been approved. From the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia we will vote in favour of validation and ask the rest of the groups that they also do, not only because it is a demand of the World Health Organization, which seems to obliterate some companies when they have made their speech, but because we are closing its effectiveness, since its application for almost two years has given excellent results. They say there's no report, but I haven't been looking and I've found it. According to the recent report prepared by the Center for Research in Economics and Health – CRES – of Pompeu Fabra University and the University of Barcelona, a reduction in consumption of this type of begud of 22_per_cent has been detected. It is, therefore, the effect of this tax and this has only been in two years. They can't fail in this fight. And this is only one of the many measures of full intervention necessary in the fight against a disease that has become an epidemic, but a measure that is proving effective and that must tend, like the transformative policy, that the food industry is looking for healthy alternatives and less harmful for people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.158.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll go to the vote. As stipulated in Rule 158.3 of the Rules, as you know, it is understood that the affirmative votes are in favour of the validation of the Decree Law 13/2019 and that the negative votes are in favour of the derogation. Let us then proceed to the vote. The vote begins. With the result, Decree 13/2019_is validated by 74 votes in favour, 4 against and 52 abstentions. Once validated, I'd like to ask the chamber if there are any parliamentary groups that want to process this decree as the bill. [[Pause.]] Don't you? So, as long as there is no petition in this sense, the law decree will not be dealt with as a bill of law and is validated. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet. [[Procedure for electing four members of the Board of Governors of the Institut Català Internacional per la Pau]] [[284-00003/12]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the procedure for electing four members of the Board of Governors of the Institut Català Internacional per la Pau. In accordance with Article 7 of Law 14/2007 of 5 December 2007 of the Català Internacional per la Pau Institute, as amended by Law 11/2011 of 29 December 2011, the Català de Foment de la Pau Council proposed eight candidates from which Parliament does not have to elect four. In this sense, I am sure that the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group Republicà, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Communal May and the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Cree have submitted a proposal with four candidates. The first three candidates are to fill vacancies by termination of office and the latter is a replacement for one vacancy by death. The candidates are the following: Ms. Carme Colomina and Saló, Ms. Gemma Casal and Fité, Mr. Marco Aparicio Wilhelmi and Ms. Magda Oranich and Solagran. Can this proposal be approved for consent? Don't you? We shall therefore proceed to vote. [[Susana Beltrán García asks to speak.]] Yes, Miss Beltran. Say'm. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For reasons of vote, we put the vote first and then intervened to justify the position. Or, if it's to position himself politically, he's got three minutes now, so. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.159.0	Thank you. The Institut Català Internacional per la Pau is an institute that has such important functions as the promotion of pau, it is contributing to the peaceful resolution of disputes and delaying coexistence. He asks the Parliament, because, moreover, the Institute for Pau is an institute of the Parliament of Catalonia, he asks the Parliament to vote for the members of the Government of this institute, who are the ones to work for peace and coexistence. The socialists, the commons, the UPC, the independentist parties have voted for a list or, more clearly, present a list in which they do not contemplate any of the candidatures that we are going to present. According to the law, political parties, therefore, we can also submit applications between people of recognizable prestige, prestige in issues of pau, in issues of resolution of conflicts, experts or experts in issues of international public law and who have a career path of recognized professional merits. I am deeply sorry, political parties, that these candidatures have not been taken into account, not so much as the debate has been taken into account, that I liked them and, moreover, that they have allowed me to convince, deserve to the front, if any of these candidatures did not deserve to be in the government of the Institute for the Pau, that one of its functions, I insist, is to build the cock. The problem with this, which is not represented by any of these two candidatures, is that 1,100,000 Catalans are no longer represented in this government. How is it possible to build the pau in a government in which this 1,100,000 Catalans are not represented? How can you build the cock? [[Greetings.]] How is it possible to build the dick in an institute that gave support to the U of October 2017, which gave support to the illegal referendum, which was the black day, both for Catalans who went to vote as for Catalans who did not go to vote? How can you build the cock? [[Greetings.]] How can the pau be built, leaving behind the first party of the Parliament of Catalonia, without having discussed the candidatures before? How can it be? And here, I have to say, or, I am deeply sorry, I liked this discussion, I liked this debate, I liked the fact that those people who had all the professional merits, like at least, have taken them into account and, today, the government of the Catalan Institute for Peace has also had a representation of 1,100,000 Catalans, who have now left absolutely out. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.160.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Yeah. Mr. Pedret. Mr. Pedret, Mr. Forné and Mr. Segovia, we do so by this order, if you want: Mr. Pedret, Mr. Forné after and Mr. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.161.0	Thank you, President. In short, to clarify the position of our group respect this question, which has been raised by the intervention of Mrs Beltrán. Perhaps not everyone who is in this debate is aware of the mechanisms through which the election of the members of the management of the Institut Català Internacional per la Pau is usually produced. They come, as some of us here have the obligation to know, from a proposal made in the Català de Foment de la Pau Council, in which any of the vowels of the Català de Foment de la Pau Council, therefore, the parliamentary groups, but also the entities and federations of entities can make proposals for names and, indeed, they have proposed eight names, of which, as the places to be covered are only four, cannot all be elected. The groups that supported the proposal that was moved because it was voted for this plenary of Parliament adopted a criteria, which is to propose the first four of the eight names that they proposed, that is, the four that had obtained the most support in the vote that was produced with an urn in the Catalan Council for the Promotion of the Pau. This implies that among the chosen profiles, therefore, there is not for all tastes and colors. And, indeed, there are not two of the proposals for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which, if I did not misunderstand the intervention of the same Member of Parliament Beltran in the case of the Catalan Council for the Promotion of the Pau, were not proposed as militants, affiliates or persons necessarily partisans of the Ciutadans Group, but by virtue of their curriculum, experience, etc. It's more, I think I remember that there, if not, in conversation with you – and I don't reveal any secret – I told you that I felt it was hardly reasonable that any of the people, following the résumé that I had, had obtained so little support, probably only because of the fact that it was proposed for their parliamentary group. So I can recognize that. But what I think is that at the Institut Català Internacional de la Pau and, concretely, its direction, it does not have to have a representation proportional to the obtained for the different matches in this chamber, but there is a mechanism that produces this result, but it is a mechanism that we all know and that was used previously and the criteria adopted was that of the support obtained in the case of the Conseil Català de Foment de la Pau. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.162.0	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Furné. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.163.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly, because Congressman Pedret has perfectly explained the mechanism and, therefore, in this sense, we are not approving some candidates from one and the other, but we are using a mechanism, which is what the Catalan Institute makes of a series of names that come from the list of eight people. Here we are not appreciating the quality of people, all eight have this quality and, therefore, we are, quite simply, conveying those. Finally, in the Ciutadans Group, he was proposed to sign the list of the four, he did not want... Now, the one who actually uses a vote of four people, who have a recognition, and do this rally of pau and when, somehow, instead of using democracy, which is the vote, in which there are not only political group participants, because there is no political group, but there are other entities and institutions, there, and therefore, it is the result of an agreement of the Catalan Institute. To use this to hold a rally and barrage that if 1,100,000 people, etc., this is to use demagogicism, which is the opposite of democracy. [[Greetings.]] The pau is built with democracy, not demagoguery. I'm very sorry, but using this is a bad way. There was the way... Mr. Pedret has explained the way to do it, so let's close this vote and those names, without – without, really, eh? ...the merits of the other four people, who were left out, but in any vote, someone is left out and the four people have recognitions, it's that nobody tells them... and they don't go there like representatives of. Therefore, we respect the democracy of the Catalan Institute, which, in reality, is what builds poverty, democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.164.0	Mrs. Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.165.0	Yeah. Thanks to previous interventions, I can save one thing that the Ciutadan Group should know how it works, which is the law that promoted the creation of the Catalan International Institute for the Pau and the Pau Promotion Council, I think it is also a duty of Members and Members, here, to know the laws governing the organs of which we participate as parliamentary groups. It has already been explained how the procedure went. I, now, would only like to read quickly the people who make up the Council of Promotion for the Pau or... the institutions, not just the people, without counting the people who come from the Government, or continue, only those who go from within the civil society – I will try to go quickly –: School of Culture for the Pau of the Autonomous University of Barcelona; the Catalan International Institute for the Pau, which, there is insistence, is an independent entity; the parliamentary groups, all those who have representation in this Parliament; the Catalan Fund for Cooperation in Development, which represents more than two hundred municipalities of Catalonia – of course, it is true that with the City does not have a mass presence in municipal governments, therefore it can be said here that the Catalan Institute of Cooperation in Development, which represents more than two hundred municipalities of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University of Catalonia, the University, the University of Catalonia, the University of the University of Catalonia, the University, the University, the University of the University of the University of the University, the University of the University of the University, the University of the University of the University of the University, the University of the University of the University of the University, the University, the University, the University of the University, the University, the University, the University, the University of the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University of the University, the University, the University, the University of the University of the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University of the University, the University, the University, the University, the University, the University of the University, the University of the University of the University of I can follow, can't I? because there have also been permanent guests. All these people could make nominations for the ICPI Board of Governors. Whoever did it, who didn't do it, didn't do it. The Ciutadans Group did this, other parliamentary groups did not do it. We found each other one day, they exposed the candidates, we made a vote, we put some criteria like, for example, the issue of parity and territorial equity, and he voted in secret vote and the people who came out came out. That is what we are voting for today: the result of a participatory process by a regular consultative body for a law; not the representation of political groups. This is to respect the institutions of Catalonia as well and not to fill your mouth when it suits us and prostitute them when it suits us. [[Greetings.]] And it seems to me that jumping off this representation is what proves once more that the censorship motion of the other day was nothing more than a scene. So... I would also like to know what the people who Ciutadans proposed in that Pau Promotion Council of the intervention that the Ciutadans Group made today think; I don't know if they would be willing to do it again. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr. Soler, do I ask for the word...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.167.0	Yes, President, from the same sco. From the Republican Parliamentary Group we ratify in the interventions that have obviously taken place, except for the intervention of Mrs Beltrán. It is clear that the names proposed are from a proposal of the same institute, from a more technical than non-political criteria, and therefore what we are doing is ratifying this proposal. And finally, if I may, Mrs Beltrán, do not bind this decision, this appointment to the U of October; do not bind this fact, because precisely, if someone did not make it possible that the stick is preserved during that day were not precisely the independence parties. I can understand that you are in the electoral campaign, but in politics it is not all right: stick to the truth and facts. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.168.0	They have been able to talk to all the parliamentary groups, it was a turn to expose the position of each parliamentary group; now we will not get into a debate. I have given the word to all the parliamentary groups; therefore, we shall proceed to the vote. [[Susana Beltrán García asks to speak.]] Miss Beltrán, for contradictions no. You have wondered, all the parliamentary groups have spoken, let us proceed to the vote. A vote that remembers that it is electronic and in this case secret, comply with the Rules of Parliament, specifically rule 101.3. Therefore, they will have to vote normally and will not come out in the panel that you have voted for each Member. Let us therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. [[Greetings.]] The result was the following: 91 votes in favour, 35 against and 4 abstentions. The four candidates nominated as members of the Board of Governors of the Institut Català Internacional per la Pau, as well as the required majority of two-thirds, according to Law 14/2007, are therefore more than ninety votes in favour. Yes, Mrs. Beltran? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Miss Beltrán, I've already given the word, don't wander insisting. I've already told him that all parliamentary groups have been positioned... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Miss Beltran... don't insist, you don't have the word. We suspend the session until three-quarters of the late four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.169.0	Well, good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Let's resume the session. [[Inquiries to the Government on Climate Emergency]] [[300-00172/12]] The sixth item on the agenda is the question to the Government on climate change, an question presented by the Socialist and Unites-Development Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jordi Terrades. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.170.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I ask you this question for various reasons, some that affect your government and the little you decide to see them. We have always said – Mr. Miquel Iceta has done this in his parliamentary office – that he has bought the loyal work of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, in everything that refers to mitigation policies, adaptation to climate change, energy transition and economic transition. We would be wrong, from our point of view, if climate policies in fessibly excessive political confrontation. And another of the reasons for this inquiry we find it..., also explains why two weeks ago, all over the planet, starting with United Nations and ending up in the streets and places of our cities, has repositioned the media focus on the climate emergency we are living in. And in the Parliament of Catalonia we were incapable and incapable, all folded, of arriving at a minimum consensus to make a declaration, make a declaration and reach some agreement. There was not one basic, for us, that our own and that we will come back to propose in the motion that we are presenting, that is that this Parliament values the possibility of creating a climate change commission to follow all these policies, and, moreover, to be purposed. We know very hard that the parliamentary groups were not able to reach a minimum agreement to make this institutional declaration, which was when it was played, two weeks ago. We have probably been relieved – as in the least, by our group – of this inquiry. Journalist and author David Wallace-Wells said in a recent interview that the big problem is not the denial of climate change, it's the indifference that sometimes occurs. Why go to 10 or 15_per_cent that still deny the climate change is wasting time. For many powerful people who are still, it's Trump, it's Bolsonaro or here, yesterday, huh? , through the FAES, the one who had been president of Espanya, Mr. José María Aznar, who said– and was so broad– that « the fight against climate change seeks to end free societies– I quote this textually. But in Catalonia, Spain, Europe, also in the United States, the vast majority of citizens and citizens believe that climate change is a fact; the problem is that very few citizens and citizens are – are – willing to take radical measures. In Catalonia our scientists have also warned us of the consequences and measures that when adopting the third report on climate change, it makes a couple of years still not, with the cases it presented. True, there are conflicting interests, sure, productive sectors that have preventions, but reality is coughing and phenomena do not go unnoticed. But why was Parliament unable to adopt an institutional declaration two weeks ago? Or why has there been a certain indifference in our society, which is also there? Home, Mr. Calvet, a good part is responsibility... not directly, but..., of the government's collection. Because you – I have to admit – make politically correct, well-intentioned speeches, even if you're going now also fifteen days in New York, but don't lead climate policies, from our point of view, or with the firmness that should be planted. Years ago we raised them, to the government and to the majority that sustains it, the need to remake a climate summit in Catalonia, with the participation of everyone: not only of the institutions, not only of the political parties, but of social, environmental, economic agents, to seek consensus, to seek agreements, to seek a way forward. In July of Enguany, not long ago, the Ple del Parlament gave a mandate to the Government in this sense: to re-celebrate a climate summit in Catalonia in the terms I have proposed. We ask them: do you have a date to do or to propose this summit? Can you announce it to us? Is anyone preparing it? Because a summit, if you want to get some results, someone has to prepare it, you can't improvise. A summit that, from our point of view, has to be used to put the ecological transition and the energy transition in the color of a new country project. There'll be other questions, too, won't there? But this is the color of the proper years in our country. And speaking of energy transition, this very July plenary to which I referred was in charge of repealing Decree 149/2009, which is a col d'ampolla because renewable energies, therefore, settle with a certain generation capacity in Catalonia. Mr Calvet, look, the proposal that we are making is easy: it is not a matter of making a decree again; they make a decree law. That the government makes a decree to you and that you bring him to Parliament to make the repeal of that others. From here, I have emphasized it: the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units will give it support. But it's urgent that this new stager can set up. We talk a lot about plans, reports, agendas. That same morning, in an answer you gave to Mrs Artadi, she kept insisting on these issues, didn't she? But we have not just seen commitments of truth. The Councillors' agendas are well emptied of these commitments, which are then presupposed resources. We are referring to economic commitments, of course, but also to actions of leadership, as I said before, of exemplary follow-up: to reach consensus, starting with the assemblies, which will be one of the protagonists, right? From this transition that we will have to generate among all of us. Generate new projects, projects that are ambitious– projects that, from a point of view of occupation and creation of wealth, are opportunities–; investments in renewable energy... And, of these, we don't see one, do we? Other autonomous communities, even with fewer skills than those marked by the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy to the Government of the Generality, have spent a long time in front of us. And the dial? Because, in order to build this great consensus, which does not mean unanimousness, it is necessary to dialogue. I don't know if they're doing it with other parliamentary bow formations. I tried to put the earring here; the answer was the same for everyone, wasn't it? Dialeg, poquet, huh? Let me give you an example: the National Energy Transition Pact, which sometimes some members of the Government fill their mouths. And there was a meeting – one – with parliamentary formations, not one more; a meeting and never again knew, huh? That's very difficult, building consensus, isn't it? Or how we reduce CO2 emissions, especially the diffuses, right? They are produced through transport. Sometimes we have the feeling – it's not the first time I tell you – to go enough to trailer from local administrations. If we talk about the restrictions of the most polluting cars, which will be produced from the 1st generation of the year that sees the area between rounds..., then well, we will start these restrictions without one of the commitments that had been solemnly adopted, which is to say: "We will keep wagons bus-VAO to enter and exit Barcelona, right? That was up to you. Listen, not one, huh? Always sorry, like T-Mobility. Now they announce them to us by 2022: "Works must be done... Miri, in the United States, counselor, the priority carts for public transport are enabled without great works, eh? With cameras and signaling. So, man, some more proactive actions on the part of your government we'd expect. I expect some of your answers. And then there's some other question that I have left, I'll put it to the second part of this question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.171.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, the word has the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.172.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, deputy... Mr Terrades: decision, all. The Government of the Generality has all the decision, the will to face this global challenge that is the climate emergency. Now, it will coincide with me that we have conditioned resources, conditioned economic resources – and now I will mention it – and we also have some of our conditioned instruments. Among other things, the Law of Climate Change, which the People's Party brought to the Constitutional Court, that the PSOE had undertaken to withdraw this appeal and did not withdraw it, and we have a feeling that conditions it. Very partially, okay, but his party had undertaken to withdraw the appeal and did not do so. So, when you ask, listen, decide and ability... well, listen, sometimes we go with a hand connected to the scale. Because, I insist – and I will now refer to it, or in the second intervention – resources are conditioned, and some instruments are also conditioned. But I agree with you: we don't make this a matter of political confrontation, because it doesn't deserve it. I don't deserve society, I don't deserve our children, I don't deserve our daughters, who ask us one time and another respect the future that they can, therefore, take into account the arrival that we leave them. I, the truth, when you renounce the Parliament of Catalonia for not being able to arrive at a statement around last week's demonstrations or concentrations, I feel relatively questioned; relatively, eh? Why, anyway, this is the work of Parliament and the elected deputies, isn't it? As a government, we did, so, at the time, declare the climate emergency. We've approved a package of urgent measures to deal with the climate emergency, and we've also made a statement, like the government, in fact, to position us and understand the motivators of the past diverging protest, not the previous one, huh? And, therefore, as in the government, we did the work. You claim that Parliament goes further and does not just make a statement, but that it also delves into this matter. Home, I've proposed. The Government of the Generality, in the declaration of climate emergency, proposed that this Parliament celebrate an extraordinary plethora to talk about climate emergency, that we dedicate one day of the sessions of this Parliament to talk about this fundamental issue – an extraordinary plethora. And I think, if I'm not wrong – now I don't want to be wrong, huh? – that in the motions for a resolution of the general policy debate we reiterated this, that there is a plenary to be able to discuss these issues. I insist that it forms part of the corpus of the Climate Emergencies Declaration made by the Government, one of the world's first governments to declare the Climate Emergencies. And now we'll explain, too, how we conduct this statement. We thought it was very opportune to move forward and be among the first to declare the climate emergency. Some of us were entitled to..., "Listen, what you're doing is a rhetorical statement. Well, it was important to make this statement, and then bring it up to concrete actions, which we'll also be referring to now. You're talking about a very interesting concept, I admit it, and I'm sure I'll take it out on myself, if I may, right? That's indifference versus denial. Very interesting, huh? Actually, we don't have to waste any more time denying it, because it's a supine scientific evidence and so overwhelming that, listen to me, who wants to stay in denialism, so, what's left of it, huh? , say Aznar or say Trump. Listen, I'm staying. We will refer to science and the method, and what we need to age for is because there are institutional conditions, obviously, but obviously also because there is a sharing of this need at the economic and social levels. Everyone needs to be involved in the fight against climate change, in this fight against climate emergence. We've got to get through, I'd say, huh? , from the appeal– « The Government, what do you do something– to involvement, eh? If we just stay..., yes, by a lot of protesting that there is, the only one the protestant does is that, ask the government, so, badly; there must be involvement. And that's what we're responsible for, too, huh? As the government, we have a responsibility to include and to involve. But we need to move from this inquiry to everyone's involvement. I admit that the PSOE government has made gestures respecting this issue – I admit it, eh? – contrary to what the People's Party Government did. You've done the Ministry for the Ecological Transition; so... it's an interesting concept, huh? Some other time, we've been talking about it. It's a concept that comes from an advanced conception of what climate is – it goes from the world of French administration. Or the Ministry of Development, what ends up, then, poses, say, as one of the references of immediate and future action the urban agenda, eh? For example. The urban agenda is one of the sustainable development goals that they have to do with climate change. So, that's what I admit. But we have to move from intentions to concretes, here, again; from music, which may sound more or less well, to concretes. Because, beyond the creation of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition or the naming of the urban agenda as a whole, there must be economic resources, and economic resources – alert – territorialities, which was when it explained to them that we sometimes go with a hand connected to the scale. Because there are resources available to the Spanish State that should be able to territorialize. And I asked the Minister for Ecological Transition to do that. I said to him: "Listen, when the government of the state returns to the sub-carbons..., they do the favor of calculating what they correspond to Catalonia and what we should be able to do in order not to do anything, no, climate policies. And that's if it's denied – it's denied. O... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I also asked him to withdraw his appeal to the Constitutional Court, as they had promised politically. And they didn't, did they? And now we have a feeling, I repeat it, that conditions us; relatively, but conditions us. So, it's not going, say, to put all our dues to us, when we see that to the other band – in this case, to the State Administration – so there are things that could be done to precisely promote our performance. You're asking us to make a graveyard. In fact, I don't know if it's an oral question or an inquiry that we've already made in the previous ple or the previous ple, huh? And, effectively, in this we are, we are organizing the summit. Just here, there are local administrations that have decided to make all the pre-emptive meetings to finish making the declaration of urgency. And we, as the government, wanted to do it backwards: we wanted to, first, position ourselves – we think it was very important –, declaration of immediate climate emergency – I insist, one of the world's first governments to do it –, and then, more than ever, to work interdepartmentally, to make a package of urgent climate emergency measures, which have already passed through the government, also to make a whole set of sectoral meetings with the private enterprise, with the local world, with associations. All meetings, which some already have dates, including, and end, after all this partial work, with a summit, which, incorporating everything that has been debated in these sectoral meetings, can deepen in this will, eh? , in this decision of Catalonia – not so much of the Government of the Generality, but of Catalonia – to participate in this global struggle against climate emergency. This morning I said that as an answer to my colleague Elsa Artadi, who said..., she asked me, she asked me an oral question about our presence at the climate summit in New York, and said to her: « Listen, we, therefore, have to manage this raccoon of the world that is called Catalonia. Because if we manage well this raccoon of the world that is said to be Catalonia, also in the climate aspect, we will help this global challenge, so we can face it with guarantees of success. I insist: decision-making, compromises and instruments; instruments to be refined at the level of government action, and, above all – I repeat – at the level of economics too, developing our own legislation... For example, the Climate Change Law, therefore, talks about the CO2 tax on vehicles, which can activate from the '1 of generation of 2020. This will bring us a series of resources, but ask, Mr Terrades, to you, as a representative of the PSC, and therefore, as a representative of the PSOE, which, in short, the Government of the State helps us – to help us –: it would help us very much to territorialize the funds that I obtained from the sub-carbon, because it is a lot of annual money. There are hundreds and millions of euros that would help us to make good climate policies. If we continue to speak now, in the second part of the inquiry, but let's say that the decree you ask us to repeal is not 149, it is 147, 147/2009. Home, here, the speaker is not suspected of having done it: 147/2009..., 2009 means the tripartite. He made you, this decree. He did it to you, and now we're asking for a waiver. That decree had a series of interesting concepts – urbanistic, environmental – and we have already seen that this does not work, that we need to encourage the installation of wind and photovoltaics. And here we are. We are final, together with the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, not a strict derogation, but a new law – in short, it is what you asked me – to be able, therefore, to encourage, that the energy transition...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.173.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.174.0	...is largely based on this facilitating the implantation of photovoltaic and wind plants. Let's keep talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.175.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it is the return, again, of the deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.176.0	Yeah. I've finished the first round talking about the restriction of cars and emission download areas; I'll pick up the wire over here. Beyond the low-emission zones between rounds, five media... and what do you plan to do with your department? Because at least seven more metropolitan municipalities have already asked to establish, from the year you see, low-emission zones. And more or less a similar cipher – according to my news, and having spoken to the mayors – of what is the metropolity arch, the second metropolitan crown, they are also interested and have also begun to demand this theme. We'll have a problem here, huh? , which are the interurban lives connecting these cities or agglomerations of more than fifty thousand inhabitants. The question is very clear, counselor; I know it's not their department, huh? But the question is very clear: how do we get the deal, the transfer of skills with the General Directorate of Transit, huh? It is clear to me that the other contracting party, eh? – if I may say so – it is available. How do you like it? With the CO2 tax you will collect, do you plan to open a subsidy path to help renew the distribution fleet? It's old-fashioned, there's a lot of vehicles that are polluting and the consumption patterns have changed – we have the problem of the last mile. Think of opening up, with what they recapped, grant lives to renew these fleets? Returning to the energy transition, yes, it is true, the progressive government of the left, or tripartite, made a decree, on 147/2009, eh? There was a feeling that the environmental assessment fell. We've been seven years without a legal instrument. Look how easy it is, huh? They make a decree of the law, they don't make a decree, they'll bring us back... they make a decree of the law; we'll vote for it. And I was also asking him how they intend to make the energy transition, right? Because at this point in Spain there are 15,400 megawatts of our wind farms in development. Of these fifteen thousand and five thousand, only 273 are in Catalonia, a 1.80_per_cent. That's the chart I'll leave after, huh? It's clearly seen. Power generation capacity with renewable energies in Catalonia in 2012, 3,969 megawatts; year 2018, 4,022 megawatts– only 1.4_per_cent more, fifty-five megawatts of difference. I don't want to be qualified, I don't want to be reneged on, I mean they're not doing well. He told us about the climate emergency statement. All right. Five months have passed – five months – since they announced the declaration of climate emergency, but... no calendars or assumptions. And, speaking of assumptions, counselor, making a generous aggregation of what you target for climate policies, only up to a 1.60_per_cent of the assumptions. And here I add the investments of Ferrocarrils of the Government of Catalonia, the share of public transport..., why, if only we talked about the concrete parties that talk about climate change, we would be talking about 0.02. That's why I told him we'd have to go through... And I offer it to you, I repeat it again, huh? And we'll have a few differences, some differences, but we think it's worth it and that this is a country project, but we have to get past this state of indifference – that it's not my definition, huh? I remind you that it's from this journalist, climate author David Wallace – we have to move from the phase of indifference... And this is going from less speeches to more commitments, and I'm sure we'll find ourselves in this sense. And the Law of Climate Change – which I believe both the Government of the Generality and the Government of Spain have lost by the middle of the road, because there was..., now I will not reproduce, that I remain twenty-three seconds, their conversations with Minister Ribera, because some information in my mind... – allows, despite the feeling of the Constitutional, a wide way to work. Mr Miri, the Socialist Government, which I hope will be revalidated on 10 November, has continued to bring Brussels a new climate and energy plan with concrete commitments and budgetary resources.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.177.0	Thank you, Congressman. For the answer, it's the counselor's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.178.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... Mr Terrades, to continue with what we have already discussed in the first part of the inquiry and to delve into some of the issues that have added me to this second part... The low-emission zone. I don't want to stop talking to him, huh? Because, actually, it's a tape we think is important to everything that this is fighting the climate change. In short, the low-emission zone means decarbonising mobility, meaning that there is less private transport that contaminates, and more, surely, public transport. And this, of course, improves the quality of the air, the salvation of people... They're still, say, positive vectors, in the low-emission zone, or at least that's what we see from the government. And, therefore, it forms an intrinsic part of the agreements of the Air Quality Table, and we have been working on rapeseed rape with the directly involved joints, not only those of region 40, zone 40, but also with the municipalities of the intra-round area – with the five municipalities – and with the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona. We've got a point. Now it takes the area to set up its register so that it can control everything that refers to access and sanctions over the emission download area and that the joints do not approve the orders, huh? , not only that of Barcelona, but also those of the Hospitallet, Cornellà, Sant Just and Sant Adrià, all have to do it. And from all that, it has to come out that, effectively, this is increasing to 1 in the generation of 2020, but we believe it and we defend it. And so much so that we actually want to take it to other large municipalities in Catalonia – obviously this cannot be done at all – and make it easier for them to implement it – in fact, all regulation, so that we can implement these low-emission zones. The same way that Barcelona's Metropolitan Area is covering the area's joints – the thirty-sixes of the area – that want to implement the low-emission zone – covering them from the technical and legal point of view, huh? – therefore, the Government of the Generalitat will do so with the rest of the country, as it cannot otherwise be. And you ask: "What else are you going to do, on the sidelines of the low-emission zone? Home, when we talk about decarbonising mobility we mean, effectively, limiting, which is what we are doing, but also encouraging: more public transport. And more public transport means no more than offering the current infrastructure, but creating more infrastructure. And, therefore, we, as the government, are absolutely intoxicated in being able to carry out at least three important public transport infrastructure works to the metropolitan area, of those of generation of more mass, of more structure. One is the completion of line 9. You know, I haven't spoken on many occasions, that with the assumptions there is the whole plan of disposition and return from the EIB loan that will allow us to finish line 9. It's important. Line 8, which know that Ferrocarrils is already working on the concrete project to interconnect the metro of the Vallès with the Carrilet, which is the metro of the Baix Llobregat – plaça d'Espanya, Martorell, Manresa and Equalada, line 8. We believe that this is a work that gives a lot of socio-economic feedback; this is what the Director of Infrastructures of the ATM points out. And he connected her to the tram systems. It's clear, we need to connect the Besòs tram system to the Llobregat system. Therefore, there are three phonative works that must be able to be pulled forward immediately – immediately – without any solution of continuity. Presumed, and pull forward projects and works. You're asking me about the busos-VAO. In short, absolutely agree, we have to do them. There's no one who's just not painting a rat, is there? There's no one worth doing, is there? The one at C-31, for example, deserves some work. And you claim me the Diagonal, the B-23. Home, I'd like that. You say: "The other side of the table are on point. No, no, they're working, if I may, huh? Since the 28th of April that the Government of the State is in operation, and for many talks that I have with one or other secretary of state or minister, to the other gang of the table... The truth is that it costs, Mr. Congressman; it costs that there is someone who, to the other gang of the table, that they are in operation, that they do not govern, eh? ... He blames us who do not rule. We're ruling every day, and the other band are working, until the point they've had to call elections on November 10. And it costs you to make decisions. It would only be lacking: absolute willingness to sign this agreement and to be able to fill this bus-VAO of the B-23. On the issue of interurbans, it is necessary for the General Directorate of Transit – again, the State – not only to facilitate, but to modify the rules of the Transit Law. They're wearing mesos asking for it. It's not the Català Transit Server, it's the general address. It is the State Transit Law, which needs to be modified in order to allow it. And, finally, the summit that you claimed: the summit we have programmed for Sant Antoni, 17 of gener. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.179.0	Thank you. [[Asking the Government about plastic waste]] [[300-00175/12]] The next question to the Government is about the plastic residues, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia in Comú Puem. The formula is Mr Lucas Ferro. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.180.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, councillors... Going over a little bit of the hemerotheque, three years ago practically the government committed to approve this 2019 a new law of residue in Catalonia, and we are on the verge of October and it seems that this 2019 will no longer go. And it seems to me twice as difficult: for a band, because of this inability of the Government to fulfil the commitments that are marked at the beginning of each legislature, and I no longer say what was marked in previous legislatures – that we are not surprised that this law has not been approved, taking into account that only one law has been approved throughout the legislature – but it seems to me twice as worrying that we are late not only for their commitments, but also for the challenges that we have in terms of sustainable management of resources, which are not given any type of response. And we are ahead – and we say so very often, but in this aspect too – of a lost decade. Today Catalonia practically recycles the same, if not include a little less in some products, which it has been years. And we have a policy of own-residues of a model of society unconcerned about its environment. And, if I may, more than a recycling policy or a resource recovery policy, we have a scathing management policy. And seeing the society where we live and seeing the last mobilizations, it seems that the problem is not that society is overly unconcerned about the sustainable use of resources, but that we certainly have a government unable to lead – in this aspect, too – an answer to the height of its own country. I believe that there are many examples that set this gap between the policies that the government is pursuing and the inertia of the past that is pouring in and what society is asking for today. We can see this in the extension to the C-32, in the Barcelona World, where waste incinerators are being planted or in which cements creminate waste from the country, etc., which show, let us say, that we have arrived here because of the inertia of an absolutely failed energy transition policy and a policy of waste that does not give more than itself. And it's no longer just a matter of opposing every project that pops up on the table and that doesn't respond to the reptes of today's Catalonia, but we believe, above all, that it's time for you to put an agenda on the table to lead the reptes that this country has. European regulations on waste and policies transposed into both the Spanish State and the Generality mark a hierarchy in the management of waste that is very clear and that I would like to make a little rest. The first challenge is always to reduce, and to reduce is surely the key back from the situation in the waste use in Catalonia. And I say this above all because the majority of residue management policies, but also other environmental policies, continue to place on the citizenry the burden of responsibility, and, somehow, they are unable to clean up the burden of those who produce residues and produce contamination in this country. And it's good that consumers and citizens are looking for formulas to generate less residue and to contaminate less, but many times this is insufficient, when it's not directly trying to snort against the wind. And, therefore, there is a law of residues that marks this hierarchy, and that marks as the first objective the reduction in the production of residues. And this means very concrete things: that it deploys legislatively the expanded responsibility of producers, which is nothing more than telling companies today that they produce residues that are responsible for the management of residues throughout their life cycle. It means developing an ambitious green tax policy that effectively converts the principle of 'polluter pays' and 'integrates the costs of the pollution they generate into market prices'. And I mean also, in the matter of this new law of residue, dare to make bold decisions in the matter of waste production. It is possible to prohibit the use of a_sol. It can't be that we have a market flooded with plastic from a used sun and that it's citizenry, that many times it doesn't have viable alternatives of consumption, that it has to look for life to recycle them or to try to reduce its consumption. It's good that you do, but it's impossible for me to have a positive effect on resource management if we don't identify the problem. And, therefore, focus on the practical elements of a used_sol and the substitution of products of a used_sol not only for biodegradable products of a used_sol, but for reusable products over time. It also prohibits the sale of products containing microplastics and nanoplastics for their effects on public health. The second guiding principle of resource policies is to reuse, and we believe that Catalonia has a difficult problem with the reuse of products. Not long ago, 2010, one of every three packages was reusable; today it's less than half, it's one of every. And this drastic decrease of what is the second basic pillar of recycling and product reuse policies has to do with the exponential increase in products and packaging of a used_sol. I need to approach this. And I need to address it not only by regulating the production of packaging of a used_sol and by prohibiting the production of packaging of a used_sol, but by recovering systems that have traditionally been functional for the waste management policy, such as deposit, return and return systems. Without a system of deposit, return and return, we will hardly complete European objectives in the matter of packaging recycling. And we believe, moreover, that it is a system that perfectly combines the responsibility of packaging producers in this country, through the expanded responsibility in production, with the necessary task of citizens, which is rewarded for using re-use channels. And, therefore, the first challenge we consider to have to have the new law of recycling and waste in Catalonia is to put reduction and reuse as fundamental pillars of waste policy in that country. And, therefore, all the formulas that continue to emerge in the territory and that have to do with the incineration and the taking of residues must be absolutely political subsidising the two guiding principles of the policy of residues. And we think the picture today is, honestly, desolating and worrying. Before in ugly mention the socialist company: we will not complete the objectives in matter of energy transition of 2020 marked for the European Union. Nor shall we complete the recycling objectives of the European Union. And this marks a fundamental challenge that should be a challenge of this legislature, and, of course, of its department: such a law of courageous residue, fixed objectives, fixed timetables, and, above all, fixed ambitious measures to achieve the objectives in the field of recycling. This government, as I said before, has only approved a law in one year, and I think it should be able to activate and not let this legislature fall to death. And, in the field of plastics, I'd like to make one last point, because this week they've also heard from some media outlets. We all know the effects that plastic has on management and abuse and the unsustainable use of resources; we also know the effects that plastic has on March and the oceans and what causes species, marine ecosystems, but it would also be useful to make an impact on the effects it has on public health. I'll read this week's news that came out in various communication media: "The urine counts plastic. One study found twenty substances present in food packaging. Several studies show that the components of plastic packaging migrate to food and can cause alterations in endocrine and immunological systems and, above all, encourage some types of cancer. I believe that, for public salvation, and also for the necessary setbacks in the ecological transition that we have on the table, a law of courageous and ambitious waste management would be hot. And let's hope you can compromise today to get it out of the way as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.181.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer the question, the words of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Damià Calvet. The Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability Thank you very much, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... Mr. Ferro, well, many thanks for the inquiry around, in principle, the residue and the plastics. You've focused a lot on the practices and, obviously, I'll answer it; but you also at some point – and allow me to say it with all cordiality, huh? – He has introduced some other issues that are neither waste management nor plastic management, has he not? Clearly, you have spoken, for example, of the C-32 or Barcelona World – and this Barcelona World has been going through history for many years – or you have also said, quite frankly, that the government is promoting incinerators from the territory. But where did you get that from? That's what you said. But where did you get this from, that the government is promoting land-based incinerators? Where'd you get that? Or so, if you read news to the Region7 that says there's a promoter who wants to run a project into the old Central Circle, so... so that's news that you read in the paper. This morning I answered an oral question from the CUP, which asked me specifically about this subject, and I said: « Of project, re– of project, re, no re re. The only thing we have is an extinction of the activity's environmental demand, which ended in 2007, if I don't recall correctly, of energy production. We are not, as you have said, promoting waste incinerators in the country. Home, we're still serious and we're still strict, why else do we ask them what they're in? I mean, I'm willing to talk to you about the Law of Residue and Plastic Management, but things that aren't or pretend to be headlines that aren't... so I can't let it go, if I may. You're talking about, in the second sense, that we're late with the Law of Residues, because we said 2019... Home, however, there's been a lot going on in this country, ever since it's been said so far. You obviously that October 2017 was applied a 155 that lasted until June 2018 – finals of May, June. Home, I didn't hear this part. You didn't, you didn't hear me, please, because, man, it cost a little bit, all folded up, huh? And here we are – and here we are. And the government approved a lot of it... a lot of it, we could have done maybe September or October of last year or March of this year, but a lot of it actually approved the preliminary process of drafting the new law of residue. It's approved, I mean, we accounted for it on the press wheel after the government. And this 15th of October begins the territorial debate of this new law of residue, which will be a modern law, which will be a law... we already have, of law of residue, eh? But, obviously, it must be adapted to new European regulations, and there must be a great deal of talk about them. And this process of territorial debate that we have initiated, which starts formally on October 15th, we want it to culminate in that we can bring the law to Parliament, because the laws approve them the Parliament, not the Government – the laws approve them the Parliament, not the Government, eh? – the first half of 2020. So, man... Okay, not 2019, but we'll bring her to Parliament in the first half of 2020. And by the way, it seems to me that a lot of things have happened. I didn't hear that, please, because, in fact, he's conditioned us, huh? , the action of government, has conditioned us very much the action of government. In fact, who had promised that we would bring a law of residue 2019 is in prison, which is the legitimate counselor of Territory and Sustainability. So, I didn't get it, because it touches me a lot, say, fiber, that theme, huh? If I may. You talk... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Neither ooh nor ah; it touches the fiber, eh? [[Pause.]] You're talking about making a brave law. We'll do it, huh? I insist, we'll do it. And we will be very pleased to discuss with you and your group the content of this law of residue, which, if doubtless, will take into account – and you explain it in a very pedagogical way, but that, if I may, we already know – what is called the European hierarchy of waste management. We know it, we know it perfectly well, the European hierarchy of waste management: prevention, preparation for reuse, recycling, others... – it's that it's in English, here –, recovery would be..., energy appreciation and, finally, mouthpiece. We're very clear about it. And then I'll give you some other figures, based on the legislation that we have, the current legislation, about how we are managing, based on this European hierarchy of waste in Catalonia. But, obviously, our law of residue will bring it, if the territorial debate process and everything is well, obviously, and we have a text, so, only, in the first half of 2020. It's a little later, but, I insist, a lot has happened on the way. You're talking about doing a brave fiscal policy. Home, I think it's been many years since the government of the Generalitat has launched a brave environmental taxation policy. What, if not, is the water canon, which has allowed us to throw into a very and very complete sanitation network? That it lacks a little, okay, but it's very, very complete, envies the model of many regions of Europe. What, if not, is the residue canon? I've talked about the water canon, but the residue canon... The residue canon was, at the time, an innovative tool, but it's final environmental tax policy. And we made her serve, and we made her serve with strength. It's this government, the one that's passed the power to give to seventy euros the tone, that's the one that's mobilized the gatherings and that's brought us to the recovery percentages that we currently have. He's been a great tool in the service of the joints. We were at 34_per_cent, when we were in low chambers; now we are at 70_per_cent. It's not bad. Do we still have to go there? Effectively. But this same channel has allowed us, for example, to have 18_million euros in prevention and recycling policies for urban waste. It's not bad. So, man, it's not like we're in a cosmic void around residue management. We are on a level that needs to be improved, logically – logically – because it is one of the great challenges we have as a society, but the Agency of Residues and its mechanisms – first, legislation, the law of current residue –, agency as an instrument and final environmental taxation – this canon – have allowed us to do things. Things from which, I hear, I think it's worth it that we're still aware of; not that we minimize or deny them, that it doesn't carry anything, it seems to me, huh? – no porta enloc. I'll let him know that... he's talked about not completing the second five goals. The goals of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 will complement them; we will complement them, huh? He also said we wouldn't complicate them, and we're sure we would. And also, to close a little bit of this more generic subject, which I suppose we will then go into concrete subject matter, respects the subject of the practicals – this morning I also said, in the answer to the oral question made to me by the Member of the House of Commons, Natalia Sánchez, right? If I may, I must advise, therefore, that I am not a party, and therefore I must rely on legislation and government action, but in any case, I can also tend, can I not? And I share them with my team, with the department's team, and we direct everything we have to do in the medium and long term in this way, don't we? And I said..., it may have gone unnoticed, but I said that in the country's modernizing agenda and, concretely, in the modernizing agenda that refers to waste management as a fundamental part of environmental policies, incineration is not the issue. That's very easy to say – I just, I already said it, huh? – but it is more difficult to apply, among other things because the European hierarchy contemplates it – the European hierarchy contemplates it. It seems that if there is an incinerator, it is illegal; no, no, if there is an incinerator, first, it is in the European hierarchy, and second, in this country it complements urban and environmental regulations in rajatabla – in rajatabla. And we're not promoting anything, are we? But, in any case, as it exists, but at the same time we are debating what this modernizing agenda is all about, constantly – constantly – the country needs, so I say it from the start: the intuition of this advisor that he is talking to them and his team is that incineration is not part of this modernizing agenda. And we're going to have to work very hard to correct this situation, because the percentages that we have today in the day of gathering, of which we carry to energetic value as apart, I insist, from the hierarchy, and the one that ultimately goes to the mouth are the ones that are, and they are some percentages that we have to work very hard to be able to take them to where we are close to the country. But I believe that with the new law of residues that we will bring here to Parliament in the first half of 2020 and with this final environmental tax, with this well-managed waste chain for our great instrument, a state structure, which serves us to properly manage the residues, which is the Agency of Residues of Catalonia, I am sure we will be able to move forward. And, if I may, already in the second intervention, because now I would be very modest, I will talk to him about what he pointed out in the last instance, which is the compliment of the European directive on the elimination of the plastics of a sun used – as we will – framed in a strategy of the plastic. We do not just want to be in the compliment of the European directive on the elimination of the plastics of a used one, but we also want to think of a strategy of the plastic – of what we consume, of how we produce, of how we matter, of how we manage, of how we trace – that we allow ourselves to deal with this social problem, of very high social and media perception, that is the management of the plastics, this important part of the residues that we generate in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.182.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the answer, it's the congressman's turn again. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.183.0	Counselor, believe that we are aware that there was a 155 in this country, but we are aware that you are counsel from a year and a half ago. And I'm sorry if we ask him what the result of his legislative work is; I think one year and a half is enough margin – it's enough margin – because we do it, and I think it's not a waste to apologize for the way he does it. And it is not a waste either that it is given to the pit with fiscal figures that we already have on the table and with the Agency of Residues of Catalonia, that I do not know if it is a structure of state, but I think it is an important structure in this country, when the results of the recycling policy in this country leave much to be desired. I'd give me a few shots to the pit and take on more of the future. And I'm sorry if I bring him to the C-32 or Barcelona World expansion theme or the incinerators in this country, but you're a territorial and sustainability advisor and I think there's some responsibility to take over, too. In short, I believe that you have made an intervention where you have basically explained to us all the less who are your priorities as a territorial and sustainability adviser in the new law of Catalonia. And I would like to ask them very concrete questions: in this new law of residue, which we share that it is necessary and that we hope to be able to work together, do you contemplate or believe that we should contemplate the prohibition of plastics of a used sun? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? Who? With what time and with what calendar? If you are of the opinion or think that a system of deposit should be contemplated, return and return to the packaging in this country, what green taxation does it envisage that you should accompany these measures? Not so much to encourage, let's say, or to finance the selective collection system, but to discourage the production of packaging in this country; which legislative measures do you think you should accompany to do so, that is, possible? In short, what are the main tasks you believe – which I can't let go of, because it's clear, bearing in mind that the law is being prepared – what are the main tasks you think you need to have the new law of residues in order not to fail the European objectives in terms of residues or those of this year 2020, which we are failing, or those of the future, which we hope will help us not to fail. All right, all right, I think I left it in the bag. Before Counselor Terrades... [[Rialles.]] Ai, the councillor, the deputy, the deputy. Well... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Leave it as « government delegate. [[Rialles.]] He talked about the difference between indifference and denialism, as many, let's say, have taken this step from denialism to indifference. I hope that you will take a more important step, which is that of indifference to action and to the courageous legislative proposal. Anyway, I hope you'll explain it to us here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.184.0	To make the counter-replication, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.185.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies. Mr. Ferro, we managed it from residue basem in the concept of circular economy. That's why I dared say before our intuition is that incineration is not part of the modernizing agenda. All this, I insist, is easy to say, harder to apply, but we are not sure, too, that, with this law that you claim that you can explain and that we can bring as soon as possible, I am sure we will delve into all these concepts. But I let him give you some data that's not so much a hit to the pit but a statistic. We, in seven years, have passed from 1,6_million_tons of residuals to 1,3 porters. There's been a reduction, so that's good management. We have quotas of selective collection – they are the last data, of 2018 – of a 42_per_cent, 40_per_cent avocador, 18_per_cent to energy valorization. They're standard data, so they're on the right line. We're not at all at once, we could go further, but obviously they're in the right line and now we'll go deeper into this whole management through, I insist, this law of residue and through the same management as the Agency of Residus. And we're specifically talking about plastic. You talk – I have pointed out – about the SDDR issue. 2017 we've already done, like the government and through the agency of Residus, the study of what SDDR application means – we've already done it, huh? What's going on is that it's been left hanging, and it's still hanging, that you're creating a specific committee, from Parliament, that this should depend on the Medi Ambient Commission, to precisely debate whether this is the proper system for handling packaging. Why did he debate it, huh? On this topic, it is not closed: SDDR is a system, but there are others. And, therefore, we have complained – and I have done so publicly on some occasion – that Parliament believed this commission and we can talk. I have said this publicly, it seems to me that I have said it here in Parliament, and I have also said it to the Board of Directors of the Agency of Residus, in the same way that we have created, for example, through the Commission of Territories, the Commission of the Vineyard. It would be the same system: that the parliamentary committee, in this case the Environment committee, created the specific committee, then we would already convene it from the same Parliament, with a dynamic of well-active work, to arrive at some kind of conclusion that I can then expose here in the plenary of Parliament, much in parallel to what we have done, the re-legislative legislature, but now we are no longer going there, with the winery: creating the committee, debate, some months debating, intensively, so that later this council can give consideration to this plenary. We, the Law of Residues, on the sidelines of updating it with all the new directives that have been issued since it was approved until now, must modernise all the concepts, we say, of management in order to have the best system of waste management that we can in our country. And obviously we include, as it can't be otherwise, everything that refers to the plastic of a single use. Europe on this subject has marked us on the path, it has marked us absolutely on the path we will not escape: Directive 2019/904 of the European Parliament, and after another one of the Council, of June 5, 2019, which is a directive on the reduction of the impact of certain products of plastic to the environment that establishes the products that will disappear by 2021 – disappear as now covered by plastic of a used – spoons, forks, gavages, shields –, plates of plastic of a used_sol, pallets, stickers side by side for the orchestras manufactured with plastic, agitators of drunks like the coffee, those palas that are included in tabs of use, the supporters of gloss, of spreads. Member States should selectively collect 77_percent of plastic blisters by 2025 and 90_percent of plastic blisters by 2029; 2025, 25_percent of plastic blisters must be recycled, and 2030, 30_per_cent. We therefore reinforce the principle, also, of 'polluter pays in introducing increased responsibility for producers. We'll pick this up, too. And it is necessary, it is necessary to believe this commission of work in order to be able to deepen in which are specifically the systems of management of the packagings. I also appeal to Parliament that we can, therefore, create this commission, to deepen what you ask for, that it is an object of concern and occupation of the Government, that it is the reduction of the plastics of a used_sol. Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.186.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on security policies]] [[300-00173/12]] Move on. The next question is about security policies. Presented for the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia, the inquiry was made by MP Esperanza García. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.187.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Good afternoon, Counselor. Look, before I start the interpellation, I'm going to be allowed a few seconds. From here I would like to give our full support to journalists who suffer harassment, harassment, insults and aggression in Catalonia simply by exercising their profession. This very morning, in these corridors, there has been a unanimous protest by all the professionals in the sector precisely to denounce an anti-democratic and totalitarian spiral they suffer, and it is that in the exercise of their profession they suffer all these insults, harassment and harassment. And I didn't want that to remain simply, even if I'm not a journalist, in the halls of Parliament, and I wanted it to be recorded in this Chamber that in the end, if..., they say that the human being is less so if he doesn't have free philosophy, but it's true that advanced democracies, if they don't have free and independent journalism, are less democratic. Therefore, thank you and, from here, we will do everything possible to ensure that an essential element in democracy and freedom, which is free and independent journalism, remains protected and does not suffer what is suffering today in Catalonia. Having said that, Mr. Buch, good afternoon. It's the second question I've been asking you; practically... since I rejoined as a Member of Parliament in February, it's the second. And I remember that the first time I spoke to you – it is not that I say it with a certain melancholy – it is true that I said to you: "Look, we are going to govern ourselves by three very basic criteria with regard to what we understand to be the matter and how the security matter should be treated and, therefore, what are the axes in the exercise of our opposition and control to the Government and the advice you direct. And I said to him: "Prudence, stability and responsibility. And you know what? That we believe he has missed virtually all of them: prudence, stability and responsibility. And that is why a second question is presented today, because we believe that there are sufficient grounds for leftovers and alarms to question you. Do you believe that your management in front of, at the head of this council has followed any of these premises? Because we don't think so. I've already told you that we consider you to have failed. And today you have the golden opportunity to bring the situation back. Why should I tell him? Because we're practically on the equator of the legislature. I mean, I don't want to put myself on hypothetical scenarios of possible advance elections. Half of the legislature, possibility of rescheduling. And I am going to make a number of corrections that we consider necessary, but also a number of questions that we believe should be answered. First. Crime is not a perception; it is not a perception; it is a reality. It is an uncomfortable reality, a reality that you have to manage, which requires the assumption of responsibilities, of human means and of will to resolve, which sometimes, often, fills the lack of human means. There were 236,771 criminal offences in Catalonia in the first half of the year, of which almost one hundred and one thousand were committed in Barcelona; some fifty thousand were committed in the first quarter. Not only has this crime rate increased, but in the case – there is much talk about Barcelona – of Lleida, a 49.5_per_cent of the abductions are violently, a 41_per_cent in Sant Adrià, almost 30 in Barcelona. The quarter of terror, which was the first, continued almost until the summer, and we continue in that situation, because we have very recent images of Canovellas from just a few days ago. So much so that even citizen patrols are created to combat that insecurity. Therefore, the solution is not to say to the citizens, Mr Buch, that this is a simple perception, because it is true that the « top blanket generates a certain sense of insecurity. Do you not repent of those words? We have known that a sort of security shock plan has been created in Barcelona called "Barcelona", a safe city. When are you going to introduce him to us? That is the first axis that we believe should be carried forward. The second is that the Mossos need..., it is a security corps, it needs stability, it needs a certain agenda and it also needs independence from party interference. I tell you one thing: it's not a receipt for you to cancel coordination meetings between police forces, even if you did one yesterday; you usually cancel them. Nor does it seem reasonable that on alert 4_about_5 terrorist you do not convene the Security Board. You are, moreover, in the matter of the instability of the body, a moremarquist, in the cessation: in just two years we have had three directors of the Mossos, and you ceased your communication manager nothing ago. Names happen and increase insecurity, uneasiness and tension within the body. The Internal Affairs Division seems to act partisanly when that should not be the case. A specific police force is created, which is a guard... well, it has been called journalistically by the « Pretorian Guard of Torra, has it not? , finally, the ASI : you create a special protection body for Mr. Torra, which also represents a contempt for the Escort Area. Question: Have you made any kind of verification of the actions that have been followed in the IAD in respect of agents dispatched? Have you checked the irregularities involved, for example, in the case of Mossos per la Independência, using the Blanes police station as the headquarters, the registered office, of its activities? I'd like you to answer that. The third axis is – please, I ask you, on behalf of the citizenry –: take ownership of the success of police coordination. It is customary to find in you and in other members of your Government sectarian statements, biased towards other security forces, I speak of the National Police, I speak of the Civil Guard, specifically. Why do you refuse to make your own and even better coordinate all the operations that have worked between different police forces? Why such ideological sectarianism? Why don't you apply a little bit of political intelligence and promote a little bit more citizen security by accepting that in the end, when citizens see that there is a coordinated intervention in Cornellá between the National Police, the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Local Police in the case of thefts is a success? Why do you not encourage such coordination when in the case, for example, of La Mina, the citizens living there find that their streets are safer when there is such police coordination? Do you really believe that citizens when they are safer, when they feel more protected, care about the color or identifier of a police uniform? Do you believe that as an interior adviser it helps not only to systematically deny such coordination, but to vote against and in favour of the expulsion of the Civil Guard from Catalonia? Because I don't think so, and it can still be rectified. The fourth axis that we believe should be improved is that it is very good to protect freedom, but is mobility also freedom? Because we believe that yes, mobility is also freedom. This morning, you reported that there had been about thirty-two daily demonstrations, practically, since the beginning of the year and that almost all of them were, more or less, quiet, that public order was maintained and that they were without incidents. But I ask myself: "Does the role of the police and the police force mean only to guarantee property, only to guarantee public order, only to guarantee the right to demonstration, or should other things also be protected? Should freedom of ambulation be protected and guaranteed by police? Because we think so. And you have been a few days, following the possible publication of the judgment on the 1-O, stating that "don't worry, citizens, that we, from the Squad Corps, will ensure the right to demonstration and coexistence in the coming days. And I tell you this is very good, but what does it tell me to protect and ensure the freedom of all Catalans, including those who don't go to that demonstration, those who want, want and will go to their workplaces, those who want to get on a date with the doctor? What do you say? Because there are no more than five marches and demonstrations for three days called by the ANC, Ómnium and the CDR, and they intend, according to themselves already anticipate us, to block the roads. Are you going to allow Catalans, because they do not manifest themselves, to be hostages to those operations organized by the lords of the ANC, Omnium and the CoR, adding, moreover, the risk that seven of them are still in pre-trial detention for possession of explosives precursors? Do you believe that allowing the collapse and tolerating the risk – I insist: risk – of the CoR is part of the exercise responsible for your task as a counselor? Will you, please, leave the design of the operation in the hands of the Squad Mousse technicians or will you allow political interference?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.188.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the answer, it's the inside councilman's turn, now, Mr. Miquel Buch. When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.189.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Congresswoman, in the end, not to explain a lie many times is turned into truth, and this does not happen with a lie, but it happens with a general relationship, and today she said so because Ciutadan's companies do not want to distort relations or give false realities. I've been pointing out things that he's been doing. I'll start with the « harassment of journalists in Catalonia what did you mean, huh? I also condemn, I also condemn any type of settlement, any type, not only in Catalonia but also in the world, but I believe that you have taken away or wanted to profit unlawfully from the complaint and protest of the journalists, because the complaint and protest of the journalists did not go in the nature of whether they were independent or not independent, but could not do their job. And I think we have to respect them at the time of their work, and it's the same: take the flag that you have, someone who wants to attack a journalist, so we have to condemn him – take the flag that you have. Why? So why in this country we also have to guarantee freedom of press. You talked about prudence, responsibility, didn't you? But for example... he's been talking about data... given that I haven't guessed, since the first day I haven't guessed them, it's criminal data that we've had that they've had an increase. There's nothing they've increased, there's nothing they've lowered. For example, therefore, it did not refer to what is a fact that creates a lot of victimization, that creates a lot of feeling of insecurity, that are the robbers forcefully inside the home, in which the Squad's Mosso Cos, just a year ago and a little more, pulled forward a specific operating plan for the protection of habitats. Why? So why do we talk about dice when they come in and steal from your house, huh? And when they run the inside stuff of your pair, of your children, it generates a lot of insecurity and a lot of victimization. And here, the fruit of labor at the far end of the year, has dropped a 6_per_cent. Why? Because we have devoted many hours of work, patrolling and foreign hours to it. And in the case of arrests, in the past year they have increased a 12,48_per_cent, huh? Therefore, you know why, since the first day I explained it, the Squadron's Body has a couple of minor effects of what it should have, of which they were approved for a safety board, but, even if it is less, they do more work. And once more, I profit, as I have done many times in this chamber, as I have done many times in the committee and as I have done many times publicly..., I thank the work, because it is not the ones that should be, but every time they do more work. Therefore, it must also be appreciated the effort made by the group of public workers and public workers working at the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Detentions for crimes against persons have increased by 8.97; against public order, by 10.51; against public salvation, by 9.64; against road safety, by 6.15. All this is arrests that have increased, so here's a police job behind. If it's true that we've been increased in criminal data, we've been increased, it's also true that the work, the police are doing it to bring them down. I also have to say that we have a problem here, that sometimes they feel alone, because, so, unfortunately, the law does not accompany them. And it's the case of thefts, huh? , which is a fact in which, therefore, 2015 was thrown into front of a law..., well, it was modified the Criminal Code, it was done in the Congress of Deputies, that it is that there is competence, because somehow the recidivism, or, in the case of Barcelona, we have cases of multirecidivism, ended and, to hear us, four thefts could assume prison. As of 2017, a Supreme Court ruling, which says to the Congressional Members, "this change has done wrongly, this recidivism is due and, therefore, we have people who steal, to hear us, an act..., who recidivise with complete peace and sense of absolute permissiveness, and for so much that they do the work of the Mossos d'Esquadra, the local police, in Catalonia, obviously, if we can not bring these people out of the criminal circles we have in the streets, obviously they continue to delinquent. He spoke of independence and interference. You know, in the morning, I don't think there was, uh, in the House, or if there was supposed to be, huh? or, with a teacher who had me, who sometimes said to me: "Buch, present body, absent mind, no? So you should be like this, because I explicitly said that there was no type of interference, neither political nor partisan, from the President of the Generality, the Government of the Generality, the Councillor of the Interior in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. And not because you have the habit of doing it that the others do the same. We respect absolutely the police bodies and their hierarchy and their decisions, which are what we are..., we can obviously do politics, the Squad Coast is a police body and we are a political government, but we do not ingest nor in the operations, as he hinted at at the end of his speech or in other aspects that do not approach us. You said that we were more marquises, right? And I say yes, moremarkers. Do you know why? Because in seven months I have made two promotions of 750 moves each. Therefore, in seven months, I have made 1,500 moves; after seven years– seven years– without promotions, in seven months this Government has made 1,500 moves. Imagine us moremarkers: an unaudited fact in this country, for many years. So yes. Why? So because we knew that we had a problem, that there were no promotions, that we were missing moves and, in these seven months, we made 1,500 moves, that some start from the beginning of November at the institute and the others will be the promotion of the year you go. He talked about police coordination. Look, he probably won't see it from here, but he'll be able to identify it for the color. [[the counselor shows the chamber several fulls]] : all that is of taronja color are police coordination spaces with other things that have the Mosso d'Esquadra – all this taronja color. There's a lot of them, a lot of them. Why? Because as you see, and surely interpret, that the political reality, the criminal reality or the reality that follows is only based on what goes on in the street and on what if some are manifest or others are stopped manifesting, the police bodies obviously do much more work: they are criminal investigation, they are police saturation in the street, they are persecuting criminals, they are investigating, they are working with the courts... There is a great deal of work and, obviously, criminals, in a global world like we have now, they are not only in the city of Barcelona or they are not only in one of the 947 municipalities of Catalonia, but they are from Catalonia and, in the Spanish State, in Europe, we have criminals who have gone up and down and, therefore, the coordination and teamwork tool is indispensable. And if you've heard yesterday the parliament that I did at 384 squad moves – squad moves and moves – that they went to Barcelona, to the city of Barcelona, you've heard how I said that teamwork is recommenable in some camps, it's advisable in other camps, but in the police camp teamwork is indispensable and, therefore, coordination at the time of pursuing crime and ensuring the safety of everyone, in this case of Catalans, is objective that, regardless of the color of the uniform, you have to work. Freedom versus mobility. Miri, you're saying "constitutionalist party," huh? What do you say, you should look at Article 21 of the Spanish Constitution, which guarantees the right to demonstration and, if not, you can look at Law 9, of 1983, which also sets the rules of assembly and demonstration, and, therefore, it is a fundamental right, which a city can manifest, is a fundamental right that the police must protect, okay? I am convinced that, to you, the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, they like to have anesthetized societies, sleeping societies, societies in which you govern and people do what you want. I, look, I'm sorry for a society that's still awake, that's denied, that's a complaint, that I protest, because we do better work. Therefore, if we have twelve_ thousand events in Catalonia in 2018 is because Catalonia's society is rich, wants to discuss, wants to put problems on the table and wants to manifest. This is our country and this is what we respect. If you want a country where people aren't manifest, and you're quiet and you're home, you'll probably have to go somewhere else, but not Catalonia. And, fortunately, Catalonia's wealthy society makes it possible, when people want to protest, protest, and the Mosso d'Esquadra guarantee this fundamental right that it is to protest, to protest and to put in doubt the second five options or the second decisions have taken the governments. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.190.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, Mrs Esperança García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.191.0	Mr. Buch, start off badly. So the only thing – the only thing – that I've done is start with a premise that doesn't refer to you, that doesn't form part of the inquiry, that didn't address ideologically anything more than defending a democracy of quality, and you do, man, we're already starting badly, right? That of the journalists was the context and the text that I said and not another, not another. That said, it's fine, you've given me data on thefts, on plans of special action at home... Well, you're fine with the information you've given us, since you've given me so much to answer the written questions, but I, with the data I've given you, wasn't referring to this kind of theft, because I didn't have everything that was stolen at home and at the commercial establishments, I was talking about thefts with violence or abductions with violence and intimidation that were produced directly to private individuals and outside of establishments or homes. But, well, Fi, welcome the information. I asked him the question, precisely from the four axes I said to him, about political interferences not because I am still presenting this morning, in this Chamber, in absolute mental absence, but because I have the absolute real awareness that, while you say that there are no interferences, the facts that you show are that there are none, they are not very hard; or so, that it is not a problem of hearing or absent presence, but a total awareness that reality does not accompany the words that you say. Look, I already know perfectly well that the law has flaws, that the Mossos have a certain template with their limitations, that you do not like to coordinate or work with other police forces. But, look, I'm telling you one thing: if there's one thing that any agent of any cop has well internalized, it's that they don't do it, but they do everything they can because they're full. When you speak that, as we are part of the People's Party, you must want the society to be anesthetized, it seems to me that you have been absent for practically seven years from the government of Mr. Mariano Rajoy, because practically the first four years of the first legislature were continuous demonstrations. What are you talking about, anaesthetic? If we have been absolutely respectful of the right of demonstration, of trade union freedom and, obviously, of social movements? What I ask you, as head of the Interior and Security, is that you do not allow the use of a right of speech, as may be the right of the manifestation, to lift the rights of those who do not want to manifest, especially considering that there are some that seem that the right to the manifestation, or to activism, has led them, in short, to practice with precursors of explosion. I think it's hard enough because I'm asking you for a little responsibility, among other things, because, to see, I'm asking you as a counselor – and I'm asking you for citizenship – it's a comforting message that squadron moss will be used to secure everyone's rights, because there's no imbalance in the balance, because it's not a major force assumption to guarantee the right to the demonstration and also the right to the free ride. Because, in the end, when we start the rights of others... they just climb the ink of the rights of others. Because these days you are telling us something that is very worrying, and it is: "We must be prepared for what is necessary, for any scenario. And what I'm saying to you, like the People's Party, and on behalf of many Catalans, is that what we're asking for is not that you're asking for patience for any scener, but that you're providing the screen, that you don't allow interference in the design of a device and a police operation that we don't just have security, that it's necessary, and that we're at risk, but you're also protecting the freedom of all Catalans – absolutely from all Catalans, whether or not you're independent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.192.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To make the reply, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.193.0	Thank you, President. Hope..., Member of the House, with a carinyo, eh? - They don't offend who wants to but who can, and I didn't offend me for what you said, huh? Not much less, because among other things I can't be offended by this, to me, you. He told me that wheat answered the questions. Look for a single question that makes your group girl or any group of this room that I have not completed the terms – look for none, look for none, only one. Look for one that we do not complete the terms, one and the other, ask you to look for one; if you do not find one, I ask you to explain publicly that today you have said something that was not certain. Just look for one, one and that's enough. You're looking at five times, aren't you? One and a half. Of all that you have done, of all that the other groups have done, seek out none that the Department of the Interior has not completed the term. Just one. It's not difficult, it would be more difficult if you asked for, fifteen, twenty, thirty; only one is required, one that the Department of the Interior has not completed. Among other things, because there are a lot of people behind you; when you make this statement, know that there are a lot of people behind you who work to answer all the questions that this chamber does: a lot of people who are trying to answer Parliament all the questions they ask, a lot of people who work intensely to be able to answer the chamber, the legislative power. And what you've done today, I think it's a little less to all those people who work, that I'm working to defend them, because they do a very good job, and because they know that it's important for me that the legislative power has the answers that you demand. So if I find one, I won't have a problem apologizing; otherwise, do it yourself, please. The speech he makes to us is very good, but he does not remember, for example, that the People's Party Government has contributed in a way..., to the important debt that the Government of the Spanish State has with the Mosso d'Esquadra, calculated in more than 800_million euros. Do you know how they change things, with 800_million euros? Do you know how many vehicles we can buy from cops? Do you know how many promotions we can make? Do you know how many better we could make out of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And, attention, it's not a grant: it's a signed agreement, it's a signed agreement that goes with the transposition. For the transfer it is said: "You will do this work and I will give you so much money. Turns out we're doing the job and the money's not coming. Not in the camp of Mossos, it is certain; you can say: "Home, not only with the Mossos: you must have money with the additional third arrangement, and you must have money in salvation, and you must have money.... In forty-thousand things, not only in the Mossos, but also in the Mossos and is between..., about 800_million euros. He's talking about heavy ingenuities. Listen to me, there hasn't been one. Another thing is that you take a series of newspapers with very interested editorial lines and interpret that that is true. Another thing is that reality is very different, okay? Therefore, there was no interference. And there is, in some ways, a lack of respect for someone you believe, that defense that the body, that a police body must have its own way of acting, its own way of acting; obviously with political leaders, but with respect to the operational decisions that the police take, among other things because they are police, I do not, therefore, at the time of doing the police work they know more than I do. Says they don't like to coordinate. That's what you say, and it's so wide. What is it based on? If I've taught him all the meetings we do, all the coordination spaces we have. What is it based on? Tell me 'on a solo'-- tell me 'on a solo'. He says: "Don't climb the rights of manifestation... No, we won't climb them – we won't climb them – because they're the rights of speech. And if you read today an article that you happen to publish today in The Vanguard, you will read many of the answers to what you do to me... It was as simple as reading what I was saying. There has already been a public pronouncement: that we guarantee the rights of all Catalans and all Catalans. But this is not the Government's or the Councillor's object, only the Generality Police's, the Squad's, too. He said I told him to get ready for any scener. It's not true. That's what I told Mossos, who's prepared for any scener, because if he's not prepared for any scener and the inside counselor didn't tell them, you'd have the whole right of the world to say that I'm not doing my job well. If I say to the Mossos: "Go to sleep at the parra, that this will go well and not tell them" prepare yourselves for any scenes, you would have all the right of the world to come here and turn me back. But I don't know that. I take it and I say to the Mossos: "Prepare for any scener, because this company expects a lot of you, because the responsibility you have is very great, and the respect that Catalans and Catalans have for you, the Squadron's Squadron's Squadron's Squadron's Squadron, is immense, which is why they are the second most valued institution in this country," he said, "so you must be on the rise. And I'm convinced that the Squad Cushion will be on the rise, because it's solved everything so far and will continue to resolve it so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.194.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about coexistence, freedom and security]] [[300-00180/12]] We continue to move on to the new item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the coexistence, freedom and security of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. To expose the question, Ignacio Martín has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.195.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good late, counselor; good late, deputies and deputies, public attend. Well, today we have an inquiry that has a lot to see with the past, about security, freedom and coexistence in Catalonia. And today, in the morning, at the opening session, at the first part of this parliamentary session, there was a situation in which I believe that it has become quite clear that there is indeed a danger of security in Catalonia, there is a danger of coexistence and freedom in Catalonia, when the President of the Generality says that the response to the Supreme Court's judgment on democracy that occurred on 6 and 7 September in the Parliament of Catalonia, the U d'Octubre and everything that was, in short, the process of separation by the revolutionary way of a democratic state of law like Spain, may end up in a situation of disobedience, as Mr. Torra said. The constant appeal to disobedience to the courts, the constant appeal to the delegitimization of the courts and tribunals operating in this country – to all Spain, but very concretely also of those operating in Catalonia – it is, I believe, one of the most perverse, most disastrous consequences, that has touched the separatist process, and has generated a culture of culture among the people of Catalonia that is not recommenable for a peaceful and peaceful coexistence. You have systematically lost the courts and tribunals working in Catalonia; in fact, the only thing you have done is to speak of ‘political prisoners, as they do every day, day after day, in this Parliament, too, is to be told that the courts prevail, is to be told – as they say, in fact, in an express way – that the judgment is written, and so long as the courts operating here in Spain, that they work and play their prestige, their trajectory and their dignity, are doing poorly their work and are committing one of the most impermissible, most completely unacceptable things for the task of a justice that is to be prevarish. It is a genuine lack of respect that you have for the authorities, for the functioning and for the institutions of the State, including those of the Generality, when they speak in these terms of the courts and tribunals working in Spain. From this point of view, I think it is very important, too, to know your opinion, counselor, and I understand that it will coincide with that of your group and that of the rest of the separatist government, on the expulsion of the Civil Guard from Catalonia. This expulsion from the Civil Guard seems to me to be one of the greatest examples of sectarianism and political irresponsibility that have occurred in the Parliament of Catalonia, in the measure that the Civil Guard is a body and a security force of the State that guards, safeguards and ages for the security and freedom of the citizens of Catalonia exactly as the Squadron Mosses do. The Civil Guard, in the end, I believe that what cannot be done is to try to undermine its prestige, its action in favor of the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia, and above all its collaboration with the Mosso d'Esquadra. In fact, from here on I want to make a claim, a defense of the work done by the Mosso d'Esquadra, because they work on many occasions in very difficult circumstances, with political pressures that prevent them from developing their pocket with all the tranquility that they need to guarantee the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia. That's what the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Trying to expel the Civil Guard of Catalonia, from our land, is, first, an attempt to demonize a body that has guaranteed for many years, for many decades, for 175 years, the security and freedom of all Spanish citizens, which guarantees the free movement and peaceful coexistence of the citizens of Catalonia and which, in short, does nothing but safeguard the rule of law. Your speech, Mr. Buch, Mr. Torra's speech, your Government's speech, what you do is try to undermine, undermine the importance of a rule of law for citizens, equality between citizens and the possibility of peaceful coexistence. You appeal, in the end, to the law of the jungle: when Mr. Torra says today that he will submit to Parliament's judgment the Supreme Court's ruling on the alleged perpetrators of the rebellion in Catalonia in 2017 is laying the groundwork for the democratic liberal state that starts – and, above all, consolidates – after the 1930s in Europe that unites to form a political union, as is the European Union, and recalls the approaches, for example, of the enabling law, in Germany of the 1930s, which said: "Well, the Republic of Weimar, our Constitution says this, but as I govern I can say what I really gain. No, the rule of law precisely what it does is to safeguard the rights and freedoms of all these Members – of you too – and of all the citizens of Catalonia, who have the right to have their government respect that rule of law, have the right to have their government respect their rights and freedoms and not to do as you please with judgments and judicial decisions. [[Greetings.]] The sentence... Karl Popper said democracy is precisely about putting political power under control. And that is the essence of liberal democracy, it is the essence of democracy that is imposed throughout Europe after the 1930s, which is based, precisely, on a system of weights and counterweights, of reciprocal controls between powers, in order to avoid precisely the authoritarian velocities of rulers like you, who claim to be above the law. You are not above the law, Mr Torra is not above the law, he is not who or you are to submit a judicial decision to Parliament. Judicial decisions are complied with, accepted and there is nothing more to talk about. In such a rule of law things work, because if we all follow their reasoning categorically, the reasoning that ‘I do not like this law or ‘I do not like this resolution, and therefore I do not comply with it and submit it to Parliament in which I have a majority in seats that does not correspond to a social majority, and therefore I take advantage of an electoral law that is not even fair, would mean returning to the state of nature, to the law of the jungle in which everyone is judge of his own cause. I believe that this is not the ideal of a democratic society, of a society that wants to be just. James Madison, the federalist, said that if angels ruled men, there would be no need for any control, either internal or external, over governments, but by framing a government that is going to be administered by men over men, the great difficulty lies here: you must allow the government to control the governed and then force it to control itself. But you have very little intention of controlling yourself; therefore, dependence on the people is a control of the exercise of government power, but experience – the historical experience, for example, that of the 1930s in Germany, Italy or the forty years of dictatorship in Spain – has taught us that humanity needs auxiliary precautions to that control by the citizens of government power. It is absolutely indisputable that rulers, like other citizens, must be subject to the rule of law. And you also have to keep one thing in mind: your relationship with the law is a relationship that is positive, you can only do what the laws enable you to do. Citizens have a negative relationship: we can do everything that the law does not forbid us to do, but you have to stick to the Statute of autonomy, the Constitution and the democratic order that guarantees and protects all our rights and freedoms. Mr Buch, I think it is a huge irresponsibility – a huge irresponsibility – that you continue to appeal to disobedience, normalizing the fact that roads are cut, normalizing the fact that tyres are burned in AP-7, normalizing the fact that the normal coexistence of the citizens of Catalonia is altered ; that I, as a parent, have to think about how to take my children to school the day that you have decided to take the streets encouraging the violent, encouraging those who want to precisely alter the normal coexistence between citizens, seems to me to be a huge irresponsibility and a huge injustice for all. I insist: it is the law of the jungle. If everyone were to follow their example, the example that I take the law on my own and I am the judge of my own cause, this would be chaos, Catalonia would be ungovernable. I ask you to be responsible in this respect, because it seems to me that you are being extremely irresponsible. And I would like to ask you: before the Supreme Court's imminent ruling on the possible rebellion of his colleagues currently in provisional detention, what is his behaviour going to be? Are you going to do what Mr. Torra says, which is to call civil disobedience? Are they even going to ask what Mr. Torra said, in fact, that it would be the Parliament of Catalonia that would determine whether prisons were opened? But where have we come from? But what did they think? How can democratic institutions be degraded in this way? I tell you one thing about your claim to do everything you do and that no one has any ability to control your possible sails and your possible excesses: when the Civil Guard is in Catalonia, the citizens of Catalonia – together with the Mossos d'Esquadra – we are more calm. Why? Because the Civil Guard protects and guarantees the honourability, dignity and stability of our institutions and protects and guarantees the rights, freedoms, tranquility, life and freedom of the citizens of Catalonia. So I ask you to answer some of the questions that we have asked you at least and to give us an explanation and tell us if you are willing to disobey the Supreme Court's ruling or even to open prisons to release your co-defendants. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.196.0	There's the word "Interior Counselor." When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.197.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP, now I see that being a Member of Parliament is very difficult, because coming here to fill a minute to say nothing is very complicated. [[Widow's remorse.]] To present an inquiry about coexistence, freedom and security and to come here and pretend to be a constitutional master of law is fine, but, listen to me, we could devote time to doing other things, I tell you the truth. I'm sure he's won his son today, in front of his bench he's won his son. But what real profit do we make from what you said? Because, I'm trying to tell a story, and even lies, about things that have been talked about here and it's been said that they are not, and that you are going back, and you are going back, and you are going back... Why? Because they are interested in creating a report, which is the report that accompanied the application of 155, the application of the Law of National Security... I first thought he was going this way, because he wanted to defend the application of the Law of National Security; then I saw that I didn't lose myself, because you went on such occasions, and in the end I didn't know what question you were asking or what space you were dealing with the Department of Interior. He spoke of the expulsion of the Civil Guard by the government. Listen to me, this was a vote that was made here in Parliament. In any case, you have to go to the chamber, but not to the Government, to vote for one thing or vote for another, but it was not the Government that wanted to say that, it was the Parliament, that said that, and the Parliament... Today you remind us of it all the time – you represent "a million votes," they say; so here they represent more and here they decided that. Well, so that's it, democracy, and here's where it comes out. I can be more in favour or more against the actions they take – this, one of them – but in the end you decide here. And if you represent a_million and it's lower than the other parliamentary groups, you win and lose the votes. But this is democracy, here and where it applies. He spoke of "the rule of law and that it is an authoritarian government. So, precisely, it's a state of law, because the President of the Government of the Generality says: "Listen to me, I will bring here, which is the chamber, the maximum representation of Catalans and Catalans, the decisions. I will not take them alone, the government will not take them at a government meeting on Tuesday, but they will be taken to the Parliament of Catalonia. Another thing is that you say: "Yeah, but it's not good for me, because I don't paint it here, or because I can lose votes here. Well, listen to me, this is democracy: you're more or you're less. Okay? From all directions, you have been indispensable, for example, to the Spanish chamber, to the Congress; for a time you have been indispensable, and you fall or not to vote. I haven't seen a vote, because I've been looking at it in all the session logs and in all the acts, that you don't bring anything, for example, to the Interior Department, to the Squad Coast: these 800_million euros you owe us, right? These skills we're asking for. I haven't seen a vote, all the other way around, all the other way around. So now I come here to say that "I was better off in Congress because there when I am determining what I want and here, how we are less and what the Catalan democracy has decided to apply, it does not interest me, man, so listen to me, tell us that it would have a very low democratic quality, because "the chamber that I gain interests me, the chamber that I lose does not interest me... Home, I think that in this, let us say, the democratic quality is not good enough. He said that "the institutions are degraded", you said: "the institutions are degraded. Do you want me to tell you what degrades the institutions? Shall I tell you? What degrades the institutions is to apply a 155 and close this chamber, which is the popular expression of Catalans and Catalans. This is to degrade institutions, this is to say: "I am above the will of the people, I am above the will of which the people decide, and in this, democracy, there is little this is to degrade institutions. And here in 155 was the degradation of the institution of Parliament, the degradation of the Generality of Catalonia, the degradation of the Mossos d'Esquadra and the degradation of everything that this country has built for many years, and not the Government, Catalans and Catalans. That's degrade the institutions. Because, listen to me, when we arrived at the government now, after 155, it has cost us a lot, a lot, to recover a situation of normality, a lot, it has been extremely complicated, and we are still paying for these effects. And you, as Mrs. Roldán says, "Jalean, jalean, jalean to apply 155. Well, at the end and end of it, I think that you're the one that bothers them, that's that this country is still like us, that this country we're going out, that this country we're talking Catalan, that this country we have public communication media that are the most seen and the most plural; they're the ones that worry and the ones that we have the police own. All of this concerns you, and you were born to fall for it. So today you have representation, but it's not enough to carry what this country has built for many, many years. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.198.0	To make the reply, the Member has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.199.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Counselor, I will take advantage of the fact that Mr. Costa is not here today to repeat some of the sentences you have said in this case, and I hope that Mr. Torrent will not do so. When you talk about why Ciutadans was born or these imaginations, these dystopias that you believe, I will tell you a phrase that will surely be familiar and I assume that will make him look ashamed: "The Catalans have invited the neighbor who is starving. While they ate the steak, we ate yesterday's bread. I, in fact, before I seem to exercise supremacism, xenophobia and racism, yes, exactly of that, that is what the main parties of the European Parliament say about the texts of Torra..., but that is what I say about his sentence in a book that you wrote two years before you were a counselor. This is the finding, the demonstration that the tria, the way the councillors learn in the current dynamic of separatist parties is to find people with the most radical speech, the most anti-Spanish, the most anti-European and, in short, the most anti-universalist that there can be. [[Greetings.]] I'd ask you to do me the favor of, if not, not missing the truth. To say that it bothers us that you speak Catalan is an authentically ridiculous thing. I've already commented on it today that for us català is the most normal thing in the world. I don't know any deputy on this bench, and I assure you that it will never happen, that I will say things like what Mr. Torra said about speaking castle. Has any MP from this chamber of Ciutadans said that speaking Catalan to Catalonia is not normal or speaking Catalan to Spain is not normal? Someone tried, told a journalist that he didn't think to answer in Catalan because he didn't want to, simply? Has any Member of this chamber of the constitutionalist bench neglected such an important language for the Catalans, in this case, like the Catalan, as Mr. Torra and Mrs. Budó have done with the castle? [[Greetings.]] Nationalism always invents imaginary enemies—external, internal, necessary, and obviously in this case we are the internal enemy, the external enemy, we are all. Now, what we need to do, or I think we need to do, is, if not, not fail in the truth, because in the end they end up making a ridiculous mistake. It is not normal for them to invent these supposed claims of Ciutadans in their foundation; it has no sense, it has no basis, it is absolutely contradictory with reality, and in change you do have a galloping anti-Spanishism, you do have an authentic problem with bilingualism in Catalonia, they want to end bilingualism. There are other aspects I wanted to talk about. In two minutes it's true that I couldn't say so many things as I liked, not as much as you said I didn't say anything: I think that something I said and even something with a certain substance, but that in any case it will seem a little bit to you, and I understand, it's your perception and it seems very respectable to me. But these days, these months in Catalonia, I've seen things as worrying as the fact that the language that our children speak at school... [[Greetings.]] I've seen things so worrying that they identify some gentlemen to put Spain's anthem in Barcelona, which is absolutely inverse. I have seen a tolerance or an intention, an intention to take in the work of the Mossos in an absolutely barroera form; I remind you that on the 21st of December, for example, a couple of agents of Mossos d'Esquadra suffered an accident precisely because of the action, for a barricade of the CDR, of the radical separatist commands – thanks that it is not the Lord Costa, who would still make me out to serve the term« command. But in any case, I see everything we've seen these months about his governance and his normalization, the banalization of violence – effectively: the banalization of violence – what's the problem? The problem is that independence is violent? No, no, Mr. Buch. The problem is that you banalize violence, the problem is to have a government that doesn't give importance, the authentic importance, to the extent that it has the fact that some pretend to impose their ideals by the violent way. Why? Because you legitimize these mechanisms to get to your political goals, and you are willing to do anything to try to break through with the rest of Spain, to try to generate confrontation with the rest of Spain and, ultimately, divide the Catalan society. They're doing a lot of damage to Catalan reality, to Catalan society. You can continue to focus on victimism, you can continue to make your speech of dramatic tremendism about reality, but the case is that currently Catalonia is an autonomous community in which it is very well lived. Relations with the rest of Spain could be much better if we didn't have a government that the only thing he's trying to do is generate chrism, generate tension, and divide the Catalans between us. So I'd like them to change their dynamics and start working for the real problems of Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.200.0	To make the reply, the counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.201.0	Thank you, President. Well, I reiterate that I said to the first part of the intervention: you have made an inquiry to the Interior that has nothing to do with the Interior. But, listen to me, they have all the right of the world to do it, but maybe you've been able to address someone else, who's been able to go better or even get better results, right? In fact, I, listening to the speech of his spokesman or president of parliamentary group the diluns in the spectacularly failed motion of censure, saw what he gave in the Chapter of Interior, which I had patience to go and point it out all well, a lot of patience not because they were very few points, you know that, well, here we say that there is little proposal in the matter of Interior on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens. A lot of proposals to destroy, to criticise, to say that... but proposed, in this case, "we want to do, we want to stop doing, that is, not one. That's right, proposals for things to be done there where you have the opportunity to do it, which is at the Congress, because that's where things are decided – badly, because I'd like to decide them here, for example the Criminal Code would like to decide here, wouldn't it? But it is decided in the Congress of Deputies – there you do not change. His doorman came to say, "The thieves come in through one door and go out through the other. And here the Parliament of Catalonia can change, from here? – What can change from here? That's in the penal code. And have you made any reform proposals to retouch all this? Not one. Her spokesman or her group president said: "We will end the occupations. Another law that deposes from the Congress of Deputies, do not depose from here. In change there they have done nothing, neither when they can nor when they cannot – they have not done it. Now, yes, here we come to explain that "we will do, we will do, we will do. He accused us of leaving office and the neighbours were insecure. Home, so look, it's true that security, and I'm also explaining it... and there's no longer the People's Party company, but I always say that security has the objective and the subjective. The next objective is the data – the data of crime, the data of crime – and the subjective is the reality, the perception that the citizens have, okay? And they can go to one, they can be both in high or low, they can go separately, okay? So, listen, the veins of Catalonia are not insecure; we just need to compare the data with other European capitals, and they are not insecure. The crime indexes are not the highest in Barcelona, nor much less; therefore, the viewers are not insecure. He also blamed me for how many detainees I'd done to pursue the people who were manifesting, and now you're complaining that the people are manifest. It's surprising. She said: "Everyone knows that it is to persecute those who want to manifest, "Mr. Buch, have you arrested anyone for persecution? He said it here for a while, didn't he? – said a few, in that failed motion of censure of a few, well, that television spot in front of the 10-N campaign, he said that. And today he's telling me that people are manifest. What are we staying at? Who do I pay attention to: Mrs. Roldán or you? Do you want people to be manifesti or do you want people not manifesti? I want people to be manifest, in a country that guarantees citizens' rights, to be able to manifest and the police to protect this right from manifestation. She also has to protect the others, the police always have to be in the middle. That's how the legal order marks it, and that's how the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And about the half-hour I did about the tax office, which you talked about, read about it. First, I didn't write a book, it's an example that I was asking, and it's an example that I was asking when you compared Catalan solidarity economically with the rest of the territories of the autonomous communities. And if it's true that this country produces ice, when it divides, by order of the Government of the Spanish State, other communities are richer and we become a poorer community compared to them. And that's unfair, because this country is supportive but to be all the same, not because other children or other gatherings have much more resources than Catalans thanks to our solidarity. So, to be the same, yeah, and this is the half-hour I put in. [[Widow's remorse.]] And if I want to, then I just explained...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.202.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.203.0	...but this is the half-way I put myself: I did not compare Catalans between Catalans, I spoke of solidarity with the rest of the Spanish State. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-09-3901.204.0	Thank you, Counselor. After this inquiry, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning.
