ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.1.0	Good morning. MPs, MPs, the session begins. [[Motion of censure to the President and the Government of the Generality and proposal of the deputy Lorraine Roldán Suárez as a candidate for the presidency]] [[205,000,0001/12]] The only item on the agenda of this plenary session is the debate and vote of the motion of censure on the President and the Government of the Generality and proposal of the deputy Lorraine Roldán Suárez as a candidate for the presidency. This debate will be governed by what is laid down in Article 152 of the Rules of Procedure. Thus, in the first place, for the defense of the motion of censure presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word, in his name, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.2.0	Good morning. Members, Members, President, authorities accompanying us today, in this Parliament in Catalonia, only three motions of censure have been held in almost forty years of democracy. And two of them came to vote if and the other one didn't, because it didn't even get to the voting procedure. And that is the case – only those three previous motions of censure – because it is an exceptional recourse; it is not usual, in democracies, to introduce motions of censure, and even less to prosper. And in Catalonia it is clear that putting a motion of censure with the current distribution of forces in the seats, which, as everyone knows, gives a majority to separatism under that electoral law that also for forty years of democracy has not interested to change anyone – certainly not to nationalism, but not to the People's Party and the Socialist Party, in forty years of democracy –..., they began to change an electoral law that prioritises the nationalist vote in Catalonia. This is the case, and therefore there is a special difficulty today in ensuring that this motion of censure thrives. But this is not just any motion of censure, we are not at any political moment. This is a motion for coexistence, for a coexistence that is in danger; for a coexistence that, if things continue like this, of continuing the President of the Generalitat, Mr. Torra, at the head of a government that is questioning the most sacred that exists in societies, that is coexistence... It has forced us to put this motion of censorship and prove that it is possible to be sensible, that it is possible another government; that this government that we suffer is not a biblical curse; that, in fact, through the votes, through democracy, we could rid ourselves of a government that has put all the seams of democracy in question and that, moreover, now already questions coexistence. And it is that this does not come only from the last plenary, although mainly from there, with the shameful applause that this bench dedicated to the people who were arrested and accused of terrorism by the National High Court and imprisoned. That matters a lot, of course, but it's not everything. Because you have been..., you, Mr Torra, already have a history of almost a year of violation of the rights of Catalans, of challenge to democracy and, of course, of deterioration of coexistence. And so, on September 16, 2018, just a year ago, that September 16, 2018 the CDR occupied the square of Sant Jaume. For what? To prevent a demonstration of a group called We Speak Spanish. And on the 29th of September l'Associació Observatori de la Catalanofóbia also forced to alter a manifestation that spoke in favor of bilingualism. On both occasions, the Home Office did not guarantee the right of demonstrators to protest. It gave priority to reviving fundamental rights, the right of citizens to demonstrate, in favour of the CoRs. The CDRs decided that that had to be blown up, and it blew up. On October 1, 2018, after these events, Mr.Torra uttered his famous phrases: « Press, press; do well to press. Just afterward, the CDRs besieged the Chief of the National Police in Via Layetana and tried to force the Parliament. These violent acts forced the Mossos d'Esquadra to intervene, in order to stop the attack on these two public institutions, and thirty-two mossos d'ésquadra were injured. In addition to these incidents, radical groups, the CDRs, cut off the AP-7 road in Tarragona, cut off the AVE in Girona and violently assaulted the Government Delegation of the Generalitat in Girona. Shortly afterwards, President Torra's famous tweet comes out advocating the Slovenian way: "The Catalans have lost their way. They don't make us for it. There's no going back on the road to freedom. The Slovenians decided to pull all the consequences forward. We're like them and we're willing to do everything we can to be free. This tweet appeared on official Twitter of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. To go to the Slovenian way, the way of the dead, for secession; that is what Mr Torra said. And now I'm going to start addressing myself, too, to the socialist bench. Lords of the Socialist Party, Mr Torra said, the Slovenian way. I say this because a number of things are going to happen here that I believe will deserve reflection from the Socialist Party. What happened after that Slovenian way tweet? For Mr. Torra gave Mr. Buch, the Interior Counsellor, four days to make changes in the Interior, after the charges. In other words, he wanted to guarantee the impunity of the CoRs, he was upset that the Mossos d'Esquadra would repel the riots and riots organized by the CoRs. On 28 September, after this small account of what it is to encourage, induce and support the violence of the separatist commands, it turns out that we are – and now I am jumping to September 2019 – with nine people arrested by the Central Court of Instruction No. 6 of the National Court, accused of crimes of rebellion, terrorism and possession of explosives. Within the plans that they had, it has been possible to know, these people, would be planned to attack this same Parliament of Catalonia. It appears that this radical group, in which the detainees were included, had participated in these public disorders that occurred on 21 December 2018, when the Council of Ministers came here to meet. I remind you that this prompted us to file a complaint with the High Court of Justice, because you were constantly encouraging us to prevent the Council of Ministers from meeting here. That complaint, in the end, at least made it possible for you to put in place the means for the Council of Ministers to take place here. This which happened in December 2018 has, curiously, had another reflection on these arrests that took place from this command that has entered prison accused of terrorism. And it is that, according to the leaks – and you have not denied it and you have not said anything, Mr. Puignero, Mr. Torra –, the Cesicat, which is the Catalan CNI, which depends on that instrument, on that Digital Policy Council – which is a black hole of money, which gives us no data or reference of what activities are being done here, which eludes all those responsible for them –..., it turns out that, curiously, according to what has been leaked from the summary at the National Audience, the Cesicat say that they could have collaborated to make tests for that group that has been arrested, tests of communications in that group that is arrested. Look, in addition to all this..., these are the facts, worlds and lrondos, and now come the statements of Mr. Torra. Mr. Torra, when these people were arrested, accused of terrorism, apart from applauding, previously said that "it was another repressive maneuver of l'Estat, that the only violence that existed and the only ones that orchestrated it..., was that of the Civil Guard and that of the Spanish National Police. He spoke of gratuitous violence and police brutality; he spoke of being invented, that all this was something invented, that it is a false account of violence in Catalonia; that they are fed up with threats. He says: "Indwellings are too large at other hours of the morning, with sleeping creatures. They will go against all of us, and every one of us, and they will accuse us, if anything, of violence, if anything, of terrorism; if anything, they will make it up. Mr. Torra, can you really look into the eyes of the Catalans, when you are giving explicit support to the people who are allegedly seeking attention in Catalonia? Really? Really, Mr. Iceta, don't you see the immense gravity of what this President of the Generalitat is doing? Do they not really believe that a motion of censure is a political opportunity for them, without prejudice to the legal responsibilities that they may have in their day...? If the leaks that are happening, from your relations with this CoR, are in the end certain, without prejudice to your legal responsibilities, really, Socialist Party gentlemen, Mr Pedro Sánchez – who I am addressing him too – is not enough? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, don't smile – don't smile. I think the population cares a lot about this issue. That in Catalonia, that there was already a terrorist gang, that stopped exercising in 1991, that was called Terra Lliure..., that in Spain, that we have had for sixty years a terrorist gang that was called ETA, that they killed for the independence of their respective territories, we have some deputies and a president of the Generalitat at the head of them that applauds those who put in prison the National Audience is not to laugh at themselves, gentlemen of the socialist bench – it is not to laugh at themselves. It's not to laugh, it's to worry. And it is for, as I said to you, without prejudice to the legal responsibilities that may arise in your case, that political responsibilities are required. And the motion of censure is political responsibility for antonomasy. Not to say to Mr. Torra: "I accuse you, but to say to you: "I blame you, Mr. Torra." I blame him for his applause. I blame you for your support for the CDRs. I blame you for not respecting democracy. And I blame you because you are the greatest architect and the executioner and the ultimate responsible for the breakdown of coexistence that may exist in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] "The CDR arrested, the command they arrested, has done nothing. He didn't do anything, he didn't attack anyone. There are two of them who have confessed that they were collecting material to make sandstone and rubber-2, explosives. There are two confessions. Apparently, because it's in summary secrecy, but that's transcended. [[Widow's remorse.]] But that has transcended. But that has transcended. Have you two disarrayed? You guys... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Let's see... do you know...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.3.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.4.0	Do you know these people who were arrested? Do you know them personally, Mr. Torra? They, apparently, say yes. I ask you whether you know them or not. Because if you know them, you'll have to explain why you know them. But if you don't know them, what do you do by applauding and advocating for your kindness and freedom? Because they are independenceists? Is it that all independent voters are seraphic and light beings? [[Widow's remorse.]] Does no one ever advocate violence? Despite the existence of Terra Lliure, despite the fact that we are beaten up by the sieges, despite the fact that we are always insulted by social networks, despite the fact that our directors throughout the Catalan territory suffer constant threats, painted, signals...Despite all this, you say that this is a police assembly. Look, all of this has led us to this motion of censure. There are many more things, of course, that must be blamed on this government: its absolute inaction over all these months that you have been in the government. But, look, these are political issues on which it is difficult to bring the entire opposition together to make a motion of censure. But in such basic issues of coexistence, when there is a part of the population that supposedly chooses to throw through the violent path to impose their ideas, then it is not necessary for the Democrats to come together and say: "Violence, no; democracy, yes? Isn't that it? Isn't it that easy? I believe that everyone in their homes, everyone who sees us, between democracy and violence, chooses democracy. And with this motion of censure, what is intended is that all democrats say: "Violence, no; coexistence, yes. I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist bench, why can't you stand by the side of coexistence and go stand by those who applaud violence. I don't understand, honestly. [[Greetings.]] Look, Mr. Torra is a president that we, from the beginning, questioned – from the beginning. First, because the institution of the presidency of the Generalitat is demerited by declaring himself a vicar president of a fugitive from justice. First of all, that lack of respect for the institution that makes it dependent on a man who fled Spain to evade his judicial responsibilities. And then the second thing: by the racist writings, so qualified by the three main opposition parties, and I almost turn around now so that the warnings and expulsions do not start, because here every time we talk about what Mr. Torra wrote, it seems that we have written it. Mr. Torra wrote it! [[Greetings.]] Well, you, it's normal... you've had the support, then, of Salvini, of the True Finns, of the Flemish separatists, of the entire far right. And you have some articles against immigration..., then hurry to sign government tables in favor of immigration, when you have been one of those who have left in writing that Catalonia's identity is in danger under the ‘immigration alud' – you left it so in writing. Therefore, Mr Torra had already degraded the institution of the Generalitat since he arrived. And all those who voted for him for me will always sin with the memory of who they supported in the investiture when they inverted Mr. Torra. But, well, here we had it. [[Greetings.]] Mr Torra has wanted us to disconnect from democracy and Spain, and is the greatest adept of the persistence in the coup to democracy that we live in this Parliament. He says: "We will do it again. We say: "They will slow me down again. Socialists say... oh, no, they don't say anything. [[Greetings.]] You encourage disobedience, civil disobedience and institutional disobedience. Institutional disobedience means: "We, the separatist politicians, do not give you permission to disobey. But you don't put on a Spanish anthem, do you? They're sending him to the Mossos. [[Greetings.]] What's that? What is this about encouraging a State official from institutions to disobedience? You are not going to charge us taxes, you are not going to impose sanctions, you are not going to put the Mossos to do their duties of regulating traffic? Or can only what separatists say and want to be disobeyed be disobeyed? It's amazing. It's amazing, Mr. Torra. Call for disobedience, socialists, for institutional disobedience. You call all the State's judicial proceedings repressive, by formula, eh? That is, the Civil Guard has been repressive when he made these arrests to the allegedly terrorist command; always, everything that has led the process, because..., they have been evil judges. We have asked for a list of the courts that have intervened in matters relating to the trial or, for example, with the inaction of the Mossos on 1 October by order of their chiefs; the High Court of Justice, for the disobedience of Arthur Mas, Rigau and Joana Ortega ; the Supreme Court, for the disobedience of Homs ; the Court of Auditors, for embezzlement ; the Judgement number 13, for the preparations of the coup ; the High Court of Justice, therefore, for the investigation and enforcement of the defendants, of ex-members of the Bureau of Parliament, minus Mrs Forcadell ; the National Court, to Trapero and to the chiefs of the Mossos ; the Constitutional Court, by prosecuting illegal issues that you have made here; the Supreme Court, in the famous judgment that we will now know ; the European Court of Human Rights, for the various actions to stop the coup, that you have appealed and that you have finished valid the European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice, the European Court of Justice, the Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice. One hundred and twenty magistrates and thirty prosecutors – more or less, close to those figures – all bad, franchisors, bought, all the worst, repressors of a state that... How is it possible, if all these rulings that are falling, all these resolutions, are making them an independent power? And you... are each and every one of those magistrates, all of you, bad? Are all prosecutors? Or is it that you are simply doing things that you should not and get the court action and reaction over and over again? Finally, I refer to violence in separatism. Look, you were characterized by saying that your process was a civic, democratic and peaceful movement. Civic isn't, because he's not born of citizenship. It is born of the elites, of the political elites, who direct everything at all times, who inflate the money and put the Administration at the service of separatism, designed from above, with the Llibre blanc of the process and with everything they want, all the means, from the elite. It's not civic. It's not democratic. They demonstrated this on 6 and 7 September with the coup against democracy that they gave, which was shameful, that they overthrew the rights of all the Members, that they shamed this chamber and that they showed that you were formerly separatists, independentists, that democrats. Because for the end of independence it is worth carrying democracy. And that's what you did on September 6th and 7th. But as far as its supposed peaceful character is concerned, I will tell you that in Catalonia we all know..., all those who live in Catalonia know the pressure that every person who wants to manifest himself simply Spanish and Catalan, the pressure of the marking, the pressure of the insult– « facha –», the pressure of the insult and the pressure on networks. The parties that we do not communicate with the ideas of the government suffer from 'glazing of the crystals of our headquarters, and then nobody investigates them. Mr. Buch, how's it going? That the lords of Arran said with a video on the networks: "It was us. How's it going? Have you arrested anyone, Mr. Buch? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Oh, that's weird. For we suffer violence of different intensities. And now that the sentence comes, the moment of truth comes. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, the moment of truth is coming. Because this is the moment they've been announcing to us. It is the moment that..., a year ago, Mr Torra, with the CDRs, when he spoke – so recklessly, that they always record him – then he said to them: "No, no, no, wait, wait. The moment of the revolt will come with the feeling. That moment will come: that sentence comes this week. And we have to send a strong message, the Democrats: "Violence, no. Violence, no, Mr. Torra. Stop threatening us with what they're going to do in the sentence. Stop applauding people who, when they are applauded in the prison in which they are in, will think: "We have been applauded by the Parliament of Catalonia. We're heroes. We've been supported. They have supported us, the Parliament of Catalonia. Do you know what this means, encouraging all those more or less fanatical people, who, in the end... think that they are soldiers from Catalonia who are going to defend freedoms against that Francoist and oppressive State that you draw irresponsibly? When they applaud they are causing that, and that is already the last step of violence and the breakdown of coexistence. We've reached the last step. In Spain we had never seen this, I told you at first. Never did a Basque lehendakari applaud anyone who went to prison on orders from the National Court accused of terrorism. Never. [[Greetings.]] And you did, Mr. Torra. Mr Torra has done so, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. You know very well that the Citizens program that we are going to develop here with my partner and candidate Lorraine Roldán, therefore, is a program on which you will surely not agree at all. It is a program for all Catalans, it is a program mainly thinking about coexistence. We... it's a feasible program, too, because we're already ruling in other autonomous communities. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, and the party that you always thought of... Mr. Montilla said: "You will disappear the next parliamentary term. Look, there you have Mr. Albert Rivera, Mrs. Inés Arrimadas, Fernando de Páramo and José María Espejo, all deputies, ex-president of Parliament... All born politically here, born by coexistence, born to help solve this problem that we have in Catalonia. And this problem only sharpens itself, and it does not sharpen because I raised my voice the other day and frowned on those who applauded terrorists. That is not to make the problem worse; that is to give it the dimension it deserves. And to bring this motion of censure here today, to Parliament, is to give that problem the dimension it deserves. We need the Democrats to be clear that we cannot stand by those who support violence and the breakdown of coexistence; we cannot. I was telling you, Socialist Party gentlemen, that with your vote today, what you would be doing is support for democracy and it is censorship of Mr Torra. Because the Citizens' programme is very difficult to implement, because, yes, we all know that the crutch of separatism, which is Podemos, in this Parliament, is never going to support that censorship of separatism – never, never will support it – but you could be on the side of those who support democracy and coexistence, and it would be today's message, it would be today's message to all citizens who hope that, in politics, the great principles will unite us, unite the Democrats, and that censorship of the options that break coexistence must be clear and conclusive. That's what it says about us in front of the citizenry. Few things politicians can contribute more today to the noise of societies. We are very criticized, and rightly so, many times; but when we have to stand by democracy, freedom, when we have to stand against violence and those who break up together, we would expect the vote of all the constitutional democrats in this Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.5.0	Next, the government can intervene, and in her name has the word the Presidency Counsellor, Mrs. Meritxell Budó. When he wants to, he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.6.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, I take the floor to express the position of the Government of the Government of Catalonia in this extraordinary plenary devoted to debating a motion of censure presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. A debate conveniently convened for the Bureau, in time and form, and in accordance with the rule governing the functioning of our Parliament. The mechanism of censoring governments is expected to take place in democratic countries. It is a way to change the execution when they have lost the support of the legislature without having to compete in an electoral process. Unfortunately, however, today we find ourselves in front of a case of misuse of this mechanism, and I take the word precisely to express, on behalf of the Government, the disagreement in the use of institutions for merely partisan interests. The Parliament of Catalonia is a democratic institution, its representation of Catalans and Catalans; it is the expression of the sovereign will of the people of Catalonia. But today some people who want and who are looking for are watching in their parliament an election act of a party, and not a debate will be, respectful and democratic that should characterize a debate like this. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, this is not a bar, this is not a TV set, this is not a flag for campaigning; this is the Parliament of Catalonia. Today we find ourselves in front of an alleged motion of censure that is only in the formal aspect. In fact, a few days have passed since the call for general elections until the announcement of the motion of censure, and the group that pushes it – the group that pushes it – knew from the very moment she announced that she had no option to get the necessary supports because she prospered. And it is no accident that the group presenting it is the same group that resigned from running for the inaugural legislature. It doesn't seem that anything has changed much since then for what it does to the support that should have been accumulating this past year; the earlier it was to the contrary. And it is that, as you all know, eleven days ago – eleven days ago – this very Parliament failed by an absolute majority the candidate that is just present today. The driving group of the motion of censure, and therefore the candidate you are presenting today, is making an interested and fraudulent use of this institution, which is the Parliament of Catalonia, and, last but not least, and if I may, also of the public resources that it has quite devoted to the celebration of this extraordinary Ple. This misuse of the motion of censure does not seem to us, nor does it respect Parliament – and this is even harder – with the citizens who are represented there. You want to get a few hours of pharystoll to tackle your threats, your insults, your slanders, your checks on the saying – your checks on the saying – or to use filters to make statements..., as we have just seen in the intervention that preceded me. And today, with their play, with the evil they're doing with this censorship mechanism, maybe they'll get this TV time that they're talking about a few days before the Spanish elections, but let me tell you one thing: we won't contribute. And precisely because we do not want to be accomplices of this evil use of the mechanism of the motion of censure or this lack of respect for our Parliament, the intervention of the Government makes it as a spokesman, and, moreover, I will make it intentionally short. And I will intentionally make it short because only 11 days ago the general policy debate was celebrated, and it has already been done in this Parliament a deep debate. A general policy debate in which Parliament approved seventy-seven – seventy-seven – motions for resolutions. And, from these motions for resolutions, a forty-year-old has been signed by the groups that support the Government. All the proposals put forward by the groups supporting the Government have been approved by this Parliament. Frankly, eleven days after a general policy debate in which the government obtained a support that we were going to get doesn't seem the best time to censor it – a motif to make us think that this motion of censoring only seeks electoral results. It is hard to believe that the Ciutadans group can build a real alternative today, when eleven days ago of the seventy-seven motions for resolutions that were approved, and only seven—only seven—were from their group. And if that is not enough, let me point out that one of the resolutions approved by Parliament says: "The Parliament of Catalonia expresses the support of this chamber to the Parliament of the Generality, very honorable Mr Joaquim Torra and Pla, in its defence of the right to freedom of expression and collective freedoms of this country, and rejects the imposition of the fines and expedients brought in. A parliament, as I said before, which failed the statements of whom curiously today is presented as the candidate. I mean, in just 11 days, she's been reproved by an absolute majority to introduce herself to the unsupported candidate. Actually, lords of Ciutadans, they care very little about what they want and think of the majority of the people of Catalonia. They are only interested in repeating and repeating their lies and their deliberately distorted version of the reality of Catalonia. They're only interested in conflict and spectacle. In fact, that's why his game was born: to divide and to stir up the conflict where there was none, to break up the coexistence – this coexistence from which all day long the mouth fills. You, of the "Real Catalonia of the Zero Mayors. Mirin, that's how they'll never rule Catalonia. In fact, everyone knows that the authentic breath that is beginning to deflate is theirs, and that's why they're already acting desperate and in the most sceptical way. They're starting to be a bad cartoon of yourselves. Its aim is not to solve the real problems of the citizens, a phrase which in its mouth is authentically empty of content, because what they really want to say when they say "to talk about the real problems of the citizens is to close and toss the most important real conflict we have and that there is on the table, and that is the relationship, the fit, between Catalonia and Spain". Finally, playing with institutions that represent citizens is not a good way to go. And they can't say we didn't tell them. For this path, for the back door and pervert the system, they won't get mixed up. President, I'm done. Despite the threats, despite the slanders, despite the many and the injustices, thanks for keeping you faithful to the U of October's experience. The government, we're keeping our trust in you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.7.0	Next, to expose the political program, the presidential candidate, Ms. Lorena Roldán, has the words. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.8.0	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torra, wow, looks like you've been muted. Or are you not interested in what we came here to talk about today? Or are you not interested in talking to that other Catalonia, that Catalonia that you humiliate and despise day after day? That Catalonia you don't even see, that Catalonia you've turned your back on again today. You have taken out Mrs Budó, who, of course, is the clear proof that this motion of censure for coexistence is necessary. Mrs. Budó, who says speaking Spanish is segregating! Those are the counselors you have. That's how you are: you think Spanish is segregation. It forbids speaking in Spanish at press conferences in this Parliament and in the Government. Those are the counselors you choose. Mrs. Budo, you've come out here and... well, I don't even know how to qualify it. You told me that I..., I pointed it out: you accused me of making fraudulent use of the money of all Catalans. You, precisely you, Mrs. Budó, the same person who was mayor went to Waterloo to see the fugitive from justice paying with the money of all his neighbors. [[Greetings.]] Yes, ma'am, you! Paying with the Consistory's money, you had to return it from the shame it gave you, Mrs. Budó. And you tell me that we fraudulently use institutions? Of course... But the truth is, I want to focus on what we've come to talk about here today. Today's not just any day. Today is a day on which we will finally focus on what is really important: the Catalans. Let's talk about how to get Catalonia back. Let's talk about a sensible government option. Let's talk about health, let's talk about education, let's talk about employment, let's talk about everything this Parliament should do. And today in Citizens we reopen this Parliament, after you have tried to gag the opposition, after you have censored us and even expelled us from this chamber. But today Citizens bring here the voice of a majority of Catalans who are tired, who are tired, but that is that now, moreover, they are also scared. A majority of Catalans you don't see, you don't want to look at, but you're going to have to listen to today. [[Some applause.]] Look, today's a big day for Catalonia. It's a big day for democracy in capitals. A big day to give you see this majority and say enough. That's enough, that's enough; we have to stop this drift and we have to correct the course. Today, as the leader of the first party in Catalonia, as the leader of Ciutadans de Catalunya, but not just like this, but also as the Catalan who esteems his land, I want to make a call to all the deputies. Those of us who are in these scandals have the honor, the privilege, of representing all Catalans, but we also have the responsibility to stand up, to the margin of political colour or the acronyms of our parties. I ask you to face this democratic urgency together. We have to recover the seny, we have to recover coexistence and we have to recover normality in Catalonia. Today, moreover, we have the possibility to take away from Mr Torra the reins of the future of more than seven million Catalans, to tell him that it is over, to tell him that enough is enough. Mr. Torra, this no longer gives you, and you know it. You lost a long time ago. Your defeat is coming from far away already, because you, from the first day, from the minute one, put the institutions of all Catalans at the service of the most radical. Ladies and gentlemen, on 6 and 7 September 2017 were infamous days. Separatism consumed its plan against Catalonia, against the rest of Spain and also against democracy. At the time, we Members of the opposition understood what we had to do: to assume that it was not a time to make excuses, that it was not a time to hesitate, because there was only one option: to stop the coup. And today we are moved here for the same reason. Today we stand here in defense of democracy, firm in defense of freedom, something that is above our respective ideologies or the acronyms of each one. You continue in the same, you continue to use the institutions – which are of all – to violate the rights of Catalans, implementing a totalitarian plan that not only undermines coexistence, it also violates security. When the news speaks of you, your names appear next to « explosives, « alleged terrorists, « plans to assault Parliament ; plans, Mr Torra, which even seems to be that you knew. In the last few days there has been one before and one after. Look, you've gone too far, and you know it. Those two years ago we defended democracy, we defended freedom, we defended coexistence, we had to be as united as then, and I don't think being up to it is even an option. With this motion of censure the Democrats have to tell the Catalans, and the rest of the Spanish, and also the entire international community, that there is a responsible opposition in Catalonia, there is a courageous opposition, which will be able to slow down the feet of those who want to tread all the red lines of democracy. Who would have thought two years ago, Mr. Torra, that someone like you would appear on the scene? Who would have thought two years ago that you would be even worse than Puigdemont? Who could have imagined it? But it is that Mr Puigdemont, the fugitive from justice, knew very well who he left as heir to his ruin: to the author of those articles that say that the Spaniards are wild beasts, beasts with human form, that have a bump in their DNA chain, and that we speak the tongue of the vipers. No more or less than Mr. Quim Torra. [[Greetings.]] And here we are. Here we are again, two years later, at a serious moment: grave because the Catalans are no longer only concerned about the terrible social fracture or the institutional crisis in which we have suffered for years; grave also because now, moreover, there is fear, Mr Torra, because there are detained people, radical separatists, who had plans to attack in Catalonia, who had plans to attack this Parliament. And what have you done, Mr. Torra? I'm asking you. What have you done? What have you done when the way of violence is on the table, when the way of violence is a reality? What have you done? Shall I tell you? [[Pause.]] To applaud and holler at seven alleged terrorists, to expel the Civil Guard from Catalonia and to holler at those who – I insist – have chosen the path of violence. You've abandoned millions of Catalans. You have launched a message of impunity for the violent and a message of warning and harassment of the police, which is who protects us. A tremendous irresponsibility, Mr Torra; you threaten the Democrats while encouraging radicals investigated by terrorism at the National High Court. You are using this Parliament no longer just as a gear to, again, strike Catalonia – which also – but you are also using it as an instrument for one-sided thinking, to expel democrats and defend and applaud suspected terrorists. This is what you are doing in this Parliament, Mr Torra. And I ask: does any of you there think explosives are a good idea? Does it seem to anyone out there that assaulting this Parliament is a good idea? Really? Is there no one left there, in that bench, no one left, within the independence parties, who has a minimum of common sense? Isn't there anyone there, Mr. Torra? Think about what I am telling you, because it is very serious, what you have done in this Parliament. You are not able to compromise yourself with democracy. You are not able to put coexistence above your ideology. And Catalans don't deserve this. We don't deserve this, Mr. Torra. The Government of Catalonia does not belong to the separatist commands. The Government of Catalonia belongs to all Catalans, and today the Democrats have the opportunity to return it. Mr. Torra, you are the protagonist of an escalation of barbarities that is leading us all into the abyss. You insult all Spaniards, you treat as heroes to those condemned for terrorism, you order separatist commands to tighten, defend the alleged terrorists, and, moreover, it is that you are related to you, even in court, to these people, with these plans to attack in Catalonia. Don't you see what you're doing? Really? Don't you realize...? When I tell you it's a public danger, don't you realize why I tell you, for applauding and hollering at alleged terrorists? It is that small sheet of services you have to be the president of the Generalitat – small sheet of services, Mr Torra. Look, today we are here so that in a few years' time Catalans can look back and, in the meantime, black date on the calendar, they can remember today, October 7, 2019, and they are proud to know that there were some political representatives who were on the right side of history. Today we have the obligation to regain the spirit of October 8, 2017, when the constitutionalists unite to defend coexistence and freedom in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Look, when in the future our children judge us, I want them to find relief by knowing that the Democrats were able to put a stop and get us away once and for all from the cliff. Today we Members who are here have to say 'yes': yes to coexistence, yes to democracy, yes to freedom, yes to return normality to Catalonia. Today we have to say 'yes'. We must all go together, because we already deserve to put an end to this long night of the process, a stage that has brought us nothing good. We deserve to be able to look back and say that we did it, that we corrected it in time and that we did it together. [[Greetings.]] It's too many years already putting up with trying to divide us. Let's turn this nightmare into a lesson for history: another Catalonia is possible, a Catalonia without a process, a Catalonia for all, with freedom, where no one points to you for what you think. And it's in our hands, Members of Parliament. This motion can be the first step towards a new Catalonia in which there is room for everyone and where trust among citizens is regained. Because, look, in order to regain coexistence, violence must be eradicated; in order to regain freedom, intolerance must be eliminated; in order to regain democracy, totalitarians must be eliminated. And I tell you one thing: to work for all Catalans, first we have to turn Mr. Tora away. It is essential, with this motion, to remove Mr. Torra, to work for the Catalans. [[Greetings.]] It is a moral imperative, to censor a government that encourages and jealouss radicals, that defends those who are being investigated for terrorism in the National Audience. So today we present this motion of censure, because if we didn't, the radicals would win. Because evil progresses when the good do nothing, because, as Eduardo Mendoza writes, "the truth is sometimes the opposite of lies and sometimes the opposite of silence. MPs, MPs, rights are at stake. The freedoms and security of all Catalans are at stake. This motion of censure is a moral obligation not only for Citizens, not for the People's Party or for the Socialist Party, or for Podemos, no; it is a moral obligation for any Democrat, for any constitutionalist. Because, look, we in Citizens were the first to report that the process would come this far, that the point to whom you think different, that the imposition of identity, that these lists of good and bad Catalans that you are dedicated to doing were not going to end well. We knew it, we warned it. And so they pointed out to us, they harassed us, and the worst part of it is that they continue to do so. Councillors and citizens' offices know it well, they suffer it in their own meats in those municipalities where it is more difficult to defend freedom. And do you know why they point and harass them? Simply by saying something that is already obvious today, and that is that you have gone too far. But the important thing is not who came first, who was here or who profiled, but who is going to be on the side of democracy today. And I say this with the concern that gives us so many people, so many Catalans, to have come this far. I say this with the disappointment of having seen how for decades bipartisanism has been sold to separatism, and how it has looked elsewhere when it came to defending the freedom and equality of all citizens. I say this, above all, with the sadness of not recognizing the Catalonia in which I was born. It is true that today the Catalans have a lever of change that twenty years ago we had not even dreamed of. For the first time a constitutionalist party won the elections in Catalonia, and today it is the first party. But today... [[applause]] Today we are not here as leaders of Citizens, today we are not here as leaders of the opposition or even militants of Citizens; today we are here as democrats, as democrats who cannot shut up when they see that in this Parliament people are jealous and legitimized those who have chosen violence as an option. We can't shut up, we have to raise our voice. [[Greetings.]] Members, what we are voting on today has consequences. We, of course, will not fail the constitutionalists. And I want to ask the other groups to join us: we are not going to ask for meat, we are not going to look at the political colour of Members or we are not going to look at the mistakes of the past. We're just asking the Democrats to reunite under the spirit of October 8, 2017. [[Greetings.]] Look, Mr. Torra, there is no good violence; all violence is intolerable. And in this Parliament you and the rest of your fellow Members, many Members on that bench, applauded people who are now alleged to be accused of terrorism. This motion of censure is a motion for coexistence, to unite all Catalans again. And let no one be confused: we do not censor you as a separatist, Mr Torra; we censor you for bringing Catalonia into the abyss. I never imagined... [[applause]] I never imagined that this Parliament would vote to legitimise violence. I had never crossed my mind that you would be able to vote in this Parliament to legitimise violence. I insist, violence never has justification. That's why, Mr. Torra, we have to censor you today. And I also appeal to the rest of the parties: precisely because in democracy never – never – violence is justifiable, we have to censor the one who is jealous, applauds and protects the violent. [[Greetings.]] It has been the drop that has filled the glass, Mr Torra, that has already filled the patience of the Catalans, who are tired of enduring them, who have also endured enough. So today we offer this motion of censorship for coexistence, for all those friendships and broken families, for all those people who have been afraid to say what they thought, for all those families who want their children in school to teach them to think and not what to think, for all those people who have felt foreign in their own country. These are the reasons that led us to present this motion of censure for coexistence. But I also want to explain to you how we got here. This story comes from a long way: every nationalism is an old ideology, it's a story that has been telling us for decades. But when you talk about beasts in human form or that the Spaniards have a bump in our DNA chain, it is that you, Mr. Torra, are not even original; your words are the echo of others pronounced more than a hundred years ago by ethnicists like Pompeu Gener, who spoke – attention – of the « necrosis produced in Spain by the blood of inferior races. They are echoes of another time, of a dark era in which racist nationalism provoked a true butchery in Europe. And while other countries and ideologies have taken note of the history of the twentieth century and have advanced, part of Catalan nationalism remains installed in the same xenophobic convictions. What, if not, of the words spoken by the father of current Catalan nationalism, of the process and, in addition, of all the economic and moral corruption that has taken place on our land in recent decades, Mr Jordi Pujol? Even in 1976, when the dictatorship was over and shortly before the promulgation of the Constitution and the recovery of the Statute of autonomy, Mr Pujol wrote about the Andalusian man. And he said the following, Mr Pujol – I will read it textually. He said that "it is a man destroyed, a man who has been starving for hundreds of years and who lives in a state of ignorance and cultural, mental and spiritual misery. These are the words of the father of Catalan nationalism. Look, anywhere else in Europe a politician who would have spoken similar words would have been immediately labeled xenophobic and racist. However, here in Catalonia, Mr Pujol has enjoyed, in almost the last forty years, the laurels of father of the country and the dividends of institutionalized corruption. [[Greetings.]] Because, I know, corruption, like xenophobia, also came from ancient times: already Mr Pujol was the first to wrap himself in the flag to cover the accounting holes and corruptions of Banca Catalana more than thirty-five years ago. It was you, the first; in this he was also the precursor of the process, Mr. Jordi Pujol. And between commission and commission, between blackmail and blackmail, Mr Pujol gave him time to devise the nationalist plan of infiltration into society. You, the converging ones, also had the delicacy of leaving everything in writing: the plan was called Programme 2000, and was already in the press in October 1990, just now twenty-nine years ago. It detailed the replacement of Catalan civil society by a parallel society ordered by the nationalists, where it had no place but that dictated by them. To achieve its purpose, the brains of the plan intended to control from the opposition courts for the teaching bodies to the media, so that only the affections to the cause could get their head out in this society designed by pujolist. And the result, then, we already know: indoctrination in the classroom and TV3 turned into a separatist propaganda apparatus. That's the Catalonia that made Pujol, that's the Catalonia that then continued Mas, the Catalonia that inherited Mr Puigdemont and that now has in his hands Mr Torra. Everything you do you learned from Pujol, and you have drunk and breathed it from that cultural and moral environment that they created. And that's how we got here, Mr. Torra. But today it is more necessary than ever to remember something that, honestly, after the events of September 6 and 7, I thought we would never have to remember again, and it is that nationalism is not Catalonia, is that Mr.Tora is not Catalonia, is that Catalonia is the 7_million_and_average of Catalans. And if today we do not act responsibly, if today we are not able to have heights of sight, Torra will continue to act as if that majority of Catalans do not exist. [[Greetings.]] Look, in Citizens we are the first party in Catalonia precisely because we have been able to give voice to all those constitutionalists who said "nationalism is enough in the ballot box. And today we have to say « Mr Toarra is enough in this Parliament. We have been warning you for a long time: nationalism is insatiable, we know it well, we have always denounced it. Because this party was born in 2006 to say exactly what no one dared to say. We have been raising our voice ever since, also in the face of the mistakes of other parties, also in the face of the abandonments of the Spanish governments, which had the Catalans helpless. Since 2006, raising your voice courageously to say that there is no right for a single Spanish citizen to be afraid of feeling as he pleases, to say that there is no right for anyone else in this country to have to shut up because he does not think like you. And I tell you one thing: we've been the only ones too long. Those who do not want a divided Catalonia have the opportunity to work for union and coexistence, with high eyes, with democratic height, with moral firmness. I insist that I know that mistakes have been made in the past, that nationalism does not grow alone, that it needs accomplices that give it oxygen. But this is not going in the past, this is going in the future, and today it is up to us to row together. I ask you today to be the image of the union, to be the image that millions of Catalans are waiting for. We've got plenty of reasons to do that. We have to move on, we have to defeat fear. And, with this motion of censure, today we can put that first stone to build a new Catalonia, a Catalonia without process, a Catalonia free of nationalism, a Catalonia in which no one points to you by the language in which you speak or by how you label your trade. Deputies, think about it. Beyond the acronyms and mistakes of the past, there are millions of Catalans out there waiting for us to do something. I address them all: I know you are tired, but it is not written anywhere that the Catalans have to drag this slab of the process as if it were the rock of Sisyphus. Today we can change it. Look, Mr. Torra, it's not a republic; it's a coup d'état. He is not the most honorable Puigdemont; he is a fugitive from justice. They're not political prisoners; they're supposed to be criminals. It's not the smile revolution; it's explosives. They're not martyrs; they're supposed to be terrorists. Lord Torra, open your eyes: they are not giants; they are mills. [[Greetings.]] And, look, if there is one thing that has become clear in recent times is that we are more Catalans than we want to regain coexistence, we want to regain freedom, we want to regain normalcy, stability, that's why our grandparents and our parents fought so hard. We are more of those who want to keep our passport in order to remain Catalan, Spanish and European. This was already demonstrated in the December 2017 elections, where more than 1_million Catalans went out on the street to tell them en masse that it was already good, that it is enough, that they did not want more nationalism, that they did not want more division on their land. And that's why we beat them in votes and seats. Look, today I pick up the witness from Inés Arrimadas. Inés, I want to take advantage of you here to thank you for showing me the way to me and so many other women. [[Widow's remorse.]] You were the first...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.9.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.10.0	...in winning the elections in Catalonia, and I am today the first woman to be the president of the Generalitat. [[Greetings.]] A president for real Catalonia, a president to rejoin all Catalans, a president to think about the future of her land, a president to fix this Catalonia that you have broken. The time has come to heal the fractures of the last thirty years, the time has come to rejoin all Catalans in a common project within Spain and Europe. We Catalans deserve a new government that respects democratic laws, but above all, that respects all Catalans. A government that cares about the real problems of everyday life, that meets and claims its needs, that improves public services, that bets for young people and protects the elderly, that ensures health coverage and quality education. A government that, instead of being obsessed with dividing us, is obsessed with reuniting all Catalans. I present to you today, from here, our plan to return to coexistence. While you have Catalonia blocked, we will launch it with ten major axes that address the main challenges ahead. And I'm going to explain to you these ten axes that we bring to reboot Catalonia. First axis: we will stop the process to regain the coexistence and dignity of the institutions. Can you imagine a Catalonia where every five_minutes is not talking about the process? Can you imagine a Catalonia with a president who, instead of calling the streets to heat, calls for concord? Can you imagine a Catalonia of all? Well, that's the Catalonia we want in Citizens. And we will work to restore stability and tranquillity to a citizen who is tired of his lies. With us at the head of the Government, of course, the laws will be respected, and, more importantly, all Catalans will be respected. And there will be no people pointed out by their ideas, by the language in which they speak or by how they label their businesses. While with you the money of all Catalans is squandered through the black hole of the process, we will perform an audit to raise carpets and to know how much money you have wasted on your illegalities. It's just that that money has to reverse the Catalans and not you. While you waste money on chiringuitos, as for example the Diplomat... Lords of the Socialist Party who are now here, in the Diplomat. I really don't know if it's embarrassing, but we're going to close these little bars that only serve to speak ill of Spain: if I'm president of the Generalitat, not one euro of Catalans will serve to stain the image of Spain. [[Greetings.]] Look, with you at the head of the Generalitat, the public media are not neutral; we pay all Catalans, but it turns out that they are in the unique and exclusive service of separatism. Well, we are going to guarantee plurality, the independence of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and that they are media based on plurality, neutrality, respect. With us, I tell you that Catalans are going to get back into tuned TV3. [[Greetings.]] But this not only happens with TV3, it is that you have been taking over all public institutions for a long time. For example, you flood, don't you? , the space that belongs to everyone, they suffocated it with their separatist propaganda, huh? , propaganda that is, moreover, in favor of people who gave a blow. Because you think Catalonia is yours, you're obsessed with Catalonia being yours, but it's that, Mr. Torra, Catalonia is all of us, to see if it gets into your head at once. And that is why we are going to ensure the neutrality of public institutions. It's good enough to suffocate us all with your yellow ties – it's good enough, Mr. Torra. It is enough to ignore and despise more than half of the Catalans; it is enough not to respect judicial decisions; it is enough to threaten, day by day also, the rest of Spain. Let's build a different Catalonia. It's okay with so much threat, it's okay with so much calling to warm up the street, so much attack, so much confrontation, huh? A government, moreover, that one day threatens the state and the next day complains that there is no dialogue. Don't you see that this is nonsense? Don't you see this no longer hangs, Mr. Torra? Look, you've been calling for dialogue with the Government of Spain for years, but then, when the time comes to negotiate, you leave the Catalans' empty chair. If I am President, the Government of the Generalitat will return to all the bodies of cooperation of the State with the Autonomous Communities, starting, of course, with the Conference of Autonomous Presidents. [[Greetings.]] And, in addition, we will also lead the reform of autonomous financing; we will be there, we will not leave the Catalan chair empty, as you do in order to then be able to complain. I too, unlike Mr Torra, am committed here today to bringing in budgets, budgets that prioritize what really matters: the problems of Catalans. And speaking of Catalan problems, I begin the second axis, which for us is fundamental: a public, universal and quality health. Sanity has been completely abandoned by the independence governments and you have only remembered it, so to cut its funding and cut the benefits; for that, yes, for everything else not. Look, do you know how health is with you at the head of the government? In the last year, Mr. Torra, in his year as president, the waiting list has grown to 91,000 people. A year ago we were the worst in all of Spain, but it is that, in addition, with you at the head of the Generalitat has grown in 91,000 people. One hundred_seventa_y_fiveco_ thousand Catalans are waiting to operate, also more than in July last year, a 7_per_cent more; more than 480,000 Catalans are waiting for a specialized visit, and 155,000 Catalans are waiting for a test to know what is happening to them – 155,000 Catalans, Mr. Torra. With you, the waiting list increases. But, in addition, territorial inequalities also increase. I explained it to you a long time ago, but it's just that you don't listen, Mr. Torra. We present you here with a law to reduce waiting lists and territorial inequalities, but you, as always – as always – turn your back on Catalans. I'm going to repeat that data to you today. Look, do a mammogram, for example: in Reus, it takes 115 days to be able to do this diagnostic test, but in Valls, which is next door, which is a few kilometers away, instead of 115 days, only 44 wait, Mr. Torra. What if we call those Reus patients and offer them to go to Valls? Has he crossed his mind? Have you read it in our bill, or are you simply stumbling it without even reading it, Mr. Torra? Set yourself, more examples. For example, to do a CT scan, it turns out that if you live in La Seu d'Urgell they do it quickly, in 13_days; now, as you are in Igualada, it takes 69; in the Clinic, 98_days. Ask time for the dermatologist, for example: a patient in Tortosa takes 130_days to be able to visit with the dermatologist; however, in Vic, 16_days. For example, the neurologist: in Girona, in the Trueta, 326_days, Mr. Torra, which is almost a year, which is a scandal, Mr. Torra ; in the Clinic, 59_days; in the Hospital del Mar, 58_days. But you, when we present a law to fix these territorial inequalities, tumban, because you don't want to even listen to the specialists. [[applause]] Nor do they want dialogue: they don't want to talk. With you patients wait and wait, of course, because for you we already know that waiting lists are crumbs; already told us by the spokesman of Junts per Catalunya, that waiting lists, that health, are crumbs. But, look, for us, the well-being of patients is the first thing. That's why I want to announce that my first step as president will be to pass a law to improve waiting lists in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Because you can – you can –, because that law wouldn't cost us a_euro – that law wouldn't cost us a_euro – it only requires political will and we do have it. We are going to put an end to the cuts, the lack of replacement of staff, the care overloads, the lack of ambulances and, of course, the waiting lists. And not like you, who are dedicated to implementing divisive policies, cut-off policies; in that you are the kings, you do it perfectly. In addition, we will also promote a reform of primary care within the health system. It can't be that you call your CAP to ask for time and give it to them within ten days, twelve days, eighteen days, that's not a primary care in condition. We are also going to reform primary care. Look, Citizens is the party of freedom, and we have demonstrated it all these years through our facts, through our policies. And precisely because we are the party of freedom we are also committed to the right of users to choose the hospital, so let it be of their choice. We want a Catalonia of free citizens, also when choosing your hospital. And I do not want, from here, to forget, when we are talking about health care and health care, about rural areas. That is why from Citizens we will guarantee health care at those points far away from the hospitals in more than fifty_kilometres. We want to think of these people who live in the rural world and also of our elders who cannot move to hospitals. In addition, this week also commemorates Mental Health Day. The other day he told me, Mr. Torra – you – that I couldn't talk about mental health, but I'm going to talk about mental health, because that involves Catalans, it affects Catalans, and therefore it affects us too. So we're going to provide primary care with more resources, we're going to increase the number of mental health care centers and we're going to implement specific programs to care for all patients as they deserve. Third axis: for an education that guarantees equal opportunities. Education is a fundamental pillar of society. We need to talk more about education – we need to talk more about education, less about imaginary republics, huh? For nationalist governments, the quality of education, therefore, we already know that it has not been a priority. Over the past few years, we have seen how you used education as one of your main tools within your separatist plan. I promise that those who want to break Spain will not do politics in our children's classrooms. We are going to ensure the neutrality of education so that in Catalan classrooms one can learn to think and not what to think, as you do. Set, with you, every start of the course families have to bear up to three hundred_euros of spending on textbooks; for many it is a great effort, there are others, even, that can't even afford it. We propose a law that guarantees the freeness of textbooks through a loan system that, in addition, serves to make students aware, too, and learn the value of being responsible for things. If we want education to be truly free and all students to study on equal terms, it is essential that textbooks be free, as they are in other autonomous communities. It's just that we're not asking for anything strange or something impossible, no, no, it's that this is already being done in other autonomous communities. Why not with you? Why do you continue to stifle Catalan families? – Why? In Catalonia, with your supposed success model, what you say, it turns out that only if you have money can you study in more than one language. But, of course, since most Catalans cannot pay for these private schools, they have to settle for studying in a single language. Catalonia is behind the learning of English in its educational system, this ‘model of success' – we are behind the line. We have our Catalan students in inferior conditions compared to their colleagues from the rest of Spain, and let's not talk about those from other countries anymore. In addition, in Catalonia something happens that is not happening anywhere else in the world, that is that it is impossible to have Spanish as a vehicle language – it is impossible – when it is the official language and when, moreover, it is the mother tongue of most Catalans. What this is..., it's not that it's just unconstitutional, it's of course also, it's that this is to the detriment of the Catalan students themselves, it's that here, in Catalonia, in order to study in Spanish you have to go to court. Why? If you know, moreover, that this is unconstitutional, if you know, moreover, that the Constitutional Court has already said that the balance between the two languages must be ensured. It is that your model of linguistic immersion is obsolete, it is obsolete, you have to go to the 1980s to justify it, you have to go back to justify it. Well, look, while you're still committed to looking back, we're going to look at future generations. And that's why we're going to implement a trilingual school model, huh? , a quality trilingual school, in which Spanish and Catalan are vehicular languages and of course, also, where English is promoted using it also as a vehicular language. Another of the issues is also very worrying: the barracks. Catalonia is with a lot of difference the autonomous community with more barracks. He started school just a few weeks ago, with about twenty thousand Catalan students studying in barracks because of the inoperation of their governments, because you do absolutely nothing to eliminate these barracks. They have children studying in precarious conditions. Mr. Torra, I told you a few weeks ago too, it's that I even presented you with a study, that you haven't even looked at it, because, of course, as you're not interested in this... But do you know what this study was saying? That with the budget you dedicate to a year of TV3 would be eliminated all the barracks – all of them –, only with the budget of a year of TV3. But, of course, this does not interest you, because you cannot stop feeding the separatist propaganda machine, of course, we already know. Look, we will also present a proposal to put an end to the barracks in the Catalan educational centres, and to speed up and finance the works of the new educational facilities. You also talk a lot, you come out here and you talk about inclusive education, but none of that serves us if we don't have the means, if we don't have the resources. Once again, your waste in the process is to the detriment of those who need it most. We will provide qualified staff to all centers with students diagnosed with autistic spectrum disorder, we will make it easier for students with ASD to stay in the dining room if their families so decide. And we will also provide sign language interpreters throughout school hours to those schools that have deaf pupils. And I want to stop at this point, Mr. Torra. Because, look, I know you know that you have students sitting on your desks who don't understand what's going on around you, deaf students who don't have these sign language interpreters. And I know you know that because I myself was in the meeting with other members of your party listening to these families. I committed myself at that meeting to ending that injustice and again I commit myself here today: sign language interpreters for children who need it. [[Greetings.]] It's good to waste your money on your chiringuitos and your obsession, let's dedicate what really matters, Mr. Torra. Fourth axis: the well-being of all Catalans, our priority. While with you we are beating records that we should never have beaten, we are going to push a pact for the prioritization of social policies in Catalonia. Look, the process has only served one purpose: to make worse the situation of those who were going through the worst. In the worst years after the crisis, when we most needed dialogue, when we most needed consensus, you have prevented it by dedicating all your energies and all our money to your separatist obsession. We've been missing a decade, a decade in social policies thrown away, because of their inaction. You've missed everything: you've missed dialogue, you've missed realism and you've missed even self-criticism – we'll see if you come out here later to do the one. I warned you myself in the last general policy debate: severe poverty, Mr. Torra, has increased in the past year in more than one hundred and a thousand people – since you are here ruling, more than one hundred and a thousand people, severe poverty. The crisis has particularly hit the most disadvantaged sectors, but also the middle working class. Today there are workers who are poor and that is why we want to generalize the compatibility of guaranteed income from citizenship with income from work. One question: have you tried to talk more about dependence and less about independence? – Have they tried it? We will also introduce a law on urgent measures to improve care for dependents. The time has come to put the well-being of Catalans above the stellate. While you make lists of good and bad Catalans, we will end your black lists of dependency. [[Greetings.]] We're going to work, of course, also for the elderly. In Catalonia our seniors wait an average of four years to access a place of residence and their families are desperate, Mr. Torra; one_of_each_three seniors is waiting for their help from dependency, and what is worse: eleven_thousand people died in Catalonia without receiving that help, waiting to receive that help. We will encourage the creation of residences and day centres for older people who cannot use themselves or as a support for those families who cannot provide their elderly with adequate care. In addition, we will also pay attention to our childhood. We're going to push for a law against child abuse and abuse. Thanks to Citizens, moreover, there is a law already being processed in this Parliament so that no child has to suffer abuse or ill-treatment. The difference is that we are not going to leave that forgotten law in a drawer, as you do with yours. With you ruling, one_of_each_four under the age of sixteen is in poverty. We are going to launch an autonomous strategy against child poverty. Of course we will also investigate the DGAIA, because it is a shame how you have turned this body into a corruption nest. We will ask for an audit of the management of the DGAIA to know precisely how we have come to this situation in which the courts are investigating a possible case of corruption of the Republican Left. [[Greetings.]] We will also keep in mind our young people in the design and implementation of public policies. They are our future, but we can hardly talk about the future if we don't talk about opportunities in the present, so we're going to improve access to quality practices and we're going to improve the 100_per_cent of the first job contract. Our government will ensure that all young people have an opportunity to demonstrate their talent. And speaking of young people, we also need to talk about housing. Catalonia is the region with the most evictions in Spain and, in relation to its population, the least public housing has. However, we have seen how you cut the budget for public housing. From Citizens we want to guarantee the right of all Catalans to enjoy decent and adequate housing, and to access basic supplies, so we will develop an autonomous housing plan that consolidates access to housing through affordable rent. We will also pass a law on urgent measures against residential exclusion and also to encourage social rental. I want to talk about disability, too. Look, the Cocarmi, Mr. Torra – and I told you the other day – has accounted for over EUR 23,000 per year in the economic outlay that people with disabilities have to make in order to be able to develop their life plan. From Citizens we believe that the Government has to accompany the most vulnerable people, not stand aside or on the back, as you do. So we are going to pass a law on rights, a law on non-discrimination and a law on the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. We will also, of course, fight to eradicate the macho violence in our society once and for all. Machist violence is one of the clearest manifestations of inequality in our society. As President of the Generalitat, I will take action: we will develop public policies and put in place the necessary and human resources to combat this scourge. We are going to push for an agreement with all the parliamentary forces to combat macho violence, an agreement with measures for victims, also for their families; an agreement that obliges us all to do everything possible, to do everything in our power to put an end to this scourge of macho violence, with awareness campaigns, with means for timely detection and with support for women victims and their children as well. We will also defend the rights and social equality of the LGTBI collective. Spain was one of the first countries in the world to recognize equal marriage and this is one of the many reasons that makes us proud of being Spanish and living in a space of shared rights such as Spain. And while no one can deny that in recent decades a great deal of progress has been made in the recognition of the rights of the LGBTI collective and in the fight against discrimination, there is still a long way to go. [[Greetings.]] According to the Observatory against Homophobia, there has been an increase in crimes against the LGTBI collective in the first seven months of this year, that is, an increase of 40_per_cent, Mr. Torra. Again, the figures get worse with you at the head of the Generalitat. And as we have long denounced – not only us, but also the entities – the LGTBI Law is having a very poor deployment due to the inaction of the government. In fact, last week in this same Parliament the entities came to claim that this law would be deployed once and for all, because you take very little time to deploy banners in favor of the coups, but are unable to deploy laws in favor of the rights of the LGBTI collective. We're gonna do it. [[Greetings.]] We will also work for a plural Catalonia, an integrative Catalonia, where all migrants can feel at home. For thousands of families throughout Catalonia's history has always been a welcoming land, where to build a better future for your children. We want it to be so again, and that is why we will also promote a plan for the reception and integration of migrants, involving all departments of the Generalitat, which will facilitate the reception, installation and social and labour integration of migrants arriving in Catalonia. Five eix: family, reconciliation and equality. We will ensure that any model of a family in Catalonia can develop its life plan in freedom and equal opportunities. As the President of the Generality I will fight because no one is born by subrogated pregnancy remains discriminated against or object to hate speech, and I will guarantee access to the right and social benefits that the Generality's competence remains. [[Greetings.]] We pledge to support all families and protect the rights of children and children to ensure their future. This is why we will also approve an autonomous family support law, adapted to the current reality of our society and adapted, above all, to different family models. We will also advance to the effective equality between women and men and to a true work reconciliation. We are talking about equality, and I am talking to the Members now: how many of us, unlike our fellow Members, are judged, for example, by the stuff we wear, by the comb we wear? How many of us have suffered male insults? - How many of us? How many of us are helped by our appearance and not by our interventions? As the President of the Generality, I will fight against inequality between women and men, working to make this necessary cultural change effective and to educate children and children of the first years in equality. Here, the Generalitat, Mr. Torra, is the only autonomous government of Spain that dedicates zero_euros to the education of zero-three years, the only autonomous community. Moreover, it turns out that the schools in Bressol, therefore, have a very high price that not all families can afford. If one of the members of the pair decides to stop working because they find it more important that they do not pay for the bressol school, do you know who this member of the pair is normally? To the sea, to the woman. This is why we propose the universalization and gratuity of children's homes, starting with an increase of 50_per_cent in available places. And we will also push for a pact for equality to promote my work between women and men, and reconciliation between family and work life. In short, when I am president, I will make sure that we have a government that sets aside legislative changes and necessary reforms so that Catalonia is the best autonomous community to form a family. 6th axis: economy, enterprise, tourism, labour market and universities. Gentlemen of the Government, even if you have forgotten, Catalonia does not start and end the process; Catalonia is a land of opportunities that you have sown with chaos and disgovernment. No period in the democratic history of Catalonia, in the recent democratic history of Catalonia, has been as harmful to the Catalan economy as the successive separatist governments have been. We have experienced an unprecedented flight of businesses into our land, which of course has also affected SMEs, which of course has also affected the self-employed. While his colleagues have earned a lot but a lot of money with the chiringuitos of the process, Catalonia has lost more than five thousand companies over the last few years. We are going to make those who have gone back and many more companies in the future want to start and generate wealth in Catalonia. Therefore, if I am president of the Generalitat, I pledge to launch a shock plan for the return of those companies that have left Catalonia because of separatism, because of the legal insecurity that you believe. I told you the other day, Mr. Torra: when the trial goes through the door, the companies go out the window. You have plunged Catalonia into unbearable legal uncertainty and have passed every time, therefore, taxes to finance your structures d'etat that what you do is make it difficult for companies to want to come to Catalonia, for companies to want to stay in Catalonia. And talking about creating taxes: not only for businesses, who also create them for citizens, for Catalans, for families, for those who are going through the worst. You fry them at taxes. It is not fair for Catalans to be the ones we pay the most in the low IRPF sections, the sections that you control, the sections that are the jurisdiction of the Government. That it is not « Spain robs us, that it is « the Generalitat frigates us to taxes, Mr Aragonès. As long as you fry taxes to the working middle class, we will lower the first IRPF installments to match the taxes that Catalans pay to the average of what the rest of Spanish pay. As president, I would be sure to give them back all the effort they have had to make during this crisis, because it is not fair for Catalans to have to pay for their failure. This Government has not made life easier for Catalans, it has made it impossible. You want to control absolutely everything, you've put your noses even on the labels of the shops to know if you were using Spanish or Catalan. We are going to remove language restrictions on businesses and businesses so that everyone will label them as they wish, Mr. Torra, in the language they wish, in Catalan or in Spanish, Mr. Torra. [[Greetings.]] You have wanted to control absolutely everything so as not to solve absolutely anything. Our model is contrary to what you have: we want to cut red tape, we want to make life easier for businesses. That is why we are also going to commit ourselves and commit ourselves today to removing administrative burdens on citizens, to ensure that SMEs are covered in time to facilitate the establishment of businesses. I don't know if you're aware... how you spend your life traveling to Waterloo, because maybe you don't have it very clear, but do you know how many days it takes the Generalitat to pay the suppliers? Do you know that? More than fifty days. You have debts with entrepreneurs of more than fifty days. This is not normal, Mr Aragonès; it is not normal, Mr Torra. It is enough that Catalans have to suffer every day a government that puts sticks to the wheels of the economy. We're losing opportunities for the future every day. But as you continue to turn your back on the future, we are committed to investing in R & D & I and supporting our researchers to bring our community up to the level of the rest of the European Union. As for tourism, Catalonia has had a historic attraction for visitors from all over the world. Barcelona is an undisputed tourist destination: it is the most visited city in all of Spain and is among the first favorite destinations in Europe because it offers a multitude of attractive places for tourists from all over the world. However, the separatist adventure has been about to throw down one of the main sectors of the Catalan economy, seriously damaging Catalonia's image abroad and associating our community with insecurity and uncertainty. While separatism has played with thousands of jobs in the tourism sector, we will recover the image of Catalonia as a national and international reference destination, we will work to make Catalonia attractive, safe, quiet, enhancing the value of our cultural and natural heritage, and still being a reference destination. Labour market. The separatist obsession has caused the independence governments to give up active employment policies in recent years, or, well, no: active employment policies have made, you, to place your friends in the bars, for that you do make active employment policies; for the Catalans not, to place your friends yes. [[Greetings.]] From Citizens, we propose several lines of action to combat unemployment, precariousness and long-term unemployment. That is why we are going to revolutionize active employment policies and fight against precariousness and labour poverty. We will continue to work to make life easier for the self-employed and improve their social protection. At the state level, thanks to Citizens, the self-employed already have a flat rate for a year, and in Catalonia we also propose that the Generalitat assume one hundred_per_cent of the social security costs of the first worker who hires each self-employed person for six months, because those who generate employment deserve all our help. And I would not like to end this block without referring to one of our priorities, too, which is the policy of universities in Catalonia. First of all, I would like to refer to the serious events that are taking place in public universities in Catalonia, how you have allowed radical separatists to camp wide on university campuses, how you have allowed these radical separatists to harass young people, for example, like those of S'Ha Afinet! , which, from here, I want to give you my support and recognition for your struggle to defend freedom and coexistence in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] I assure you that, with us, universities will cease to be spaces of impunity and will again be centres of freedom, knowledge and growth for our young people and for the entire university community. We will also work to enhance the excellence of the universities of Catalonia and improve their position on the international scene. That is why we are committed to defending the innovation and talent attraction programmes of Catalan universities. Seventh axis: fighting citizen insecurity. Look, our cities, especially Barcelona, have been suffering from an increase in insecurity in their streets that also threatens to break the coexistence in the neighborhoods. What we've been doing in Barcelona for the past year has been 15 murders. Many of these victims were tourists who were on vacation in our country, with the damage, of course, that this entails for the image of Catalonia abroad, I told them before, when we talked about tourism. Not to mention the robberies. There are some citizens who have had to organize themselves on citizen patrols, who are already tired, who are tired of seeing the same people steal over and over in their neighborhoods – the same people, over and over again. Mr. Torra, I don't know if you're aware of all this, I don't know if you know. I went to El Raval to talk to these neighbors, I went to El Raval to see for myself, firsthand, what these neighbors are denouncing. So I also ask you today to go to El Raval, but get out of the official car: go and talk to the neighbors, and see what the neighbors are suffering, and maybe you will stop denying this problem of insecurity. [[Greetings.]] It cannot be that these thefts and crimes committed in the streets of Catalonia go unpunished. It cannot be that we have criminals who already know all of them and who enter through one door of the police station and leave through the other, if it is more difficult to file a complaint than it takes the offender to leave through the other door, Mr. Torra. In the face of the inaction, moreover, of Mrs Colau, who thinks that the question of security - or insecurity - in this case - is a left or right issue, we do not, we are clear that something needs to be done. You are here to manage, but you do not; we do want to manage, so we are going to reach out again to the rest of the forces, in this case to assume the need to strengthen our legislation, and we have already done so at the state level and, of course, we will continue to insist. If Citizens rule, we will strengthen the means of our forces and security forces. We must start, above all, by depoliticizing the leadership of the Mossos d'Esquadra, ensuring that they are not used politically by separatism and that they are at the service of all Catalans, Mr. Torra, eh? On the one hand you purge the Mossos d'Esquadra and on the other you leave. All right, it's good to give political orders to the Mossos d'Esquadra; it's good to put the Mossos d'Esquadra between the sword and the wall, which are the ones who have to protect and defend all Catalans. It is already well, Mr Torra, those who accuse us of using this Parliament when you use even those who have the task of ensuring our defence, of protecting us. It's a shame – it's a shame. You don't have time to expand the templates, but to create yourself a Praetorian guard to defend yourself, for that it has given you time. [[Greetings.]] To defend the Catalans not, to protect oneself, the first thing, the first thing – the first thing. There is also a need for greater collaboration between the Mosses and the State Security Forces and Bodies. Therefore, we are going to ensure that there is greater coordination between the different police forces and avoid overlapping functions that could undermine the security of Catalans. We are also committed to ensuring that the Spanish Government will send more troops from the State Security Forces and Corpses, so that we will increase the troops here in Catalonia as long as this problem of insecurity is alive. But it is also that insecurity is not only due to these thefts and murders that have occurred, unfortunately, in Catalonia and that have increased in recent months, it is that Catalonia is the community where the number of illegal occupations has grown the most, huh? , in many cases illegal occupation is promoted by mafias who have made this practice a real business. Make sure that we, of course, will work to end the illegal occupation, we will do it at the state level, but we will also do it here in Catalonia, collaborating with the Mossos d'Esquadra and ending these mafias so that they cannot profit and to protect all Catalans. To conclude this security bloc, I would also like to express our commitment to greater prevention of radicalisation in order to effectively combat jihadism at its very origin. We will strengthen the protocols with the Mossos d'Esquadra and collaborate with local communities to curb the spread of jihadist propaganda and act in a preventive way to eradicate any focus of radicalization, especially, above all, aimed at the younger population. Look, ultimately, we're going to put solutions where you've done what you've done has been leaving functions, leaving functions that affect families, who go out in fear. We are going to bet on legislation that favours coexistence and not reward crime, we are going to give protection and security where there is fear and where there is insecurity. Block eight: better infrastructure and a more protected environment. The last governments of the Generality have used the policies of territories and infrastructures not to solve the problems of Catalans, such as the delays in Rodalies or the payment of the tolls, but to confront them with the conjunction of the rest of Spain. Under the stellation and the claim of new competitions, the Government has tried to store real nyaps in infrastructures and also in the management of the services: we speak, for example, of Aigües Ter Llobregat; we speak, for example, of Spanair, or we also speak of the fracs of the Segarra-Garrigues irrigation channel, and it mentions besides it the line 9 of the metro, which is the most expensive work of the Generality and the most disastrous management that you have made to the Catalan infrastructures in the last years, which accumulates an unjustifiable cost. In the face of its "the better, the better, we will strive every day to build bridges and to recover infrastructure for all Catalans, because while some – you, you – want to disconnect, we want to be better connected to the joint of Spain, to Europe and to the world. From Catalonia we want to lead the reforms that Spain needs, also infrastructure, so we will prioritize strategic infrastructure according to its need and also according to its socio-economic profitability. We will continue to claim the Mediterranean Corridor as we have always done: as a strategic transport infrastructure for Catalonia, Spain and Europe. We will also make a big leap in mobility, accessibility and environmental sustainability with public transport as a priority. We will assume once and for all and decisively the competencies the Generalitat has in Rodalias, to regain the confidence of Catalans in a means of transport in which every day more than 400,000 trips are made. We will invest in the modernisation of trains so that they are more reliable and accessible to all travellers. We would also demand the progressive completion of the current concessions of toll motorways to match, to match all Spaniards in road transport. On the other hand, and speaking of the environment, we will also boost renewable energies, self-consumption and the circular economy in the face of climate change. We will actively participate in the development of the new state climate change and energy transition law. We will adapt the Catalan law to its provisions and negotiate with the Government of Spain the necessary changes to ensure its constitutionality. We will also give a radical turn to residue management policies to advance towards a true circular economy. We promote measures to reduce waste at source and to complement the recycling measures set by the European Commission. We will also support our agricultural sector and promote its quality, productivity and competitiveness. We will bet on an integral rural development, not just farming or rowing, but also social and economic. We are promoting the rural environment as a policy of culture, tourism, development, innovation and ending the digital divide between the rural world and the urban world so as not to leave behind the roots of our territory. We will provide the Rural Agents of Catalonia with the necessary material and human resources so that they can develop their functions with guarantees and security. We also promote the quality of the fishing sector and the better conditions in which our fishermen work. We will encourage brands of quality products following the example of blue fish and experiences, also from other autonomous communities, and we will age for the working and economic conditions of fishermen and shipowners. New block: a culture and sport for everyone. This government doesn't care about culture. In fact, for the only thing that you use culture is to make it a partisan as well as a part of the process gear. You use cultural heritage and architectural heritage for your separatist obsession. Mirin, I know of Tarragona and how the Tarragona I have seen with shame how the wall of Tarragona, which is UNESCO's world heritage, with deep ties and how you do not do it absolutely re – do not do it absolutely re. Do they really not feel ashamed not to respect the heritage that is all of us? The wall of Tarragona, the bridge of Besalú and all the rest of the Catalan heritage is that it is not its own, it is not of the independenceists, it is of all Catalans and you do not respect it. [[Greetings.]] You use our heritage as if it were the apparator, as if it were the announcement board of separatism, so you serve our heritage. But it's not just that, it's that they also do it with parties: you think that parties are just nationalists. The popular holidays are everyone's, to see if once and for all they stop exclosure and expel millions of Catalans from their holidays. There's enough – there's enough – Mr. Torra. [[Greetings.]] In front of his blinded view of culture... [[Addressing the President of the Generality.]] He's very grateful to them, isn't he? No, you laughed... yeah, yeah. Faced with his vision of culture, we propose that Catalonia become a pole of artistic and cultural attraction. We want Barcelona to return to the cultural prestige that it has held back years and that this is extending to the rest of Catalonia. This is why we offer an international talent attraction platform for artists of all disciplines, theatre directors and museum directors and other cultural equipment. It's funny that the separatists... maybe that's what made him grateful, I have the hope that, Mr. Torra, you later come out here and give your face and don't love yourself behind your counselors and can explain to me what made him so grateful. But it's funny that separatists always talk about themselves as guardians of culture, don't they? You are the guardians of Catalan culture, when, in reality, you treat culture very poorly and your workers too. The cultural sector, the professionals of culture, that of creators, is the most precarious sector. We can show in fact that there is another way of doing things, and I refer to an example that we have, fortunately, in our files: I am talking about my companion Marta Rivera, a great promoter of the Law of Mecenatge, who has obtained the majority support of the sector; Marta Rivera, who, for sure, in the short time she brings to the head of the Council of Culture of the Community of Madrid has done more for culture than the two Councillors we have known in this legislature, which at the moment we do not know them at all. The only merit of having the last two councillors of this legislature is that the two are signatories to the Koiné manifesto. That's what matters to you, culture doesn't – culture doesn't. [[Greetings.]] We're clear on how you sort your advisors and your advisors, Mr. Torra. We, from Ciutadans, are betting on culture and we want everyone to enjoy it and, for this, we are proposing a cultural book, a young cultural book and a two-hundred-euro cultural subscription to those that complement different years, that could be spent on products, activities and cultural services. We also want to encourage that the day of Sant Jordi is declared a cultural heritage of humanity for UNESCO. And we will also develop the video game industry, animation and visual effects for its potential to generate young and highly qualified occupation. For what it does to sport, we also consider the values of sports practice to be of use. So what we do will promote healthy living habits and a cooperative spirit. As I said before, we also believe that these values of sport, these values that the sport brings, and for this reason we, taking into account the habits every time more sedentary of children and young people, with the problems that this entails, which we will establish a third hour of physical education at the schools, as for example is already being implemented in the Community of Madrid. We will also boost the visualization of women's sport until we get full recognition and support from the administrations... that their fellow men. It is vital that the Administration is involved with concrete measures that may discriminate against women in the sport world, increase visibility and increase the participation and interest of the society's joint venture for women's sport. Tenth axis: regeneration, combating corruption and democratic quality. The opinion polls of recent years have always coincided in placing corruption and regeneration as one of the major problems of citizens. According to the 2018 Anti-Fraud Office barometer, 71_per_cent of citizens believe that there is a lot or enough corruption in Catalonia. You, the separatist politicians, invented that of 'Spain robs us while looting the money of all Catalans in full hands. They have tried to cover with a great'steel all corruption: the contracts allocated to fingers, the embargoed seats, the Palau case, 3_per_cent, the trips these on private jet that we pay all Catalans, for which you have taken the'steel. Some have even changed their acronyms so that they are not linked when their leaders paraded through the courts or the police entered their headquarters in search of evidence. The time has come to say: 'Enough! , to build a Catalonia free of corruption; the time has come for public contracts to go to those who can do the best and not to the friends of 3_per_cent – no –, that the contract is public, free, with criteria of regeneration, with criteria of plurality, of transparency. We will fight corruption and we will also protect those complainants who dare to go to the Anti-Fraud Office, who dare to go to a court and who dare to denounce corruption, and not as you do, who harass and point them out. We're going to protect these people and we're going to end the impunity of those who skip the laws. We will also reform the Statute of autonomy in order to abolish the outbursts of the President of the Generalitat, members of the Government and Members of this Parliament. All citizens are equal before the law and we must be treated without any privilege, without any distinction. Or do you want those privileges? And another question: why do they want these privileges? Look, the politicians charged with us will have to leave office. The citizens' government will be, I insist, a guarantee of competition, transparency and good management. We are tired, already, of dawning every day with a new news of the plot of corruption of the Pujol clan. We will strengthen public procurement control to prevent corruption and prevent cases such as 3_per_cent from ever being repeated again. With regard to the civil service, during this time many officials have suffered in the first person what it is to work in an office full of separatist propaganda. In case it were little, you also announced that you would be able to go to work on Constitution Day. What do you want, to keep making lists of good and bad Catalans? What do you want, to continue with the division, to continue to encourage the breakup of coexistence? This is also a pitiful boycott of our parties, it is shameful, another attempt, I insist, to make lists of good and bad Catalans, now also with the officials. Leave the officials alone, let the officials do their job, stop putting them between the sword and the wall. We will ensure that officials work in offices that are not full of separatist propaganda. And above all, we're also going to make sure that the officials charge their extra pay when they play, because with you everything is excuses. They will be protected and respected, and they will take what is due to them, Mr. Puigneró [[applause]] They will. We will also work for an independent administration of justice at the service of the citizens. We already know that you would like to choose the judges, but we, on the contrary, want an independent administration of justice, which is why the members of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia will be elected by the judges and not by you. Yes, do not do so, Mrs Capella, that we already know that you were also one of the proposals precisely to be part of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] This is the justice you want. It has also become clear to us that you want the incarcerated thugs to be imprisoned with pedigree, that is, to have privileges that the rest of the prisoners do not have. We're all equal before the law. I repeat this and say it several times because it has not yet become clear to you; I believe that you still think that you have a card of impunity that places you above the rest of the citizenry, but it is not. So we will also ensure that the General Penitentiary Law is complied with. It's good enough of privileges for your friends, Mrs. Capella – it's good enough, it's good enough – who is ashamed, that we haven't stopped seeing news in the press lately how they're even purging those officials who don't want to pay attention to them in their orders. It's good to put the officials between the sword and the wall. [[Greetings.]] Let us now also talk about the digital coup, because we are convinced that the next coup in Catalonia will be a digital coup. You are creating parallel structures here and now you also intend to create a Catalan DNI. They didn't have enough to steal data from all Catalans for their illegal referendum, which now also intend to steal data for their second coup. But not only that, there are also organizations that we've heard a lot about lately, such as the Cesicat, that Catalan CNI, Catalan CNI, which was a key part of this illegal organization of the October One referendum. But not only that, it is now also, according to news from the last few days, it seems that this body, this Cesicat, this Catalan CNI, could have collaborated with people who may end up convicted of terrorism in Catalonia. I pledge to close the Cesicat [[applause]] I pledge that we will not have to dawn here with this news of collaboration between the government and alleged terrorists. It is a shame, Mr Torra, and that is why we are presenting this motion of censure, precisely why we are presenting this motion of censure. Let's talk about external action, an external action that represents all Catalans. With you the embassies have become an agency for the placement of fugitives from justice, Mr Bosch. I don't know if you think you have an ETT, what you have is a consultancy to work for all Catalans, not for the fugitives of justice, not to look for a weasel and a wedlock, to the fugitives of justice. You have used external action as a tool to make propaganda of the process, to speak ill of Spain, instead of to ensure the strategic interests of our land and for more opportunities. Your action puts you before the mirror because it reveals what you always do: degrade the institutions that are of all. They do so with everything, also abroad, also with those chiringuitos, with those political embassies that are dedicated to talking bad about Spain. Don't tell me not with your head 'cause you know what's going on? That's not what I'm saying, that's not what Citizens say, that's what the Foreign Ministry says, that has a report that confirms that these embassies are separatist propaganda bars that we pay all Catalans. [[Greetings.]] I'm telling you, Catalonia is all of us, and we're going to close those little bars. And I end this block to talk about the electoral law, to talk about an electoral law that guarantees a fair representation of the vote of all Catalans. We will adopt an electoral law that guarantees true proportionality to ensure a fair representation of the votes of all Catalans in our institutions. Please note that these days I was talking to the Socialist Party. I was trying to get Mr.Iceta to react in his abstention – in fact, I don't throw the towel: I hope you will react, change your mind – and Mr.Iceta was talking to me about the famous sum, of "that sum that you don't give," says Mr.Iceta. And we're conscious. The question is, why don't you give that sum? It doesn't matter because all these years, Socialist Party and People's Party, you didn't want to change the electoral law, you didn't want what the citizens voted in the ballot box to look like what we have in this Parliament afterwards. So this sum, Mr.Iceta, does give: we have it on the street, we have it in votes, we have it in all the majority of Catalans who want us to join together today, who want us to go hand in hand today to say to Mr.Torra, "That's enough! , that they want us constitutionalists to be able to park our differences, that we live up to the circumstances and that we start a new Catalonia. So we are also going to push for the amendment of this electoral law so that what citizens vote on the street will then look like the representation we have in this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] MPs, MPs, these are the ten major axes that will guide our government action, a government to regain unity, a government to regain coexistence and that will face with firmness and work the challenges of the future that our land faces. These axes that we have presented to you today are proof that another Catalonia is possible, a Catalonia that is not news for the flight of companies but for the opportunities or for the scientific advances, a Catalonia that is not news for the corruption but for the solidarity with those who have less, a Catalonia that is not news for the conflict but is news for being part of the solution, for being leader in Spain, for being leader in Europe, so that Catalonia stops being part of the problem and is finally part of the solution. Look, the Catalonia in which I was born had everything to be a prosperous land, a plural land, a land open to the world, an economic engine and also a promise of future for many citizens, also for citizens who came from the rest of Spain, as for example my grandparents did, who came here in the hope of a better future for their children. So I ask you today: let no one ever tell us in this Parliament again that this is not our home, let no one ever tell us that there are first-class citizens and second-class citizens. We have everything – everything – to be a prosperous land, a land of opportunity, a land of the future, the only thing we have to recover is freedom. Let us imagine all that we could do without a government obsessed with dividing us, without a government that wasted all our resources on a plan that is not illegal, no, it is also unreal; you know it perfectly well: it is an illegal plan and it is an unreal plan. And today we can achieve it if we are all responsible, as we were two years ago, as we were on September 6 and 7, today we can achieve it if we raise our voice guided by the spirit of October 8. Today is not a day to look at the past or to look for culprits, today is a day to look at the future, to look for solutions, and all it takes is to believe. And I'm convinced that together we can achieve that. [[Greetings.]] Today we can press the restart button. Today, with our vote, we can give back to the Catalans something they should never have taken away: the freedom to feel themselves as they want, the freedom to speak the language they want and the peace of mind to know that they will not have to face anyone by the flag that they feel in their heart, and the certainty, above all, that their representatives will always – always – be at their service. Today I ask you to think about what you want tomorrow to be like. And there are only two options: either to say 'no', to stand on Torra's side and allow him to continue denigrating the majority of Catalans, or to vote 'yes' and to stand on the side of coexistence, democracy and freedom. I am clear, I am clear what I want, and I want Catalans to know that there is a Catalonia beyond Torra, and that for once politicians are not going to be part of the problem, but we are going to be part of the solution. It will not be easy, I will not ask you to park our differences forever – in Catalonia we have already had too many doses of totalitarian thinking – but it will be worth it and we will demonstrate what we are capable of building together. We already know what separatism is capable of. What I ask you today is that today, tomorrow, in a year's time, in ten years' time, we look into our eyes not to remember how bad Torra did it, but to remember the democratic height that we were able to demonstrate. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.11.0	Once the candidate's intervention has been completed, the session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.12.0	Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Ask them to vagrant occupying their escons... [[Pause.]] Well, let's resume the session. In accordance with Rule 152 of the Rules of Procedure, following the intervention of the candidate, one representative of each parliamentary group may speak for 30 minutes for each group; fifteen for the parliamentary subgroups. The proposed candidate, the President of the Generality and the members of the Government can speak as many times as they do in the course of this debate. And, if it is individually answerable to each of the representatives of the groups that have intervened, this right hand to a replica turn of a time equal to the purchased for the answer. And, if it is globally responsive to group representatives, each of them will only have a straight line, at a time equal to the time purchased for the group joint. The vote, finally, after this debate, will be public by cry, according to Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. To intervene, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Ignacio Martín Blanco. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.13.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies, authorities that accompany us and all the public present here today, to the hemisphere. Today is an important day for Catalonia, it's an important day for all of Spain and it's an important day for the city of Catalonia. Today, the Ciutadans Group, the group that I represent in this intervention in Parliament, presents a motion of censure against Mr. Torra; a motion to regain coexistence, freedom and concord in Catalonia, with my companion Lorraine Roldán as a candidate for the presidency of the Generality. Well, Ciutadans is a political party that was born thirty years ago, precisely, to oppose the cultural, political and ideological hegemony of nationalism. A hegemony that at that time was undisputed in all spheres of society and, in particular, in the sphere of public debate. There were parties that without being overtly nationalist accepted a very important part of the speeches of the nationalist parties and seemed to question the nationalist discourse, to question the hardships – most of them you would imagine – that supposedly the Spanish breach of Catalonia was to be less Catalan or that you should not be ashamed. There have been a few years of saying that you felt Catalan and Spanish was one thing, in the public sphere, really complicated, compromised, and for which you could have absolutely abnormal consequences, and I would say, after all, immoral, in a democratic society that is old-fashioned. Citizens were born, as I said, thirty years ago, with the manifesto of a group of Catalan intellectuals, among whom are some of the people who have been instrumental in my life, in my political trajectory and, finally, in my personal singularity. And from here, I want to thank them for that courage, that effort they had to raise the voice of many Catalans against that undisputed hegemony of nationalism. [[Greetings.]] In the autonomous elections of the year 2006, Ciutadans won three escons, three escons that were the result of which he would then come. And from now on, Ciutadans has never stopped growing up in every electoral story that happened in Catalonia. Until the year 2017 we were able to win some elections in Catalonia, when everyone said that it was impossible to defeat nationalism at the polls; when everyone said that all Catalonia was nationalist, that all Catalonia understood the reality in a confrontation with the rest of Spain; that it was not possible to have a project from Catalonia for all Spain, that it was not possible to have a loyal project with the rest of Spain and compromise with the project collection. So we showed that this was not true, that Catalonia is a territory, a community, a society that is mostly compromised with the project of all the Spaniards, and that was very clear with the victory of Ciutadans. I think it was, surely, an alienation of fresh air for many Catalans, who saw that it was possible, if not, to discuss that hegemony of nationalism. Unfortunately, that victory of the 17th, which was very important – I think it would be good not to lose it – was insufficient to get a majority of government in Catalonia to compromise with the Constitution and with loyalty to the Constitution and to the institutions of the Spanish Junta. We, as democrats, had no other option than to respect that result, a result that favors us from the numerical point of view, but that does not allow us, according to the majority required by the Statute of Autonomy, to form a majority of the Government. The only one we could do, as it could not be in any other way, as democrats, was to accept the rules of the game; even so, with an electoral law that is unfair and that clearly harms us. On the electoral law, I will be allowed to make a small point, because I think it is important, taking into account what is addressed here in the Parliament of Catalonia..., which is that it is an electoral law that was made at a time, at the time of the transition and in the later years, in which there was one..., like, a pretension or an idea that Catalan nationalism would be a movement or a project that was loyal to Spain's conjunction. The conditions, the premises because that Electoral Law that favors the territories less populated in perjury of the territories more populated..., was precisely the institutional loyalty. The question is that this electoral Llei, which has harmful effects, which has distorting effects on the joint of Espanya, here in Catalonia the redoubted ones. Why? Because this distortion that generates the corrections that are introduced in the proportionality of our Electoral Law, Catalonia is seen to be aggravation. And even more distorted by the disloyalty with which the nationalist parties have been leading for many years, but especially since the last seven years. Therefore, this general distortion of the Electoral Law, here in Catalonia, is even more worrying and even more damaging to the interests of the parties that they achieve – like ours – a spectacular result like that of the year 17. I said that today is an important day for Catalonia, and I still have more, after hearing the intervention of Councilwoman Budo, in which I gave to my companion, Mrs Roldán, and to the conjunction of my parliamentary group, that it was a little less than a fraud, the fact of presenting this motion of censure; a little less than a..., I almost said that we had no right. Dear, I believe that, precisely, I use an instrument that is what the State of Autonomy envisages for these situations, for situations in which the Government demonstrates that it is weakened, when it shows on the street, and even at the same time at the polls... All these things tell us..., that of the CEO, the last of the CEO, and that of the Gesop to the Journal of Catalonia said that 56,7_percent of Catalans disapprove of the management of Mr. Torra ; and all this, a date that is curious, that is that even 44,2_percent of independent voters, disapprove of Mr. Torra. Therefore, Mr. Torra, you really get those magical majorities that you so much like to say, of the eighty percent, that everything justifies it. You do have a eighty_per_cent or a ninety_per_cent of Catalonia's citizens – ready to adopt its logic – against its management. And, therefore, what we do here, with this motion of censure, is precisely to bring to Parliament the feeling of a fundamental part of Catalan society. What we do – and I want to paraphrase here, my admirer Adolfo Suárez – is to raise the political category of ‘normal' to what is simply normal on the street. In the street, the citizens of Catalonia see with great concern the radical drift, the drift of banalization of the violence of the current government. And that, we can see any one of us with conversations with people who are constitutionalist, who are independentist, or who, in any case, are not particularly interested in politics. But the concern between Catalonia's citizens over the events that took place the past few weeks, I think it is undeniable, it is absolutely undeniable. This is why I want to address, and with an absolute effort, as also in the case of the Government, but especially in the case of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, because I doubt very much, Mr. Iceta, Mr. Granados, Mr. Pedret, that your voters, the voters of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, see with good eyes the possibility that you will abstain today, or do not vote in favour of this motion of censure. I believe that, with this, both your voters and ours – it is more, I believe that the vast majority of the voters of the political forces of this Parliament – reject the banalization of the violence that took place here two weeks ago. The one you saw in this Parliament... [[Greetings.]] What we saw in this Parliament two weeks ago was something that, for any Member and for any citizen of Catalonia, had to be a more sad situation. I, if not, as a deputy who was at the bench of my group and, in any case, as a citizen of Catalonia, felt authentic sad, authentic sad seeing, even all the president of the Generality, applauding and crying "freedom, freedom, for some people accused of alleged terrorism. I will not make a judgment of intent here, nor, of course, violate anyone's presumption of innocence. What I do know is that it is not normal, in a democratic parliament, for an autonomous community of a democratic state of law, such as Spain, that the president of that community and, therefore, the most representative of that state in this community – that you, Mr. Torra, are the most representative of Spain, of the Spanish State, of Catalonia – you applaud and cry freedom, freedom for some people you have predicted... – according to what we have been able to know and according to what the judgment of the National Audience says, because otherwise, you would not be in pre-trial detention – they had thought, presumably, attempting against Catalan interests, material or human interests of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Well, what I was commenting on is that, precisely, feeling the intervention of Mrs Roldán and Mr Carrizosa, I think that, in fact, what we are doing with this young man is normalizing something that is in the street, something that is quite widespread opinion, I do not say that I share the conjunction of Catalonia, but that I do say to him, Mr Torra, that it is very symptomatic of the number of people who voted independent parties who see with genuine shame, with genuine concern that the fact that justifies the presentation of this motion of censure. That's why we insist a lot on this idea, we insist a lot on the parties that can support this young man, who are the popular party and the socialist party. The People's Party has already announced that it will actually join, and, in turn, the Socialist Party shows a resistance that I don't understand. Among us, lords of the Socialist Party, there are differences, there are important differences, sense of doubt, and program differences, differences as we conceive of Spain, as we conceive of Catalonia, all legitimate. I'm not here right now to remember things that my group and my personal as a city of Catalonia have hurt me these years about their management, both in front of the government and when they've been fighting. You are sure that you also have the right to do us, and I will let you do the rest – I will not do it now, let's say, your intervention – but I am saying that I am not here or accusing you of leading a demonstration against the Constitutional Court after the judgment of the year 2010, I am not here to tell you that you were precisely the ones who pushed an absolutely difficult state to fit between the constitutional framework, and did, moreover, know it – "knowingly, that is said in the castle – because you had an opinion from the Consulting Council, the present Council of Guarantees Statutes, which told you that everything after the Constitutional Court was said to be unconstitutional, there was unconstitutional. You knew positively that what they were doing was generating a climate of opinion, of confrontation between Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards. In any case, the toilets can be multi-directional, and I'm not convinced, I'm convinced that you also have toilets to do to us, and some of them are certainly accessible. Now, what I don't understand is that in the current context, after we have seen a government and parliamentary groups that banalize violence by applauding alleged terrorists, you don't say we park our differences and vote in favour of a motion of censure that is for coexistence, for harmony and freedom. [[Greetings.]] Before commenting, Mrs. Budó, the question of the motion of censure as the statutory tool to address this mena of situations. Well, I'll explain one thing; I'll explain it with all modesty, huh? I don't try, I don't intend to be superior in any way to you, but I do say that this is the only tool we have to show a social unrest, a social concern that is quite growing, a situation that seems untenable to us. We come to Parliament accepting democratic laws, accepting the Statute of Autonomy, accepting the Constitution and doing so that the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy mainly allow us. Even as you accused us, you would have kept us from spending too much money to have an extraordinary ple. I really do seem questionable, and we can talk about the cost of this extraordinary plethora; now, of extraordinary plethoras in this Parliament there have been some, some, surely, much less justified than this, and no one has spoken of the expense. But it is very curious that precisely those who have completed a process, such as the different illegal references of 9 November and of the U d'Octubre, with a huge expenditure of money, with millions of euros dedicated to an action declared unconstitutional for the Constitutional Court, that you did not have legal employment, nor statutory, nor constitutional, nor by way of legal way, and that you also knew positively that you did not have legal effects, that you could not have practical legal effects, that you drew from that initiative, at the expense, not only the skilfulness of the coexistence that you assumed to Catalonia, but the enormous expenditure, inherent in public money from all the Catalans who generated those two results, that you referred to us, but rather to the enormous amount of money that you could have from all the Catalans that you had. I believe that when we are talking about respect for the democratic state, respect for the Constitution, respect for the state of autonomy and the distribution of competences, it is essential to remind it of one thing: we, what we cannot do here is to do something other than a motion of censure. Clearly, if we as opposed, Mrs. Roldán, in this case, the president of the group, Mr. Carrizosa, now I don't know exactly what the way would be, but perhaps he could come, following his anti-legal logic, if he could come to make a reference on the continuity of Mr. Torra, summon a reference on the continuity of Mr. Torra. I am convinced that this reference to the donation, in the field of Catalan society, of a huge democratic mandate that would require Mr. Torra to abandon his sco. It would be, Mr. Torra, the will of the people, the democratic mandate that we cannot flee. But no, Mr. Torra. Modern democratic societies are rule and rule through constitutions, states, laws, that they do precisely limit the total excesses of the rulers, and therefore we have neither competence nor ability nor will to crack down on the existing laws, and we will not do what you have done with our Constitution and with our Statute and with our Constitutional Court. In any case, respect for laws, respect for the Statute of Autonomy, respect for the Constitution and respect for what the Constitutional Court says is the basis of coexistence in a democratic state of law. You, exactly, what you're putting in danger is this. This is also something that is very important, which is Catalonia's self-government. Catalonia is an autonomous community like the rest of the Spanish, but with some particular specificities also in the area of civil law, and with some skills that do not have other communities, which has a self-government comparable to that of the most decentralized superstates in Europe and the world. That's what I think the whole academy recognizes. We can talk after if you have more skills than Canadian provinces, less skills than British regions... Anyway, it's a very interesting academic debate, but what is unquestionably the whole international academy recognizes is that Spain is a very decentralized state. It's a very decentralized state, and it also recognizes the majority, the vast majority of the academy... I feel here some scattered criticisms, but the truth is that I'm saying things that the academy would credit with much ease. I think from this point of view, what we can't do is start with assumptions that are bluntly false. During these years, that separatism has tried in Catalonia, and especially in the year of Mr. Torra to the Government, it has been generating an environment, a climate of untenable confrontation with the rest of Spain, generating a division in the yes of the Catalan society that has led us to a limit situation that requires height of sight, that requires a responsibility of state on the part of all present in this chamber, especially the Party of Socialists, a party of state, a party that must have the logical responsibility to accept that what is not to be assumed by the banalization of the violence, the banalization of the evil that has been done by the separatist parties, that, insisting on it, I believe, in democracy, around us democracy, in other parts of the European region or elsewhere. I had not seen anything like moral and institutional degradation, like what we saw here in the Catalonian Parliament with the applause of the separatist bench to terrorists, or alleged terrorists, detained for civilian custody. I think that, if not, requires or imposes a reflection between the sides of the separatist parties. It is a thing of democratic salvation, of democratic quality. You, Mr. Torra, in account of condemning any rape and asking for prudence and respect for judicial decisions – it is true that it would not be very consistent with your trajectory, for once you could ask for this concession–, you could have marked disagreements with these people. There was no need not to mark differences, to link their fate to a group of violent suspects, a group of you know where these people are. It's that they complain a lot about the connection of separatism or the excessive criminalization of separatism. I am here to say with complete naturality that, effectively, separatism is not violent, most separatism is not violent. What is absolutely aberrant, absolutely anomalous, is that parties representing separatism in the Parliament of Catalonia banalitzin violence. This bothers many separatist voters. [[Greetings.]] There are more things, obviously, that justify the presentation of this young man. Some have criticized us about the moment, about the situation. I believe that the moment, beyond which each one can make his interpretations of the opportunity to present it, etc., the moment is perfectly justified for the episode of this banalization of the violence that we are talking about. But in any case, if they do not want to take up this argument or do not want to accept it, the owner also has some of the arguments that my partner Lorraine Roldán has made clear to his intervention this morning. Catalonia is the autonomous community of Spain with the longest waiting lists in sanitation. Longer, longer than all of Spain. Ever since I was a deputy I've seen my company, the health spokesman, Mr. Jorge Soler, remember, once and for all, the demands of the health workers, who speak, for example, of return visits of thirty, forty or fifty visits to the return. It seems to me to be an absolutely infamous situation, a situation that is unsustainable and that generates a lot of discomfort among health professionals. I think it's a situation that needs to be over right away. For what she does to primary care, Mrs. Roldán said this morning, Catalans must expect, in many cases, a week or days to have a primary care visit, which is a long way from what would be a reasonable forty-eight hour compromise, which would be, let us say, a prudent time to have a primary care visit. This is not to talk about waiting lists in diagnostic tests and unacceptable territorial differences from which my company Lorraine Roldán also spoke. Yeah, I know they'll tell me it's all Madrid's fault, Madrid's stealing from us, Madrid's helping us with our money. This argument, of course, I take advantage of to say one thing: it is an argument which is exactly the same as that which serves the North League, which served the North League before being racist with the rest of the world, when it was racist with the southern Italians. That, the radicals... [[Greetings.]] The radicals already have it. Let us not forget that one day we see some politician with racist or xenophobic speeches with the Andalusians or extremists, as we felt today, who remembered my companion Lorraine Roldán about Mr. Pujol, saying things about the skinny or about any other race in the rest of the world. I really liked the fact that you're here today, honestly, and I'm not just saying that because we've normalized something that's in the street, that you don't want to see, and I understand, that you don't want to see it, because they don't like it: Catalonia is much more than nationalism. Catalonia is a complex, plural, diverse society. Many people in Catalonia are absolutely up to the peak of nationalism, they are up to the peak of '-isms, they are up to the peak of confrontation, of this situation of constant kindness, and what they want precisely is coexistence, what they want is concord, what they want freedom, what they want is to speak the language that they want; what they want to do, simply, is to live freely, as in any other democratic society. Catalonia is a community in which he lives very well. Catalans have many things in common, independents and non-independents have many things in common. The situation in Catalonia is much easier to resolve if maximalist positions are abandoned. What I think we need to do is to look for compromise solutions, we need to try to measure our possibilities, make sure that things don't get out of hand, and take very much into account the rules of the game that we have given each other. This dialog, this margin of negotiation must always be between the legality mark. What we can't do is, when we don't like a law, jump at it and say that this is dumb paper. On the contrary, we must continue to persevere in the dialogue and mutual respect between Catalans and between Catalans and the rest of the Spanish. Because, as Gaziel said, our esteemed Agustí Calvet, Gaziel, said that separatism is absolutely..., he could not achieve anything for himself alone, that what he needed precisely was to come into contact with the forces of the rest of Spain to achieve his objectives. Gaziel said the only thing that separatism could achieve if it is just an episodic catastrophe, and that's what you're in, in the seventh episodic catastrophe of nationalism or separatism in Catalonia. I think that remembering this reality, that it is the fact that the relevance to the conjunct of Spain has been very good to the citizen of Catalonia, that it has been very good to us as to the community, it has been very good to us as to the region, it is an absolutely fundamental thing to insist on some aspects, let us say, of our sentimental coexistence. I remember, a few years ago, talking to a Madridn businessman who is in Catalonia every year and who has a lot of respect for Catalan society. He told me that there was no right that someone tried to steal a part of his sentimental patrimony, his affective patrimony. Catalonia is part of the heritage of the rest of Spain, and no one has the right to tell them that it is not part of their country. [[Greetings.]] But to the mutual, my professor of political science, Mr. Josep Bacqués, told me a few years ago, with a very funny comment, that surprised me, he said when, scattered for the radicalization of Convergence and the beginning of the process, he said to me: « That I am not robin Madrid. I want to go to Madrid, I said, "and feel like my country. Nationalism has no right to steal from me Madrid, nor to steal from me Sevilla, nor to steal from me Cadis, nor to steal from me Santiago de Compostela. [[Greetings.]] The situation in Catalonia, indeed, is complicated. We have, as I said, Spain's longest waiting lists, Spain's longest waiting lists, Spain's longest waiting lists, too, we are the autonomous community in which there are more students, there are more students studying in barracks, the infra-financing of the university system, as my company Jorge Soler recalls, is chronic, and this greatly harms the human capital of our society, greatly harms our capacity to develop as a modern and competitive society on an international scale. Another thing that greatly harms our ability to compete on an international scale is the question of locking in linguistic questions. I, in fact, am not tired of always feeling the motii for which, according to separatism, was born Citizens. I tell them that the person who made me most esteem, appreciate more, cultivate more and have more interest in Catalan culture is a founder of Ciutadans who is said to be Ferran Touain. Therefore, I doubt very much that his theses on the origin of Ciutadans certainly follow. It is demagogic, pure demagogic, trying to say that Ciutadans is a party that does not affect the Catalan language, when among many of us the deputies of Ciutadans speak Catalan with our children, with our families, among us, the same Albert Rivera speaks Catalan with his daughter. But what did you think to try to stay, get the Catalan language? [[Greetings.]] We won't allow... we won't give the Catalan language to the nationalists. The Catalan language went much further than the nationalist visit. There are authors in Catalan language who have not had any involvement in the nationalist movement and that many times are forgotten. We are precisely in favour of extending the knowledge of the great authors in Catalan language – by Gaziel, by Pla, by Carles Riba, by Joan Vinyoli, by Salvador Espriu... – at the conjunct of Espanya, this is our idea, our idea of an inclusive culture, of an inclusive Catalanity. Gaziel said another thing, that is that catalanity has the virtue of expanding a concept that Catalanism itself does the only thing that does it more narrowly, we have to get that catalanity to be something felt by the city of Catalonia and not incompatible with Spain. My way of being Catalan is to be Spanish and vice versa, my way of being Spanish is to be Catalan, so I don't understand any other way of living with my fellow citizens in Catalonia and the rest of Spain. You should understand that the society that you say you want to liberate..., what you are doing with your "connononic" ideas, what you are doing precisely is punishing society and putting it under a tension that is already unsustainable. That is why we consider the motion of censure to be an empire. You, Mr. Torra, have definitely longed for the common good of Catalans, the common good of which the classics spoke. The classics tell us that the worst of corruption was when a ruler went along with the common good and what he did was to confront his citizens with each other, and he still said it was worse than the thief's corruption. It is true that these virtues adorn some of their pros, such as Mr Pujol, in the same measure: they are thieves and more divide their citizenship. But, anyway, I'm talking to you, you're walking away from the common good of the citizens of Catalonia, and not just this government doesn't rule, but it also rules. And the fact that you are ruling Catalonia forces us to present a motion of censure by categorical empire, by moral empire. And that's why... that's precisely why I went back to insisting on the need to try, as far as possible, to combine efforts between the constitutionalist parties that we defended democracy here– and I was not like a Member, but I saw it as a citizen from home–, that they defended my companies here and the companies of the PSC, of the People's Party, of the commons, that they defended here precisely liberal democracy, that does not allow the tyranny of the majority, that does not allow a parliamentary majority that is not a social majority to teach themselves in the Parliament of Catalonia and act in a totally different way without the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia. Actually, Mr. Torra, I believe that your government is absolutely exhausted, your process is absolutely exhausted, it can try to widen the agony, it can try to keep the tension going, it can continue to tell the CDR that it is pressing, opening or doing what it considers appropriate, now, this will only generate more confrontation, it will only generate more violence and I am convinced that it will not solve any problem of the citizens of Catalonia. I think we've told you a few problems that are actually real as life itself; it's real Catalonia, actually, of which you often get 'nríuen, of this concept that we today. The Lady Budo said that the great problem that we Catalans have is the fit between Catalonia and the rest of Spain. No, man, let's look at the inquests, the CEO, all the inquests that are made in Catalonia, and no matter what they say, the main concern of Catalans is precisely Catalonia's connection between Spain. No, it's more of a worry. I am not saying that there is no need to talk about reforms; we are talking about many things, but I am talking about you, for example, at multilateral forums such as the Interterritorial Health Council, such as the Tax and Finance Policy Council, where the funding that also affects the citizens of Catalonia is addressed. Why leave the cadira of the empty Catalans for their identity obsession? Why do they leave behind their functions as rulers of Catalonia? Well, I'd like to finish this intervention, which I've tried to make as clear as possible and as respectful as possible, with a phrase from my admired Josep Pla, because I stayed for posterity, because I think it's something that Mr. Pla had very clear. When Mr. Joaquin Soler Serrano asked you in one of the most important interviews to the programme "What is Catalan? Mr. Josep Pla answered with his accent so characteristic of Empordà – that I will not now imitate, because still someone will accuse me of being critical with the people of Empordà, whom I very much cherish – he said that a català..., "the catalan is a man, he is a being..., the catalan is a being that has been a lifetime a hundred_per_scient Spanish, and now they have told him that it has to be something else. That's what you're doing, telling us we have to be something else, but we'll never stop being Catalan, Spanish and European. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.14.0	Thank you. He then has the word on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Forwarding, deputy Mr Miquel Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.15.0	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam candidate, I will not refer to the interventions of Mr Carrizosa and Mr Martín, not because they have not been valuable, but because it seems to me that at the middle of the hour I have to focus on the candidate. But, if I may say so, I wanted to start with a little formal part, but at some points in his speech it seemed to me that more than a motion of censure against the President of the Generalitat, he presented it against a Member who wants to become President of the Generalitat, who I am. [[Greetings.]] But, finally, that's why Parliament is talking. You've filed a motion of censure knowing that you were convicted to the fracá, in fact, and you didn't even set out to survey the rest of the cambra's groups before you introduced her. You knew very well that you didn't have a chance to win, despite that, you decided to introduce her and you have to do it. I remember talking to her predecessor – today at the rostrum and to whom I would like to greet – when she – she did – polled the rest of the groups in the chamber, because she was setting up the presentation of a motion of censure. And she repeated constantly in public: "Numbers don't give. If I present a motion of censure, I give you a victory. I, in effect..., « the numbers do not give and if I present a motion of censure I give them a victory. Deia : "To present a motion of censure that is lost in advance would only strengthen independence. And yes, presenting a motion of censure that is lost in advance would only strengthen independence. Even when the PP insisted, he said, "It's a trap. I think so too. And he finally decided, but after talking to the rest of the chamber groups, he didn't introduce her. And I think he made it right, he was right, we were convinced. You tell us now and you have all the right to say no, it's that now the situation is much worse, they have changed the circumstances and, therefore, I change my layout. There's all the right. There are elements, many, and then I will talk about the capture of President Torra and his government that provide arguments for filing a motion. Even you mention reasons supposedly contained in a police and judicial action, which is subject to the secrecy of the summary. I don't know the summary, and about the secrecy of judicial and police actions; when we know them we'll talk, I'm sure we'll talk about them. But I do want to take advantage of it, and you give it little and I thank it, to condemn all the violence, the protagonist, whoever is the victim, the violence that is produced and also the one that someone can prepare. And I criticize those who do not condemn it, minimize it or can, or that it is unintentionally, justify it or take it. But what hasn't changed since last year is that the numbers don't give. And you're not just going to be able to join independence, but you're going to be able to get the Catalonian Group to join the movement. Therefore, a round deal, you have had many minutes of screen, but President Tora will get a parliamentary victory. Nor have I heard him very well right arguments to convince us, even a concrete criticism that he has made to us, corresponding to the electoral law, does not hang by place, because while our group has recorded in the chamber a proposal of articulated law that formulates our proposal of the electoral law, Ciutadans has never done so. [[Greetings.]] In fact, our group shares political and parliamentary adventure with Ciutadans for Change, who promoted a popular legislative initiative to be able to provide Catalonia with electoral law, given that it is the only autonomous community that does not have it, with its own law. It must also be remembered that in order to have the electoral law it is necessary to have the minimum consent of two thirds of the chamber, therefore, it is not easy, there is not a president of the Generalitat who can say: "I will have a law approved. No, it's not a president's, it's not a government's, it's not a majority of seventy-ones either, but we need two thirds. Some propagandist efforts of his youth, of his group and also of the People's Party, have come to say that today we choose between Torra and freedom, between Torra and coexistence, also seemed to me, between Torra and concordia. Look, it's not true, it's not true. It's a mistake to think that they're only democrats who defend... or that they're just defending coexistence, or that they're just defending sympathy for those who think like you. I'm sorry, it's a total plantation, I have to tell you too. There is a coincidence sometimes between you and the independenceists, because they agree with a few things, well, only one: the PSC is all, you are and equidistant. [[Let's give the rialles a round of applause.]] Some of them love to make lists of good and bad, to donate books of good català or good Spanish, of good constitutionalist, of good defender of freedom, of good defender of coexistence and concord. And we're sick of lists of good and bad, we're sick of any kind of checkup, any kind of intolerance. You and the independents often agree in the same attitude, that of the one who is convinced to be on the right side of the story and to believe that he is only on the right side of the story that he or she thinks of as he or she. So that's not true. Today you, Mrs Roldán, legitimately – I say again, it seems to me that it is the third time – propose to replace President Torra for yourself, because in our institutional system the motion of censure has a built character, and you know that it does not count with enough support to win. Votes in favour of the young man? Yours and the PP's, forty. Votes against the young man? The majority of the independenceists and the commons, seventy-six. Nor would our votes add up to victory. Our group – and we have already announced it – will abstain. We will abstain because we do not want to add to a failed political operation before we begin and we do not want to contribute to a legitimate propaganda operation of your group, which is set up for these adversaries – the latter today to The Reason. [[Rialles.]] We are not voting against it, we are not voting against it, because there is reason to censor President Torra, to which I shall refer later. In short, we could say that President Torra's continuity in front of the government is a difficult problem. Two, which cannot be replaced through a motion of censure in which the numbers do not give. And three, that we sincerely believe that you, that you are not the alternative. It is your complaint that the electoral victory of 21 December 2017 is not recognised. They're right, I think our group doesn't, but I think they're right. But there's one thing that's harder, it's that you're the same people who often forget that you won the election. What did they do with that victory? We have, yes, had some elements of rift in the parliamentary debate, the display of photos and posters, and very little more; and today, a young man sentenced to weakness. It's a very poor scale. Still, I'd like to thank you for not including any photos or posters of the debate you've made today. Everything we've won. [[Greetings and remorse.]] And it's true, you won the election, you won the title well deserved from the opposition. Certainly the head of the opposition then decided to move to Spanish politics, but you won the elections. Perhaps they think that today at these heights, presenting this young man condemned to weakness, show strength. But the truth is that this probably has much more to do with the proximity of some general elections and their apparently better electoral expectations than with other issues related to Catalan politics. That's right, they took advantage of it to criticise that we didn't cost them, as if that was an obligation. And it's that we, censor President Torra, disagree with his motion of censure, among other things because she's sentenced to failure, I repeat, before she starts. You have said some things that we share from the point of view of a basic dimension of the motions of censure, which is the part of the alternative, what would you do if you joined the presidency of the Generality. But there's one thing, one of the problems we have between the hands of which we haven't heard him talk very well. In his speech there were commitments in the field of social policies, of better public services... Many commitments of these we share. We have not spoken and voted in many parliamentary debates. Certainly, many of these would require an increase in tax receipts – and we'll talk about it some other day. But on the other hand, we didn't know how to find anything that went to solve what we consider a very high political fact, and it is that there are more than 2 million Catalans who have voted for parties that defend independence. Many of these Catalans probably vote this way because they are convinced that there is no other alternative to the present state of affairs. And you seem to say to them: "Say you were wrong, give us the reason and everything will be all right. How beautiful a Catalonia would be if we did not talk about the process! Deleted Magic! They don't want to talk to each other, so don't talk to each other. That would be a unicorn with the bow of Saint Martian. We cannot stop talking about a problem that exists, and who wants to acquire the condition of President of the Generality something will have to tell them not to think like him or like her, to the other half of the country. [[Some applause.]] It is true that they depend on how I would feel to be able to do so and still appreciate that today they did not talk to us about 155 permanent as a solution to the problem of Catalonia; perhaps in this they are also spinning vertiginously: from "Sanchez's band to "Sanchez", I also support you, from 155 permanent to "now I don't remember". You know, of all kinds, that we consider the permanent application of 155 to be unconstitutional. 155 is designed for an exceptional situation and for a temporary application. That's what the Constitutional Court said. And, therefore, what would we like? You can say it'll never apply again. Sadly, we can't do this, because there is still someone to bet on the confrontation – President Torra –, yet he hasn't given up on illegality, unilaterality, and so this prevents us from ruling it out. Now, I also want to say that he will be responsible for the application of article 155, which consciously decides to violate the law; not who applies it by constitutional mandate. And certainly, and taking advantage of the fact that there is some controversy, I would like to remind you that the unilateral way has only the support of the 9,1_per_cent of Catalans, if we have to deal with the study of the Center of Opinion Studies of the Generality. Now, in any case, the application of 155 – and I think we should agree on this – cannot be capricious, arbitrary or even less permanent. And this has seemed for a long time, although not today, to be the only reception that you offer. Look, we are and be strong in the defence of legality, which is the only guarantee of democracy and coexistence, but we do not forget the natural political eminence of the problem that we have between hands and the need to push the dialogue between Catalans to find solutions. And we will always defend the path of the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact as a way of resolving the problem, through the reforms that are still necessary, which, logically, must respect the procedures and the majorities that the respective laws assign to them. So, why don't we censor President Tora? From our point of view, very many. Possibility of her being forced to fill her up? Not one of them. Trust in your ability as an alternative, Mrs. Roldán? Captain. That's why we're abstaining. But at all events, I would not like to let this debate pass without pointing out the reasons for us to censor President Torra. Well, it has been censored by many ways: it has been censored by the Catalan public opinion, which suspect its management, and it values it very much under the heads of its predecessors; it censors its own governing partners, which are already proposing to do another; many of its censors when they do not support their positions or when they criticize them openly. In fact, I believe that he is censored when he poses the vicar or delegate character of his presidency, when he says that he is subordinate to a self-named "Council of the Republic" or when he himself, without beginning, in a gesture, I believe, of honesty and sincerity that, lastly, when he emphatically says: "I am not president to manage an autonomy. You're right. Now it turns out that he is the president of an autonomous community, according to which he establishes the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy. And there can be no other thing at least until there are the reforms that are the case. Our group has made serious criticisms of President Torra, we did so a long time ago: we held the general political debate and many of the things that we are saying today are repetitions of those. Why? Home, we think you only have your head or your political thinking – and I say it with all respect – but we think you only see my country. His proposal of confrontation, of unilaterality, as the goddess, does not have a support or much less majority among Catalans. His bet on confrontation led him to encourage the most radical sectors, perilously, because he told them to "press, press, do well to press. He called for radicalization of those who were already more radical. I believe that in this he has forgotten his institutional responsibility and has lost the majority of Catalans that we are not in the way of confrontation. Probably all this explains why 55.8_percent of Catalans disapprove of the government's management and explains why the president's appreciation is so low, lower than mine. The lowest of any president at these terms of office. And that's why we're convinced – and we've said it on other occasions –, very honorable President of the Generality, that the best you can do at these times in our country is to take a step side by side and call elections. Let's say that, but we recognize that this is a decision that only you correspond to, and I made myself clear. Our criticisms of the government are as much or more blunt than yours, Mrs Roldán, yes, we formulate them in another way. We believe that with the government that we have the productive economy not enough momentum, that social inequalities and territorial imbalances are increasing, that climate change is not being addressed, that public services are being damaged. I will quote very quickly a reguitzell of our main critics. In education, we agree with you, it is not acceptable not to have a euro of financing for municipal schools. Secondly, we believe that we are talking a lot about inclusive school, but in change, inclusive school does not support enough; we are waiting for the decree of the food service. The pre-registration has replenished the absence of planning enough public places of proximity and has caused many families to see not attending their petitions. We believe – as we said in the debate a few days ago – that there is insufficient effort for the English domain, that there has been saturation at the institutes for lack of public places at ESO and that vocational training needs a new impetus. In childhood, there is a lack of law enforcement. For the management of minor strangers not accompanied does not seem to us to be effective, counselor. There is a debt to the social entities that run the assembly centres and their situation is very difficult, as the counselor knows. In health, that we have a splendid system of salvation, and I will never tire of saying it, especially because I have not been recently users, but, indeed, there is no effort provided to reduce the waiting lists. The guaranteed income, his management is failing. The big people and the dependency, the government has committed itself to presenting a preliminary draft of the law and has not yet done so. The great people must be able to access a place of residence near their home. And, therefore, we need to increase the number of places and services linked to residence. We also need to ensure good attention to the people who live there. There are some residences where food and attention are not just right, and medical and health services are not the right ones. And Catalonia, indeed, you have said, leads the list at the level of all of Spain, of people who have a right to a dependency benefit. The government has also failed, from our point of view, to support public employees: doctors, nurses, bombers, movers and masters are at the limit. There is a lack of personnel, salaries are low, there is no maintenance in the installations, in the vehicles and in the professional uniforms, and so they and they are making an effort, a magnificent overeffort to maintain the quality of the service they provide. In habitation, there was talk of a shoal to increase the public park of habitation and one year later we do not know yet. In taxation, certainly, there were no assumptions, so we don't know what the government's commitment to a more just and progressive taxation is. And neither do we know that a new plan for prevention and reduction of tax fraud has been approved as it had been compromised. In mobility, there is a backlog, for example, of the T-Mobility board, which was to be operational this year and which now the government is already talking about 2021. In universities, there is a 30_percent reduction in university fees approved for this Parliament and in the increase in university funding, but the Government has yet to face these commitments. In tourism, there is a decree to develop the tourism regulations, also pending. In the environment, climate emergence has been declared, but the low-emission areas or urban protected atmosphere areas have not yet been delineated and planned, as has been compromised by the Government. And as I said in the last debate, in the last seven years it has not been incorporated into the new megawatt energy system produced from renewable energies. In security, and I'm saying... the least I can say, the president hasn't exactly distinguished himself in his support of the Squad Moisson in his difficult task of protecting the rights, freedoms and security of everyone. The most obvious proof of this government's failure is that this exercise gave up presenting its premise, did not approve it or bring it to Parliament. We believe that Catalonia needs a good government, not this bad government. And the sooner we turn full, the better. Now, we won't turn full with a motion of censure condemned to the fracăs. As in so many things of life and politics, there are no straight lines; the only way to turn full is for a new election to be given, if Catalans want it, to a new majority. And I would like to dedicate the last part of my intervention to briefly describing the language of the alternative represented by the Socialists and Forward Units. And I wanted to start making two personal commitments, and before I said so: I want to become President of the Generality, if the citizens so want when they are called to the polls. But I want to do this, among other things, in order to honour two commitments: one, not to contribute to dividing Catalans more, and two, not to lie so as not to raise false expectations that then generate frustrations, as we have seen already. I offer respect, respect people, ideas, institutions and the law. I offer, yes, reconciliation and concord; it can offer concord without voting in favor of the motion of censure presented for you today. Because we actually want to reduce Catalan society, we want to avoid more divisions and fractures, we want to unite Catalans and Catalans into shared goals of progress, knowing that, in crucial issues, the plurality of opinions is great and sometimes the differences are also. We don't want to spoil the conflict, we don't want unanimated falsehoods, but we do believe that there has been a lack of effort to unite people around things that can actually unite a vast majority of Catalans. We offer dialogue, negotiation and pact as a way to address the issues of foundations; a dialogue, a negotiation and a pact that will take place within the framework of institutions and from a deep respect for legality. We have never said "the streets will always be ours; we, which we do offer ourselves, are because the streets are all ours and we can live with respect for each other's ideas. [[Some applause.]] We offer reforms through the instruments and majorities that assign the same laws. Reforms to do what? To improve our institutional framework, to strengthen self-government, to improve funding and to win over political decisions at the state level. I especially want to offer a good government, the good government I think the country needs. A good government able to effectively use the resources we have, the 40,000_million euros budget, the 250,000 public employees, of which 18,000 square moves, which fortunately will soon be more because the repositioning of seats and the creation of new seats has been activated. We want a good government able to drive economic progress, job creation, social policies, quality of public services, fight against inequality, poverty and social exclusion, territorial balance, economic and energy transition, better self-government and finance, collective security and better capacity to cope with all kinds of emergencies, the demand for more and better tools to build a better future, more active and effective participation in defining State policies, the greatest impact on European policies and the commitment to the most disadvantaged sectors. Catalonia needs a good government, a government able to get out of the sugar industry in which we have the process, the independence process; a government able to push the dialog between Catalans, and the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact with the Spanish side; a government that thinks of the Catalans side, that can overcome the divide, the crisis and the conflict that prevents us from moving forward; a government that, with all respect, is not the government we have: we need a very different government. I said, since 2015: "I want a better Catalonia in a different Spain. And this remains my objective, an objective that responds to my democratic, Catalan, socialist and federalist convictions, an objective that in my opinion, that in our opinion, is the best defense of the interests of Catalonia and the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans. We can't lose more time and energy, we can't lose more opportunities. The sooner we change direction, the better for everyone. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.16.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, now has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.17.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Iceta, the sum, that sum which does not give, however, I have seen Mr Sánchez present himself to a covering when the sum did not give. And what's worse, I've seen Mr. Sánchez take us to a new election, when the sum did. The sum did give you, Mr. Sanchez, but you didn't care, then. You, the argument this sum uses when it comes to you and, if not, listen, for something else, don't you? Look, I don't think you understand everything we've explained this morning. This goes far beyond a parliamentary sum. Because what we're playing here today is coexistence. What we're playing at today is freedom, Mr. Iceta. What we are playing is the security of Catalans, returning to normal in Catalonia. But you insist again on the sum, because you have not understood that this is not about parties. This is above the ideologies. And this is a time when the constitutionalists have to go together, we have to go hand in hand, Mr.Iceta. Today could have been a day of union, and you have, however, made it a sad day for constitutionalism. It's just that even in the face of such a serious situation they're not able to rectify. I will continue to insist on this intervention so that you can react. If they don't do it now, then when? If we don't go hand in hand now, then when? Mr. Iceta. What else has to happen in Catalonia for you to put aside the acronyms, the ideologies, the egos, and let's all go hand in hand? That's what many Catalans want on the street. When they come to us to speak, no one tells us: "Uy, no, no, don't agree. On the contrary, they want us to understand each other, because they feel helpless and are waiting for an answer, just as there was on September 6 and 7, 2017. That is what we are asked on the street and that is the obligation that we, as Democrats, have. Because if you say no to this motion of coexistence, this motion of freedom, this motion for normality to return to Catalonia, what you are saying is yes to Mr Torra. Mr Iceta, the Socialist Party is made in the image and likeness of Mr Sánchez, who refuses to negotiate, gives him the accounts or does not give him the accounts. You, what I told you before, when you add it up, because it gives, and when you don't add it up, because it doesn't. I insist that they have not yet understood the meaning and importance of this motion of censure for coexistence. Regardless of whether or not the accounts were finally drawn up, whether that is the least, Mr.Iceta, this motion must serve to unite constitutionalism. That is why we tabled this motion today. After seeing everything that has happened in Catalonia, in this black week, you said that the information is under secret summary. And yes, of course, the information is and the investigations are under summary secrecy. But I think that you, like me, like all my colleagues, saw here on Thursday with shame as the President of the Generalitat applauded alleged terrorists, as the independenceist parties that support this government applauded, jealousled and legitimized the violence of the radical separatists who are right now in the National Court for alleged terrorism. I think you saw him, just like us. We saw him with sadness, with much sadness, like many Catalans, with sadness and with concern. And that is why today it is more important than ever to present this motion of censure and that you support this motion of censure. I insist, we have seen how explosives are talked about in Catalonia, we have seen plans to assault this Parliament. We have also seen how, in addition, illegal resolutions were voted here again, as the independence parties voted to throw out the Civil Guard of Catalonia. Do you remain impassable above all this? Do you not plan to do anything at all, really? Are they really going to turn their backs on the constitutionalists, the Catalans who feel helpless? You said, Mr.Iceta, that we distribute meat from bad and good constitutionalists. Look, we have not distributed any card; the card has lost it you have usually erased yourself from constitutionalism by supporting Mr. Torra. You guys usually get rid of constitutionalism. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Iceta, we're not together because you don't want to. I've been telling you all week, let's talk, let's negotiate, let's talk about this motion of censorship of coexistence, let's go hand in hand to protect all Catalans again. We're not together because you don't want to. And you said here that is that we are not of your confidence, for an act that will continue to coincide in many of the proposals that we have tabled here. So, what's the problem? What's the problem? Partisan calculus, Mr. Iceta? The problem is that you can't stand us being the leaders of the opposition, being the first party in Catalonia, is that the problem? I really believe that in this case it does not matter who is leading this motion, who is leading constitutionalism, when it comes to democracy. This is about freedom. This is about living together. Not only among Catalans, but also with many citizens of the rest of Spain who, of course, are concerned about what is happening in Catalonia. And I think I have tried to make it very clear that, in this case, no matter the mistakes of the past, that the important thing is to go together, that the important thing is to be above the acronyms of the parties. And the question is, Mr Iceta, and Socialist Party gentlemen: if we are able to do that, why are you not able? The citizens of Catalonia are afraid, Mr.Iceta. We are no longer just talking about the terrible social fracture that separatism has created. We are no longer talking about the institutional crisis in which we are plunged. We're talking about fear. And even more afraid because they see as the Socialist Party, as Mr Sánchez, it is no longer just that he looks elsewhere at the barbarities that separatism is committing, no, it is that Mr Sánchez is refusing to sit down and talk to Citizens or the People's Party to present a joint response to these barbarities that we are seeing. I insist that we have seen the President of the Generalitat, Mr Torra, applaud and defend people who may end up convicted of terrorism. We are getting a lot of information, not just from people arrested for having explosives, not just people detained because they had plans to attack this Parliament, which there are two of them because they have confessed, but there is also information pointing to Mr Torra, who points to Mr Torra as aware of these plans, which seems to have helped them. What else has to happen, Mr Iceta, for us to sit down, talk and seek a joint solution so that the Catalans, once again, see that there are those who defend them in this Parliament, that we are able to go hand in hand in this Parliament, that they will not leave us alone, as they have left us so many other times? Now, in addition, in the next few days, we're going to know the sentence to the thugs, and Torra is already saying she's not going to abide by it. She's been threatening for months that she won't take care of her. You've been calling for disobedience, too, to warm up the streets. What are you going to do, Mr. Iceta? What are you going to do, appease them? What are you going to say, what you said the other day, that if you were to ask forgiveness, you would already have to give them forgiveness? Is that what you are going to do when we have a president of the Generalitat who is calling for disobedience? Can't you see that you can't be like this? Can't you see that we're facing the second part of the coup? I really believe that applying the Constitution in Catalonia is that it is not an option, it is an obligation, Mr.Iceta. Defending and protecting the rights and freedoms of Catalans is not an option, it is an obligation, Mr Iceta. And we, of course, will continue to ask you to defend and protect all Catalans. We're gonna keep doing it. Since Mr Sánchez even denies us this meeting to see how we do to comply with the Constitution, we will continue to insist here. But today you are going to lose a golden opportunity to prove that you are with the constitutionalists, to prove that you do not defend those who legitimise violence in this Parliament. I don't know, is your way of keeping your living together quiet? Is it because you don't report what's going on? Is that it, Mr. Iceta? Do you happen to tell them that, well, that they ask forgiveness and that nothing happens anymore, that they pardon them, that it doesn't happen at all...? Is that your way of protecting and defending all Catalans? , silence, complicity? That's not our way. And I ask you to join us. I insist, you're in time to rectify. Recapacitate. Look, on a question like this, Mr.Iceta, on a question in which we are playing so much, in which not only coexistence, but also security is at stake, there is no equidistance here. And you will see today who congratulates you for your words. The other day, as soon as you said you were not going to support this motion of censure, the government ran out to applaud, to be happy, because when you support separatism, what you are doing is going against the Catalans. And they, of course, rejoice. Of course, they're happy. We will see today when the lights of this panel are lit, if you continue to strive not to support this motion of censure, we will see who is happy, we will see who applauds, Mr.Iceta, if the Catalan constitutionalists or those who cheer and applaud alleged terrorists. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Iceta, you can't swim and keep your clothes at a time like this, because your silence, in this case, makes too much noise. In Torra's plan, radical commands are as important as equidistants, they are accomplices. That is why we ask you, precisely... (Remor de veus.) Prove it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.18.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.19.0	Prove with this motion of censure who you are with. I've been telling him all these days. This abstention, in the end, acts as an accomplice to separatism. It is that today there are no more..., there are only two options: either to say no to Mr. Torra and the radical separatist commands or to say yes to coexistence and freedom. There are no other options, Mr. Iceta. [[Greetings.]] And I know that perhaps it is that I no longer ask you to return to constitutionalism, I ask you to return to common sense. No one can understand this position of the Socialist Party. Indeed, I dare say that many Socialist Party voters do not understand that, at a time like this, when we are talking about explosives, where we are talking about people detained for alleged terrorism, where we are talking about people – about these detainees – who are pointing out to the President of the Generalitat himself, who defends and applauds these alleged terrorists, you are unable to put yourself on the right side of history. What else has to happen, Mr.Iceta, in Catalonia for you to support the constitutionalists and censor Mr.Totra? What else has to happen, Mr. Iceta? Millions of Catalan constitutionalists tell you that they do not understand this position of the Socialist Party, do not understand that they will fail at a time like this. If we are not able to unite before a president who defends alleged terrorists, then when are we going to do so? We will be in front, not in the middle, Mr Iceta, of those who defend alleged criminals who planned to attack in Catalonia and who planned to attack this Parliament, to assault this Parliament. We will stand by the Catalans who deserve a government that will put an end to this totalitarian drift before it is too late. When the separatists touch bottom, which is not that I say it alone, which even Mrs Artadi also says, it is curious because always – always – the Socialist Party comes out to the rescue. Socialists have become the rescuers of process and separatism. That pact of the Barcelona Diputation, Mr.Iceta, shameful, with those who call us « mad beasts, with those of 3_per_cent, with those who applaud and holler at alleged terrorists... (Applause.) You have to break that pact with Torra in the Barcelona Diputation. I ask you not to mistake allies and, above all, Mr Iceta, not to mistake adversaries, because if today you choose to forgive Torra, tomorrow you will have to apologize to millions of Catalans for not being able to live up to it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.20.0	For a first reply, Mr Miquel Iceta has the word. When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.21.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Roldán, don't fool me anymore. [[Greetings.]] Do not tell Catalans that freedom, coexistence, tolerance depend on a failed motion of censure. Don't tell them that, because it's radically fake. You've done a political, legitimate, propagandistic operation, but failed well in the past. If you haven't spoken to the rest of the groups to ask for their support, why? Because they had already introduced him, because he was his young man... the motion of Lorena Roldán. Not the motion of liberty, nor the motion of coexistence, nor the motion of concord... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] The motion of the failed Lorena Roldán. [[Widow's remorse.]] And you say: "Summ. Escotti'm... Yes, « failed because it presents a motion that loses, not for nothing... Not for nothing... [[Rialles.]] Just for that. You say: "The government was very happy when you said that you were abstaining. No, no, no, you're wrong. The government was excited when you said that you were being presented with a motion of censure. [[Rialles.]] That's what happened. [[Greetings.]] I said: "Sanchez presented a motion without knowing that he was going to approve it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.22.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.23.0	Look, you're not Pedro Sánchez, but you're not Pasqual Maragall either, and in any case, I've recognized him five times – now, six – the legitimacy of the operation. What I really want is to make it clear that I can't fool people. If we give the votes to your young man today, he will be equally defeated and, then, he will associate us with his frailties. No, thank you. If you yourself have given up being part of a coalition that is called Spain Suma. If you don't want to join us for Spain, you have to tell us that we don't want to join us for you. [[Greetings.]] And you said one thing, "What else is going to happen? What else is going to happen? While there is a majority of Parliamentarians who support the continuity of the President of the Generality, what shall we do? To denounce and criticize everything we have for good, but not to deceive people with false maneuvers or pyromusical condemnations. And he says to me: "No, if you are to break the agreements with the independenceists. Look, Mrs. Roldán, let's see if you understand, because there are fears that they are politics and others that they have to do with arithmetic, which usually occurs before school that the issues that they have to do with politics [[strong rialles]] If we had done this to you, today, the Mayor of Barcelona would be independent and the President of the Barcelona Parliament would be independent. [[Greetings.]] Let's see if they learn to count, with the dicts. They say that they all depend on us..., that « what will we do with our motions presented? Excuse me, with the motions that Parliament approved and that are illegal? So, the one made the Government of Spain, send them to the Constitutional Court. That's what we've done, what I'm supposed to do. What I have to say to you is that we, when we ruled, the Socialists, did not have any illegal references or unilateral declarations of independence, which I can say because it's true, because it's history. And I also have to tell you one thing, the PSC existed before I was there, there existed long before Pedro Sánchez came to preside over the PSOE, but I'm telling him – maybe he can take it as a console – there will come a time when I will not be in the lead of the PSC nor Pedro Sánchez will be in the lead of the PSOE, but our parties will follow his story. [[We were there when the Constitution was made. I, of the things I am proud of, in part, do not deserve it, but, finally, because it is a matter of age, it is that I went to the institutes of Barcelona asking for yes to the Constitution and some, now, want to give us lessons that are more constitutional than we are. Miri, please, let's teach the women who can give them and, to us, I don't know if you can give us any good lessons. What did you say if I went to the Via Catalana of the year 2013? What would they say to us? (Applause.)]] And, over the sentence, listen, we have already said that we must do with the sentence: heed it; we have already said it, clearly. And we say more things, because today there are many people who are thinking: "What shall we do? What are we going to do with the feeling? And there are already people who want to mobilize against the sentence. And I say to them the following: "Exercising their rights of assembly, demonstration and free expression, what they will be doing is honoring the Spanish Constitution, which fortunately we got the year 1978. Now, they say: « Pedro Sánchez did not want to meet with us. Well, maybe he knows them... [[Widow's remorse.]] But it is that, before that, you did not want to or pose on the phone; it is now that, recently, you have made a turn, in view of the questions, because we must be the worst, but you must have read The Reason, today: the eleven Members who lose you win me. For one thing, among other things, for those who have passed to Catalonia these past two years. [[Greetings.]] I, listen to me, we don't make a mistake about adversaries, ever. We have clear opponents, but they are not, in general, parties, they are social problems. Our adversary is the twilight, our adversary is the social exclusion, the inequality. And yes, indeed, sometimes, we can be very beautiful with those who are tempted against living together or who we consider to be doing so, but we do not, when we leave the house, exercise "today with whom will I put myself? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is not our way of hearing politics. Our way of hearing politics is much simpler. We think: "What social problem can you address today? Who are the alliances that we can establish to defeat him? And from this point of view, we have no harm; we, with whom we can agree to resolve a concrete issue, do so. And, then, you say: "No, you have to vote for us, so you will prove that I am... But what are you saying to me? The PSC is a 40-year-old party, the PSOE, a hundred-and-forty, will not be voting in an opportunistic movement that you raise today, without the numbers coming out, that the PSC will prove one or the other. Home, be a little more modest; I sometimes try, even though you make it very difficult. There's one thing that, maybe, is why I'm talking in a much slower way than usual, but, look, we've been, like you, victims of intolerance. We have also seen our actions trying to upset them by people who don't think the same; we have seen our attacks, our national, but many of them in the country; we have seen, in other times, our comrades murdered for terrorism, which you still can't say and I am very glad that this is the case forever; but, therefore, they do not come to blame the PSC for any complicity, no understanding, no tolerance with those who practice the violence of which we have been victims. [[Greetings.]] I think today you have to try to get away with a failed operation, and I understand that, because everyone, sometimes, does political operations that don't go well. How should you explain your weakness? What will they say? « Has the Socialists not voted for us? If not with our votes you get this motion of censure. A motion of censure may serve – and I thought that's why they wanted it, but then I saw that maybe not – to fill those criticisms with the Government of Catalonia and the President of the Generality that I have for convenience. But, no. I was told, "Miquel, don't be silly. These present the motion against you. I didn't believe it. I thought, "It's impossible. How is that possible? Because the motion of censure, if it's not to win it, it's to argue against who's present it. But after seeing what his intervention was, the time and the emphasis he used with respect for some or others, it's obvious that you only wanted the young man thinking that you were winning her securely. Why? If it happened that yes, that it was impossible, they would winya; if it happened that no, but the PSC would not support it, they would winya, because the PSC was the pain of the film and if you introduced it and went out that yes, they had the PSC at the back and always appeared as their attachment in this Catalan policy operation. Miri, I've said it over and over again, this motion of censure" don't give the numbers. I did not object to what they theoretically object to the motion of censure, which is nothing other than the democratic replacement of one president for another. Therefore, you have been able to use it, calmly, to accumulate arguments against the President of the Generality. Listen, I didn't vote for your investiture, I voted against it, like you. I don't want you to go any further. Perhaps there is a difference; I admit that a majority of Parliamentarians have value and that, while the President has the support of a majority of Parliamentarians, I can't move it in any other direction. I do recognize and about that. Because if we do not respect the rules of the game, which are the rules that govern our coexistence, we will hardly be able to maintain this coexistence. And, therefore, I pray you, because you do me a favor and I admit it, you admit to me, if you want to prove that the unity of constitutionalism really is the one that moves us, do not attack the constitutionalists in parliamentary debates. If you want to prove that there is a possibility of understanding and alternative, beyond what you are in the chamber today, because that is why Catalans and Catalans wanted it, prove it, in the best way possible, that it is complicit with parties with which, effectively, we agree in some things and not in some other. You said, "We agree, and why don't you vote for me if we agree? Listen to me, before, Councilwoman Meritxell Budó gave him some money. It turns out that seven of their proposals were approved, probably some, and so on, found the support of some independence group, because, but the numbers do not give. Therefore, it represents that there may be coincidences with very different groups. The problem of our country – and I suppose we would agree – is that, situated in the political debate and focused on independence, these agreements and complicitys are more difficult than the two blocks of the chamber. We are, if you say so, on your side. We are against independence. We believe that there is a better system for resolving the anxieties, the longings for freedom, for self-government in our country. You say, "It's not like he's moving. I respect your position, I'd just miss it, which is why you have a game and we have ours. In the intervention of Ignacio Martín, he has made a dissection of what he considers to be the problems already inherited from many years of nationalism; in many of the questions we may agree, in others, perhaps, not, would only be lacking. I liked his defense of the Catalan language as a collection of Catalan heritage and not on one side of the country, and also, sometimes, the denunciation of those who pretend to patriminate him. It seemed interesting to me. This shows that there is a lot of ground in which we can agree, but we do not expect the demonstration of this affinity to be given for the vote to a motion of censure condemned to the fracá, because this is what brought us, today, here. I'm telling you, is this completely useless? No, and I have thanked him, in my intervention, for having placed on the table the possibility of making a debate, a debate which, to some extent, repeats debates already made, but which is never over. I'm done. You're constantly referring to what happened in the past full. And I'll say, you're right. I was not pleased that some applauded the arrests of people who may have committed serious crimes. I was also pleased that you told the president that you were sending us slips. But you are right, there can be no manifestation that it can be read, even though it is wrong, for some, giving support to violent action or that it has taken place or that it was preparing. Now, I won't be the one to unravel a summary secret. I will not be able to draw political conclusions from an ongoing investigation, which is precisely a summary secret. How, sooner or later, this secret will end and, later or later, there will be a sentence, perhaps, then, we will have to speak with knowledge of the cause and with equal arms of the questions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.24.0	Congressman, time's up. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] For the second answer, you have the word, again, Mrs. Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.25.0	Yeah. Thank you, President. Mr. Iceta, I wish you'd become just as brave when this gentleman here is dedicated to hollering and applauding the alleged terrorists. I wish. [[Greetings.]] Finally, it finally comes out, Mr. Iceta. But, of course, as always, wronging himself as an ally, as always, wronging himself as an ally. It was going to be weird for you to change, today, here, even though we've tried until the last moment. You've talked, well, about failure. Do you know what a failure would have been? Not to present today, here, this motion for coexistence. This motion is a victory, it is the victory of dignity, Mr Iceta, the victory of decency, that is what it is to present this motion of censure today, here in Parliament. [[Greetings.]] It's a moral victory. And what is a democratic shame is that you do not join it. You were talking to me about arithmetic, about the sums, you were there turning it around, weren't you? I think, maybe, who has to do an arithmetic review, Mr. Iceta, it's you. Why do you know what I'm telling you? That, in the Barcelona Diputation, of course there was another possible sum, but, as always, you chose the separatists and the nationalists, as always the Socialist Party of Mr Sánchez does. [[Greetings.]] When they have the opportunity, they don't choose the constitutionalists, they choose those who want to liquidate our country and the example has it in that pact of shame in the City of Barcelona and also in the City of Barcelona. If it were for us, today, in Barcelona, there would be a socialist mayor. [[Greetings.]] You were also talking to me about demonstrations, what would happen if you had gone to an independence demonstration in 2013. Well, do you know what I'm telling you? That you and the Socialist Party led and led a demonstration against the Constitutional Court, a demonstration that was called, the motto was "Som was born. We decide. Do not teach me lessons, Mr Iceta, from the demonstrations to which you are going and to which you are not going. [[Greetings.]] And rest assured that this motion of censure, Mr. Iceta, is not for you. This motion of censure is for Mr Torra, it is for Mr Torra's government, it is for those who jail and defend suspected terrorists in this Parliament, it is for those who not only look elsewhere when people with explosives are stopped, but, above all, legitimise violence. That is what this motion of censure is for, Mr. Iceta. And for that we asked for your support and we asked for you to be recapacitated. Because you know what is happening in Catalonia, you know it very well as much as you try to disguise, you know it very well as much as Mr Sánchez repeats and repeats that in Catalonia nothing happens at all and that in Catalonia there is normality. If even you yourself have recognized it now here in this rostrum. You have come here and told us that you, like us, have many councillors, according to which localities, who are targeted and harassed by radical separatists. He has come here and explained to us how you too suffer intolerable attacks, as happens to us at our headquarters. He has come here and told us the harassment and warning they suffer simply by defending what they think, by defending their ideas. I am also convinced that many Members of the Socialist bench have received macho insults, as I do, as our fellow Members, including racists, insults, pardons, homophobes, receive. Well, all kinds of harassment and harassment taking place, unfortunately, in Catalonia by those radical separatists, who have chosen violence as an option today. And yet, how are you going to look into the face of those councillors who are suffering that harassment and that signal from the radical separatists? And how are you going to explain that you here today did not want to add up to censor Mr. Torra? How are you going to explain it to him, Mr. Iceta? I really know that you know what we face because you suffer it, you suffer it like we do. You explained it yourself here. That is why it is so difficult for us to understand that you are going to legitimize Mr. Torra today and you are not taking the side of coexistence, freedom and normality in Catalonia today. We don't understand how they want to plant faces, Mr. Iceta. And I think it's going to be very complicated to explain it to the Catalans, to those Catalans who are out there and who were waiting for heights of sight today, and who were hoping that today you would be able to put the differences aside and that we would look only at what unites us. Because, Mr. Iceta, this is not a question of numbers, this is a question of moral decency. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.26.0	For the counter-reply, has the word Mr.Iceta. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.27.0	Look, I've done a lot of criticism to President Torra. At one point, I found it difficult to understand an expression that made reference to me as it pointed to my presumption – I say, presumption – cynicism. But, look, of the many things that Mr. Torra has done, he's never accused me of complicity with the violent, he's never accused the Socialists of connivance with those who live together. So, I can't tell you, can I? ... And as long as we govern together. And you'll find in the congressional program something that goes against the... I'm sorry, I'm going back to basic arithmetic. At the Barcelona Diputation, there was a majority possible: Esquerra Republicana, Junts per Catalunya and els Comuns, who would have donated an independent president, as in Barcelona. And if you don't believe what I'm saying, ask Manuel Valls, who will perfectly explain why he did what he did in Barcelona. [[Greetings.]] If you don't believe me, I'm not a math teacher, so I've got some good policy that knows a little bit more about arithmetic. And what have we done? I'm taking advantage of it to explain. We, in the places where we can leave behind the conflict over independence, those institutions in which we can say: « Esconti'm, on the independence every candidate who votes, but, in change, we agree to make social policies for the benefit of the citizenry, or support policies to the local world from the resources that the Barcelona Parliament has, no, we do not make a policy of exclusion, we make a policy of good understanding. So much so that some and all together the government with you, for example, that of Sant Vicenç dels Horts, which is an assembly, let's say, with a certain special connotation. And why was it possible? Is that why the Socialists and Citizens agree on everything and everything? No, because we were able to agree on a government program. And I thought you'd make an effort to convince us to make a reunion for a government program, but the proof that you didn't want it was that you presented the young man without talking to anyone. Your predecessor, in this, did better. Forgive me, let me tell you, I don't want to put it in evidence, but before I decided, he said: "I want to know what groups think about it. And then she did her reflection and made her public. You've done it backwards. He said: "What do we need? A notoriety, raise a debate, probably raise a candidate too. We're presenting a young man. And then, the others, they'll come running after us. Well, they found themselves out of it. Why? First and foremost, because the numbers don't give. You cannot say anything to the citizenry of what this motion would have been with our vote, because with our vote it would have failed exactly the same. I won't get tired of saying it. I plant it, man. Miri, we have planted a lot of circumstances, historically. And we too, and our mayors especially, when the U of October's illegal reference came precisely, they found, also, in a certain – with forgiveness of the expression, they will already hear me – fire created, because they found with people that asked for some things, people that asked for them, and they always chose to live together. Even we saw images like the Mayor of the Hospital, I was criticized for some voters who wanted to vote and she had not collaborated, and also for some cops who wanted to do an act that she considered disproportionate. We, the U of October, also when we saw that there was a disproportionate performance, did not cost us to go out publicly to say so. Now, has any criticism been made of our adversaries in this case of the independenceists? No, no, But, anyway, this is the game of politics. Every game... And so don't tell me another time: « And you can look at the eyes...? Look, I've been looking at my people for over 40 years. [[applause]] , that for something, among others, I have been appointed leader of my party. Not everyone can say the same. People up at other places. Jo, through some primaries, competitions. But, listen to me, I think we do the best we can to live together by saying things for his name. The motion that you are presenting today was condemned, in advance, by the fine old man, to the fracá. And, therefore, it was a young man who might have a political sense for you, but you must be able to hear that it is a radically different political sense for us. I ask you again: don't tell us we're conniving with the violent and the violent. For us, it may be up to us to make very tough decisions, and I am talking about us, in this case the Government of Spain, if things don't go where they should go. I'll do it. And we hope to count on your support, as we have lent ours to a People's Party government in rather sad and well-known circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.28.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Catalonia in Comú We can have the word Jessica Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.29.0	Yes, thank you, President. And good afternoon to all of you and all of you. Wait for you to be enjoying this third act of electoral campaign of Ciutadans for the proper elections of November 10th. Because the first act of campaigning was last week, on September 25, when Mrs. Arrimadas and Mr. Rivera walked through Vic while here, in Parliament, Mrs. Roldán linked terrorism to independence and taught the photo of Vic's storm, an authentic banalization of terrorism, and more thinking that it is done in Catalonia, that it was one of the territories... [[applause]] , one of the territories most affected by ETA terrorism, with fifty-four mortal victims. The second act of the campaign was the next day, when... well, the game we saw in Parliament. You left this Parliament, this House, when Mr Carrizosa was expelled after looking for the red flag by Roger Torrent. This was the second act of the campaign. And the third is this motion of censure, a motion of censure that we all know is in front of the gallery and that it's still a campaign act that wants us to pay all Catalans and all Catalans. Because you're very full of mouths talking about the "syringuitos del proceso, the "syringuitos de la Generalitat", but you don't have any respect for the Catalan institutions. But then we'll talk about the "citizens' gypsies where they rule. Look, we've said a lot of times that we're in the ideological antipodes of this government, and we're not tired of repeating that we think that Catalonia needs a left-wing government, a progressive government, and a Catalan government. But as Mr. Iceta has just said, "numbers don't add up. And if you donate, in any case, it would never be with you. Therefore, what we will not do will be to enter the game of Ciutadans Jo would ask that no political force make it this late. So I would also ask no one to engage, Mr. Iceta, not to engage because I think it's not worth it, because we all know in this House and in this Parliament what this motion of censure was about. I would like to say that, beyond all the political and ideological differences that we can have the different strengths of this chamber, there is one thing that I think we need to share, and it is that Catalonia does not want any more chrism and Catalonia wants to move forward in agreement and in dialogue. And here, without forgetting humility, but I do want to say one thing. Everyone here pulls the strings when it's okay, so I want to do it too. It turns out that these are now saying that there is a vast majority of Catalans and Catalans who say that the best solution and that the best way and who really bets on the dialog and the agreement to resolve the conflict that we have between Catalonia and Spain is in Common We Can and United We Can. Everyone's talking about questioning when they give it good, I want to do it too. But, said that, I'd really like to talk to you about this government or this Tora-Aragonese breakdown, wouldn't I? That's what this is all about. Censorship motions are constructive, but obviously they are against a government or a government, as is the case here. This government has not completed a_sol of its objectives, does not govern, is paralyzed, does not answer social issues, has given gangs on the national issue. And, besides, this government also doesn't get used to settling down pretty much into anything. In fact, I'd say he's mostly just agreeing on three things. The first, to prevent the appearance of the Councillor of the Interior, Mr. Miquel Buch, to give explanations on the unjustified violence, on the charges that there was in a denunciation to Sants. That's why they agreed together for Catalonia and the Republican Left, too, from the hands of Citizens and the People's Party. What's the matter with you? The second thing is that they have agreed, in order to make absolute silence before some unfortunate, unfortunate statements, I would say, of the Councillor of Education criticizing the teachers, when they are the ones who have actually been enduring the public education system of Catalonia, despite the detail. And the third thing in which they later agreed was to say that Catalonia's economy was well and proud of macroeconomic figures, with a triumphalist speech, when we all know that Catalonia's social majority has never recovered from the crisis. And in this respect, I reminded the President the other day in the general policy debate of some data, some figures, that I already went to him, President, that you did not want to comment on them because they did not like him. I don't like them either, but I think I need to present them because they should be the priority of any government's action. And I do want to remind them quickly. In Catalonia, right now, 20_per_cent less is invested in social policies that are two years old and we are the least that we have reversed the retails of the entire State; we have the list of expectations that is more dependent on the State; now Catalonia is a 27.5-minus in health care that is two years old, and a 12_per_cent less in education. In addition, they tell you that 14 percent of the working population is under the poverty line. In the first quarter of 2019 there were more than 3,550 denunciations in Catalonia, which means that every day some forty families are losing their homes. The evolution of the data of the weather is certainly worrying. And so is the industrial sector. In fact, we have several EROs on the march. The councilwoman must have known. We have two factories of the multinational General Cable, in Montcada and Reixach and in Manlleu, directly affecting five hundred workers and workers. I say directly because indirectly there are many more. And another, also in Montcada, TE Connectivity, which will affect one hundred workers and workers. And this is the show that Catalonia's economy isn't as good as the government says, and so is the retailing of the lowlands. Now, he has to see if Cities is a solution to the paralysis and the block in which Catalonia is installed or if Cities is a problem. And we consider that Ciutadans is not a solution, Ciutadans is a problem. And it's a problem because the only project that has is the chasm and division of popular classes in this country, it's the denial of the exceptional situation, it's revenge and it's repression. So I can never be an alternative. And so, just as at the time we voted not to Mr. Torra as President of the Generality, for the reactionary visit you have from Catalonia, today we will vote not to Mrs. Roldán, who every day stirs up hatred with more arsonous statements. I, in fact, Mrs. Roldán, when I listen to him, don't know if he saw Matrix, saw Catalonia or saw a movie by Tarantino. Because you, who have spoken so much about Matrix, I believe that Mrs. Roldán actually saw a film by Tarantino. And the other day, Mrs. Roldán, I already told the president that Catalonia is really needed to move forward, and today I see myself under the obligation to remind you that public representatives do not have the right to lie. What this means is that if we go to Barcelona with chains for the road, if there have been rubber-2 matches, that if in Catalonia things happen every day so that 155 will apply. Not because it applies, it is that according to you you should never have risen to 155 de Catalunya. And, therefore, I want to say that a lie, much as it is repeated a thousand times, will not become a truth, and that fake news will not cease to be the most common strategy that is using the extreme right at the global level, and you, much as they are ruling with Vox, should not replicate it. [[Some applause.]] But it seems to you that any excuse or invention goes well to think about how it happens on your own telenews, and you say it's not all going well. Last week they wanted to turn this Parliament into a circus and today they want to turn it into a TV set. Because today we do not see a serious motion of censure, we witness, as I said, an act of electoral campaign in Ciutadans that, on one side, wants us to pay all Catalans and Catalans and, on the other, wants us to give him the rest of the political forces of this chamber. That's why I'm very careful with all the parliamentary groups because we didn't finish playing Ciutadans, which we always did. Because, moreover, this motion of censure is not going to end: neither do they have the necessary support nor do they have a consensus candidate. And I think that, in any case, it would be interesting for some political actors to answer some questions that generate this motion of censure. The first: why did Mrs. Arrimadas never push her before? You say it's because there's been some arrests now, but it's that you're telling us from the zero minute of this legislature that we're going to have to have a 155 in the world. So why didn't you introduce her, this motion of censure, a year and a half ago? Maybe it's because now your top political leaders have all gone to Madrid, they're just visiting, and I'm referring to Mrs. Arrimadas, Mr. Rivera, Mr. Girauta or Mr. Villegas, any of them. The point is that none of them are here in Catalonia right now. The second question. Clearly, you find your Vox partners missing in this chamber to form government, don't you? Because I'd say it's the trend they like most every time. The third question. I already put it on the table the other day, last week at the general policy debate, Mr. Iceta, and he didn't answer it. Mr. Iceta said in an interview that he was not willing to compromise with Ciutadans. We would like to know in what terms you would be willing to talk to Ciutadans, in what terms you would do well to make Mrs. Roldán president, and in what terms you would like to go hand in hand with Mr. Rivera. And I insist, I asked him last week and we still don't know the answer. But I believe that the great question that this motion of censure raises, which is a more fundamental question, is that it would be supposed for Catalonia to have a government of the Generality presided over by Citizens. I think that's the big question. And as you all know, Ciutadans has never ruled Catalonia, not even in a municipality in Catalonia – for our joy, right? So, we need to look at what they've been doing there where they've ruled. And I think after all this rest that I'm going to do, even some members of the Ciutadans bench will be able to agree with me that when you govern, you are a real public danger. I'll start with Andalusia, because it's the best place, it's the test lab where you're already showing who your priorities are and who you're ruling for, which is ultimately for you and your friends. The first months of the Andalusian trifachito can be summed up in four great lines of strategy which I will continue to explain, but which ultimately have a purpose, which is to detail the rights and freedoms of the popular classes of this country. The first strategic line: free bar of taxes for the most privileged. The tripartite that he has done has continued to deepen in the policy of the previous government of Susana Díaz, which has already reformed twice the inheritance tax. The PSOE opened the door to the tax gifts for the rich with 320_million euros and, then, the trifachito that made it went on to multiply the bet with 310_million euros more in retail for the public service. Therefore, if Ciutadans ruled Catalonia, he would be doing it for the rich and for the higher returns. According to the strategic line: "Syringuites, privileges and look for their own interests. You fill your mouth here every day talking about the Generality's "syringuitos", the need to regenerate institutions and the lack of transparency, and I must say to you: there is no lack of reason – there is no lack of reason. But we see what you do when you rule and when you have decision-making power. Ms. Marta Bosquet's cabinet, which is the president of the Andalusian Parliament, which is of the Citizens' Party, is of her party, is of the most Spanish cars, no more or less: it costs 450,000_euros a year. What else? While you unjustly and irrationally deny the regulation of loguers throughout the State, what do you do when you have the capacity? They keep privileges and help in their high ranks, which ended up practically turning it into an overhang. But it is that, moreover, you have converted the Board of Andalusia into the "limited board of society", and now you have returned to the President of Parliament the ability to contract all that is under the thirty-thousand euros. So, what do we say? Much demagogic, on one hand, and, ultimately, "syringuites, fingers and lack of transparency, which makes you the most applied students of the People's Party". [[Greetings.]] The third strategic line: the demolition of the social state. We have listened to Ciutadans, in eternal sessions in this Parliament, criticizing the government because they say that he only speaks about the national issue, and there we could also agree. And, besides, Mrs. Arrimadas, before, and now also Mrs. Roldán, when they talk about social issues they always do it with a certain vehemence; also normal donations the data of deep inequality that we have in Catalonia. But one more time: what do you do with sanitation, education and dependence when you are the ones in government? So, in sanitarium, you've increased the pressure for health concerts, right? They have set aside a drop-down plan for the waiting lists that targets 60_percent of the premise to expand the concerts with private clinics and to allocate 30_percent of the selected patients there: 60_percent of the premise for 30_percent of patients. Or so, I haven't seen a greater inefficiency in my life. [[Greetings.]] In education, what do you do, here in Catalonia say: "Clear, schools bressol, universal and free. Clearly, we share that, but what do you do when you're in government? What are you doing in Andalusia? First measure in education: they have pushed the price of children's schools. If he can't hold on! They've pushed the price of children's schools. [[Greetings.]] What else have they done? They've put a thousand places in the public offer of oppositions. And what else have they done? That's right, I'm announcing free books for primary school. But, of course, it's that you have a trap, because it turns out that you were already legally required to put free books in primary school, and it was collected even in the Andalus State. Therefore, what you do is sell as a success what was a legal obligation. Therefore, also in education, retail in equal opportunities, retail in the future of the common people and more postureig. And in dependence, what have you done? So they presented a $77-million bill to turn it around to the addiction system, which, a priori, would seem to be fine, but what's the problem with you? That they don't have any money. And why aren't there any money? So why did you vote against the general assumptions of the state, and why, on the other hand, you are giving tax gifts to the richest. Conclusion: The women are the ones who continue to carry on their scales the tasks of cures in private space; you have left the workers of the addiction system behind, and they have not attacked the main evil that the addiction system has in this country, which is privatization. Besides, it's a private system that's mostly perverted, and I'm saying that because what it does is that it's converting..., it's making the IBEX 35 companies, insurers and venture capital, with the needy, with the longings of our great people, which is what I would need most. And lastly, the fourth strategic line of your government action in Andalusia: it is not only that you follow the partners, the friends of the extreme right, but that the extreme right is marking the ideological timing in some key themes, which are country. To begin with, you have created the family counseling at the measure of the Monastery - Espinosa de los Monteros marriage; you have announced, moreover, that you will repeal the Law of Historical Memory, and you have allowed the Abascal youth to enter the educational centers and criminalize all those who are working for co-education and feminism. And, besides, a key issue such as the fight against masculinist rapes, they have turned it into an element of dealing with the extreme right, and what happens is that they are ultimately chasing and criminalizing all workers in the survivor service. This was his model in Andalusia, and the one that, of course, would want to import here to Catalonia. Now we look at Madrid, because we also see that the boss is repeating, adding, yes, a new element. You passed the entire electoral campaign charging against Manuela Carmena's city project, and in particular against Central Madrid. They promised that the first one they would do would be to abolish it, because it couldn't be, and that they needed to start an absolutely different stage. And what we see is that you lied, and now they say that you want to reduce contamination, but what you're doing is that you get more cars and more motorcycles into central Madrid. It is clear that you do not listen to young people, do not listen to experts and are not listening to associations of vehicles, because a plan to reduce the contamination with more cars, with more motorcycles, and without a given single and one single car, does not hold for place. Let's talk about the community now, because the community also repeats the pattern of the "singlinguites that so pleases the lords of Ciutadans. The point is so absurd that even Mrs. Ayuso, with her eloquence, has come out and said that, of course, they need more charge, because now they are two governments in one and, therefore, they need two more charge. This leads us to have 135 other jobs in the Community of Madrid. I think that 135 pleases you even more than Article 135 of the Constitution. So, well, these 135 high charges, because it turns out we have two governments in one, they cover between 75,000 and 100,000 euros a year. You're the ones talking about austerity and the "xiringuites." I, finally, and to finish, you, after the municipal elections of 2015 ruled in four municipalities of the Community of Madrid – four. In two cases of corruption: Molar and Arroyomolinos. And in a third, Valdemoro, she failed. You, who are the party of the managers, who were supposed to be the ones who knew how to rule. That's the success of their governments, isn't it? I believe that now you can say, after seeing your experience in Andalusia and Madrid, that you, truly, when you govern are a real public danger to the citizenry. I, of course, and now they're coming here... [[some applause]] And now they come here and introduce us to this fake young man whom they call 'living together; of course, and one question is: Citizens, living together? That's a little bit of an ox, but, well, what have you done? We will give you the benefit of the doubt: what have you done for coexistence in this country? To which alliances, to which pacts, to which agreements you have been able to arrive in Catalonia. Not in Catalonia anymore, I would say in the rest of the State, but well, let's focus on Catalonia. What pact, what agreement or alliance have you reached here? If it's a shame how they've taken advantage of the trust of the million people who put their vote to them. And I'm telling you the truth: this government deserves a motion of censure, we're not convinced. And I also believe that there must be firm opposition and opposition, but there can be opposition, and there can be opposition without so much gesticulation; without so much hate speech; without banalizing ETA's terrorism, which has done so much harm in this country; without making land policy cremated and just thinking about the own telenews; without claiming revenge, and, above all, without passing your life to justice, that you in the place of politics seem to be justice or fiscal. [[Greetings.]] Citizenship votes and pays us to engage in dialogue, to reach agreements and to do politics, to mount chicks and to perform shows. And I think it would be good if we took note of our great people, of people like Lluís Martí Bielsa, who left us yesterday, and who made his life an example of struggle against repression and of putting forward the values of freedom, equality and fraternity. [[Greetings.]] I think we should take a note, and get out of so much chasm. I'm done. I have already said that this government clearly deserves a motion of censure. Catalonia cannot follow without a horizon, without a future, paralyzed and blocked. But Mrs. Roldán: who forms part of the problem cannot be the solution. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.30.0	To answer, you have the word Mrs. Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.31.0	Yes; thank you, President. Mrs. Albiach, then, less evil than I live in a Tarantino movie, because what you have done here today is science fiction, but good – good. [[Greetings.]] I, if you like, will put you in touch with my colleagues in Andalusia and explain to you what we have done there. Simply by giving you a data, set: the minimum income benefits granted this year amount to 38_per_cent more than those granted throughout 2018. [[Greetings.]] A little to let you see that the data didn't just square you, Mrs. Albiach. Good thing you couldn't come here to lie to this rostrum, which has even accused me of lying and has taken away the theme of the catana, which seems to be a theme that makes a lot of grace here, trivializing what the neighbors of many neighborhoods of Barcelona are living: Raval, Verneda, Nou Barris, go talk to them, because I have indeed gone to talk to them and it is they who have explained to me what is going on in the streets of Barcelona, no matter how much Mrs. Colau denies it, no matter how much Mrs. Colau looks elsewhere. And no wonder, no wonder Mrs. Colau denies it because it's a shame how they're treating the neighbors in those neighborhoods, it's a real shame. And come here and give lessons today, so what do you want me to tell you? [[Greetings.]] But... I understand, I also understand..., I think today you had it much easier than the Socialist Party, because you already know all who you are, you whenever we look for you, you are always always next to the separatists, and today again you have demonstrated it. I do not know, Mrs Albiach, whether you have realized that this is a motion of censure to Torra, to the Government of Mr Torra, that it was not me, that it was not Citizens, that it is you again with the ‘citizenitis, who are always the same, are always the same, obsessed with us, that this goes from Mr Torra, that this goes from coexistence, that this goes from freedom, that this goes from a gentleman who does not only dedicate himself to calling our ‘beasts mad at the constitutionalists, that does not only say that we live or speak, rather, "the language of the vipers, that not only says that the nation runs the risk of undoing itself like a sugar from the immigration avalanche, not only that, that seems to you like, because I have not heard a single word of criticism to Mr Torra, it is that above, we have had to see here, with shame, as this gentleman was dedicated to applauding the alleged terrorists, and that you abstaining from all the worst. [[Greetings.]] That's the Commune Party in Catalonia, that's the Commune Party. You were incapable, unable to condemn violence and terrorism in this Parliament, you were unable to vote against to expel the Catalan Civil Guard, you were incapable. It's a real shame. And this is the balance that we make of your passage through Parliament, you sign with Junts per Catalunya, with Esquerra Republicana and with the CUP rejecting the arrest of seven alleged terrorists, which I do not say, which is said by the National Court. You are pushing here a motion to reprimand the head of state, a motion which, of course, the Constitutional Court has already said, was not within the competence of this Parliament and that cannot be done, but it does not matter to you. And of course you here because you have also been accomplices in that abstention to expel the Civil Guard of Catalonia. This is the balance sheet we are taking in this Parliament. So we are also not very surprised that today they are going to say 'no to this motion of censure,' they are going to say 'no to coexistence, 'no to freedom and 'no to democracy in Catalonia'. But you, well, have already deleted us..., if we had any doubt left, you today, with this intervention, have deleted it from a pen. You have preferred today to attack constitutionalism and stand beside Mr. Tora. Today, as yesterday, as you always do, you are always on their side. Every time we have needed the union of constitutionalists in this country, you have always been in the picture with those who want to liquidate Spain. Today, too, you will pass on to history as the perfect accomplices of nationalism. And neither are you going to live up to today, but it is not something new, it is not something new because you also failed millions of Catalans and the whole of Spaniards refusing to apply the Constitution in October 17 and two years later, because, of course, we again fail. I insist, I insist that it is nothing new, but look, I ask you: is it that you are not able to park the differences not just one day as today, when we have seen and lived this black week in Catalonia? After knowing that there were people who had materials to make explosives and attack Catalonia? Aren't they even going to be able to do it at that time? Look, I myself, in this Parliament, have applauded speeches that were not from my party, and many of us here will remember that, and I do not fall for rings either by telling now or by doing so at that time. And I'm talking about those infamous days of September 6th and 7th two years ago. And I make a quote from Mr Coscubala, who said, and I quote: "If it is to defend democracy, I do not care to share applause with anyone. Where is that party of the Commons? Where has it been, that you now stand with those who applaud the alleged terrorists? [[Greetings.]] You have come here and filled your mouth by talking about those programme measures that you defend, by talking about equality, as you always do, by talking about solidarity, but, you, it is that you do not deceive anyone absolutely, because you make sure that nationalism is a clearly insolidary ideology, and you insist and insist on being your palm trees. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.32.0	Have the word again to make the reply to Congresswoman Albiach. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.33.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Roldán, I... with a delicate tone. The only ones here who banalize terrorism and violence are you and you spoke of Mr. Torra, of the motion of censure to Torra, but it turns out that I do not know if you know that the motions of censure, as you have already remembered, are constructive. Therefore, today we are not voting as President of Mr Torra, today we are voting for you. And you do not represent harmony, nor do you represent coexistence. [[Greetings.]] More things. You talk a lot about nationalism and I don't like nationalism, but I don't like it. I don't like Catalan nationalism, but I don't like Spanish nationalism either. And I am convinced that you read one of the interviews that were made to one of the founders of Citizens, to Mr. Francesc de Carreras, that carried the following by title and that more in the interview brought it more developed and said: "Citizens have evolved towards a Spanish nationalism contrary to their idea. Therefore, neither Catalan nationalism nor Spanish nationalism. And I'll be very short because, as I said before, this censorship is a farce and I don't want to give him more money. I just want to say that there can be opposition in favor of Catalonia and not against Catalonia, which is what you do. And of course this government deserves a motion of censure, but a party that was born Social-Democratic, that then became liberal, that then wanted to occupy the People's Party's space, that now has no more ideology than these and that criminalizes any political option that is not its own, it is no alternative, Catalonia does not deserve it and we will never be on its side. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, please get out of Tarantino's film where they are installed and return to real Catalonia, which you have repression, which you have inequality and which you deserve to advance. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.34.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To make the second answer, has the word Mrs Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.35.0	Yes, Mrs Albiach, you insist with the subject of the constructive motion, the Fake motion, the motion that does not add up, the motion What happens, that you do not remember that motion of censure that Mr. Iglesias presented where he did not give the sum, where he did not give the sum? Don't you remember that? What happens, that you have selective memory, only what works for you? Only the data that is good for you and only the words that are good for you. What was that? What did Mr. Churches do, what was it? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.36.0	Deputies, please, quiet down.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.37.0	According to you, an election act? According to you, it was an election act, wasn't it? Because, of course, if it is so bad today... Of course I already insist, as you were telling me and explaining to me what a motion of censure consists of, because I fix myself in the name: motion of censure, to censure Mr. Torra, not to censure me, Mrs. Albiach. [[Greetings.]] That I know you want me, but it's not the case, it's not the case, Mrs. Albiach. You were also talking to me about leaders, about leaders of citizens who have gone, you were telling me. Well, look, those citizens' leaders who have gone are still living in Catalonia and are still defending Catalonia's interests from Madrid. Instead, his, his leaders, have gone either to Republican Left or with Errejón. Go get them, go get them there. [[Greetings.]] Of course it is a real shame to see how to win the applause of Torra you are going to lose the confidence and respect of millions of Catalans who are waiting for you to defend them, for you to defend your rights, who are already tired of this division that creates nationalism, who want to return to coexistence, who want to return to normality, but you prefer to take Mr Torra's favor. So we have it very clear: with you there is nothing to do. But I do have deep respect for their voters, of course I do, and I want to say to them – and I am going to address myself from here – and I want to say to them that another Catalonia is possible, that Catalans do not have to resign ourselves to having governments dedicated to ignoring more than half of Catalonia. By the way, as Mrs. Colau does, that the first thing she did, the first thing she did as mayor, was again hanging the loop on the balcony of the city hall, expelling and excluding many barcelonas, we are not going to do it. [[Greetings.]] So we in Citizens are willing to have a new government, a new government that tackles those problems that you complained about and that are not solved by Mr Torra's disgovernment, that are not solved because the process is a black hole that swallows absolutely everything. So we today, I insist, are very proud to present this motion of censorship for coexistence, because not doing so would be to give victory to the radicals. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.38.0	To make the reply, she has the word again and for five minutes Mrs Albiach's deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.39.0	I'll use 30 seconds. The sum of the motion of censure presented by Pablo Iglesias did give and ended up making it possible to take out Mariano Rajoy of Moncloa and that in the end was President Pedro Sánchez, with all the generosity and height of country that we had grown. On the other hand, I believe that you, at the moment, are missing your Vox members, because it seems that when they are not in a parliamentary chamber, you are not able to get to the top of the government, and I believe that you have already tried to inoculate the slogan of your own campaign that will be "Another Catalonia is possible. So I think that's why you're staying with this investiture session, because you're not going to be president, this motion of censure is not going to serve anything at all, and the only thing we're living with is that your slogan of campaign will be "Another Catalonia is possible. We will not give him more money, we will not enter his game, I insist, ask all the parliamentary groups of this chamber that we don't give him more money or more play to the Ciutadans game, that what we are seeing is that every week yes, every week no, when the Parliament doesn't turn him into a circus he has turned him into a television set, as he is trying to do today. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.40.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next and on behalf of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, has the words of Mr Vidal Aragonès. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.41.0	Late bona, deputies, deputies, parliamentary workers and parliamentary workers. Karl Marx, at the beginning of Luis Bonaparte's 18th Brumari, recovers a quote from Hegel to say that history always happens twice, but makes an addition and says that the first is as a drama and follows it as a farce. This will be the history for now of the motion of censure in this Parliament of Catalonia. He presented the PSUC, with words and defense of Josep Benet, a motion of censure that only voted the same Josep Benet favorably and the MPs and MPs of the PSUC, not even his final travel companions of the PCC, Communist Party of Catalonia, voted for it. That was a real tragedy. Then came a motion of censure by Maragall, presented by Maragall ; a motion of censure presented by Piqué and not voted, and today we find ourselves with the farce motion, with the second part of the story, with the repetition of the story, which is an authentic farce. And we say it's a farce because it's a farce, for a band, an electoralist, and also because it responds to an action of the Spanish state apparatus. What is Ciutadans looking for with this motion of censure? So look, we have to go and see what the text of the same motion of censure poses. If we read, we see that there is a paragraph where we are talking about unemployment, sanitation, corruption and twenty-one paragraphs where we are talking about very simple questions: trying to criminalise the President of the Catalonian Government or criminalizing the President of the Catalonian Government, criminalizing the government groups, criminalizing the joint independence and, finally, in some paragraph going to criminalize the joint of the Catalonian people and their system of linguistic immersion. That's the reality. And all this accompanied by "a period of state, "illegal activities, "nationalist control and ideological indoctrination. This morning, in the intervention of Mr Carrizosa, new times "violence, eight times" attack on coexistence, seven times "terrorism". This has been his full route to intervention. And Mrs Roldán has reversed the terms, exactly the reverse in the intervention regarding "terrorism", "attack to coexistence and "violence". Certainly, we have to say that Mrs Roldán, a little more cautious, spoke of "presumptive terrorists." This motion, really, is the political-institutional blank of the opposition of the State that is prepared in relation to the notification of the feelings derived from the independence movement and the U of October. The apparatus of the Spanish State requires different actions. The first, the construction of a report, of a report in which independence is to be equated with violation of fundamental rights, with indoctrination and with violence. A _second question is that this report or it creates the great communications media of the Spanish State and it is assumed by two political parties or it creates two political parties and it is replicated by the great communications media of the Spanish State. The third question, displacing more police and military units, Civil Guard and army, to give a repressive physical response to the response that the people of Catalonia will give, peacefully, in their mobilizations against the sentence. And the last question: an act already prepared two weeks ago of judicial character in which it is believed terrorists where there has not been so much violence. That's the reality. We will therefore vote "no to the motion of censure, because we will never play the game of those who want to divide and rape Catalan society. But this does not mean that we agree with what the Government of the Government of Catalonia has done in this legislature. This government, with the words of its president, said that the feeling of the present legislature was "from restitution to constitution. We haven't seen anything about restitution, and I don't think anyone today thinks we're going to finish this legislature with the constitution. Perhaps, at best, we can imagine that this legislature ends up in history as the one in which the two groups of government make a law to place even more public servants in the hands of private businesses. Surely, this will be the record that Catalan and Catalan will have on what this legislature means. We also want to say other things. Today, Catalan institutions are not a wall between repression and citizenship. Earlier, and in some expression of the Squadron Mosses, on the contrary: accomplices of a permanent act of persecution of the independence movement, and not only when they act as the judicial police, in different scenes: accusing us of organizing mobilizations and initiating dispatches, aiming at us and shooting us with rubber pilots, threatening us at the door of this Parliament, and even physically attacking combative independence, but also those who fight against disclaimers. This has been the reality of the squadron moss in the late period. And of course, this government doesn't give answers to the popular classes and to its day-to-day: 20_% of Catalans and Catalans in the outburst of the poor. And we see, for another band, how the guaranteed income of citizenship is managed with the neoliberal manual, that it is to put up a whole series of crossings because it is not possible to approve the benefits; as the public teaching today is neither so guaranteed nor guaranteed– there are large cities where in some barrels or so alone it is possible to guarantee that there is registration in an institute or in a public college– ; as the university, for its public priests is turned into an outcast, and it is also being built on the basis of the job precariousness of its workers and workers. A public sanitation that, in the measure that is effective through, in good measure, a private management model, cannot or does not want to give response to long and tireless waiting lists. And some ill-treated, ill-treated public workers when there's a counselor talking about how maybe some of them are gonna work, and some of them when there's a counselor talking about some of them going public. This is to mistreat workers and public workers. And a bet for private management, for corporate management of public services. You are moving forward to give the management of our public services, which means sovereignty, to those businesses, and all that after the U of October has been manifested openly in boycott of the republic. All this said to the Government, and above all to the groups of the Government, we want to convey to them another question: still in these circumstances, we would never deny the anti-repressive solidarity – ever. We build it day by day. And even in these circumstances, we want to work with a strategic unit of independence, but a strategic unit that is not to be renounced, which is what is being done in good measure for its groups, but is to move forward in the national construction process. Says that too, what did Citizens propose to us? What did Mr. Carrizosa and Mrs. Roldán tell us today, Mr. Martin Blanco? So look, first of all, we want to remember, and today it seemed that he wanted to deny, for Mr.Martin Blanco: Ciutadans was born to end the linguistic normalization of this country, and so it is in the founding document. But at the same time we don't want to forget your story: you haven't had any problems going with a candidacy – or various – sharing candidacy with some extreme right-wing groups that even denied the holocaust. You have no problem in being ruling in Murcia, Andalusia and the Madrid Community thanks to the vote of the extreme Francoist, racist and male right. And beyond their daily governments, why do they serve their votes, from a point of view of social issues? So look, you, at state level, at the Spanish Courts, have managed to block fifty-seven social laws, some – to refer to me there, simply – with what it could mean to push the minimum wage, push the pensions or the law of dependency. But when they propose, even sometimes it is worse: express denunciation, and what you call a one-time contract, which is usually one-time, without cause and with reduced compensation. This is the reality that we find each day of what Citizens means. And today they're giving us a bunch of proposals. Mirin, six generals, but then there are four blocks we make concrete proposals, and we wanted to analyze them in the short time we had. First proposal: reduce waiting lists. Reduce waiting lists, you, as you do in Andalusia, which this summer have granted not to cover downloads, permits or holidays. That's what they do when they rule. Second proposal: you are also talking about improving the guaranteed income of citizens; but, look, you, the Spanish Courts have voted for the processing of the minimum income. Fourth proposal: free text books, but you, with a proposal made by the Socialist Group to the Cortes de Castella and Lleó, voted absolutely against. And you are also talking about fighting for equality and against gender-based violence, which we call'male violence', and you have accepted in Andalusia Vox's imposition to talk about intra-family violence. What are they offering us? So look, what you're offering us is "Spain in progress." We have doubts, if they really want to go to the model of Macron or to the model of the Faixist groups that the Spanish State was presented with this name: Spain in March. But we also want to say that, look at you, 'Spain in progress, but for another band those who are the extreme right' Spain always; the PP, 'left or right? Spain, i ara, surprise, the PSC-PSOE, « Now, Spain. They must explain to us, to those who accuse us of nationalists and we are independent internationalists, when they say "nationalists", what you are talking about. Spain, Spain, Spain and Spain: this is their political proposal. And we also want to say, with all due respect, to the Socialist Group that it is well that you do not vote for this motion of censure, but it would still seem that you have provoked some elections to govern with these lords and with these lords. Tell them not to rule with Citizens, that's all it looks like, and, if not, explain, ruling with Citizens, what a day it will be with Catalonia, with the right of self-determination, and what policy proposals it will have, in any case, for the working classes of the Spanish state. Certainly, we are the only left-wing force who has already said in advance that he will not give his votes to the PSOE. To the Spanish Congress we go there not to give our votes to the PSOE. We want to say this and we want to make it very clear that this with the UPC will never happen. Move on. Miri, Mr. Carrizosa... – I'm looking for it; I don't see it..., it's not there; it's nothing. He raised a disjunctive that was important from a political point of view. To simplify it a lot, we have understood it even as "violation or democracy". And we understood that – indeed – from his intervention. And we have a clear option: we have an option in favour of democracy, and an option in favour of ending all rapes, a common denominator of the CUP's militancy, fighting for a world where there is no type of violence: neither capitalism nor patriarchal nor any other type. That, yes, we do, in favour of the right to protest and the legitimate exercise of political dissent. Always dissidents, never delinquents. We, in favour of the fundamental rights, in favour of the Charter of Human Rights; in favour, therefore, of the rights of peoples to live in poverty, and in favour of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. You, too, in favour of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights? I'd be fine if you answered that. They say yes, they say yes, and they read article number 1, which says: "All peoples have right to self-determination. Do you agree with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights? Or isn't this one, this one left on the sidelines? Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, we did not see them so outraged about the violence when Catalans and Catalans were being raped, they were being attacked, simply to want to do a peaceful and democratic exercise to vote which one they wanted to be their relationship with the Spanish State. Obviously, we're talking about the U of October. But, of course, the only way that this can happen, because we can talk about this, is that everyone and everyone can decide everything. Are we in agreement – you talking about democracy – that we can decide everything or there are things that we can't decide? And we also want to move them forward, for us, this is not possible in the Spanish Constitution, for some very simple questions: first of all, because the Spanish Constitution expressly denies the right of self-determination. And, second of all, because if we're talking about the possibilities of reforming the Spanish Constitution, the reality is two thirds, three fifths. Therefore, a third party – a third party – can permanently veto any possibility of constitutional reform. And, look, also – and it will surprise you that this group is telling you – because the legitimacy of the Spanish Constitution in Catalonia has broken. And it broke down in July 2010 on behalf of the Spanish State; it broke down after you got a text out of this Parliament, that you got another text out of the Spanish Congress, which is voted by means of a reference – we cried out to vote no; yet we didn't have a presence in Parliament but we cried out to vote no – so there was someone who decided that this was to be done and cut it short, left no minimal expression of democracy and sovereignty in this Parliament and the people of Catalonia. We also assume that Mr. Iceta remembers it, and remembers Mr. War talking about passing the ribot. I suppose they have given many turns to what that intervention meant both of Mr. War and of the Constitutional Court. We ask you that electoral propaganda, for electoral moments. But we see the possibility and the need to talk, to talk about this: to let go of tension, to stop provoking and to go to politics with capitals, politics that places human rights, politics with capitals where there is no refuge in complaints or quarrels but in debate and confrontation. Politics, with capitals, does not accept sacred country, and less if it is defense not for reason, but for the announcement of the sound of sabers. And we'd love to find ourselves more with you in the debate of ideas, in being able to talk, in ending political persecution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.42.0	Congressman...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.43.0	Is it possible to speak – and I ended up, President – of self-determination, amnesty and civil and social rights, or do they want to continue prohibiting us from talking about this and they want to continue pursuing what that means? We would like to find ourselves in the debate of ideas, in democracy. Are they coming?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.44.0	Thank you. To answer you have the word Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.45.0	Yes; thank you, President. Mr Aragonese, you said that our slogan of campaign is 'Spain in progress, that to you..., that generates doubts, that you do not know. Of course, we with you have no doubt, listen, because you have already told us that you are going to go to Madrid to block, just to block. Now, the little man, that's what you're going to take with you, isn't it, Mr. Aragonese? [[Greetings.]] And, look, in case you're curious, this motto of « Spain in progress is inspired by a poem by Gabriel Celaya, which I recommend you read. Anyway, I have to recognize something today, the gentlemen of the UPC, and the truth is that at least we have to say that you are consistent with your trajectory of being always next to evil. They harass Judge Llarena, Arran attacks the offices of Citizens, Arran squeezes constitutionalists in Catalonia. Of course, what were we going to expect from Arran's elders? For this they do today: to stand by those who support and jealous – you also do – those who can end up convicted of terrorism right now. Gentlemen of the CUP, you are exactly the opposite of everything we want to be in Citizens. You are anti-system, you are anti-Spanish, you are anti-constitutional, you are anti-democratic; you are so anti-democratic and you are not everything that reminds me of Groucho Marx's famous quote: "You would never vote in favour of a motion that would admit you as partners. Well, that's what you remind me of. [[Greetings.]] Moreover, I would even say that, if today you had supported us in this motion for coexistence, I believe that the constitutionalists should open a process of reflection to ask us what is happening, because it would be rare for you to be in favour of coexistence, freedom and democracy in Catalonia, which would be very rare. Because if by smoke you know where the fire is, where the CUP is you know where the bad for Spain is, the bad for equality and the bad for the rights of the Spaniards. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.46.0	To make the answer, it's the congressman's turn again; when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.47.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roldán, I recommend that you read more to Gabriel Celaya and all his work, because maybe there are many things that you don't just like about what you say. But, above all, a clear exercise of anti-francist resistance for many years. Miri, you're talking about the paguita. We don't like to talk about ourselves very much, but as you said, I'll explain it. I, because I have a son, I charge 1,666_euros, it's all my CUP tickets. You can imagine that as a labor lawyer and as a professor at university, with these two activities, only with one already charged more than double. I can imagine. Therefore, you do not come to give lessons from the "pay" when there is someone who has come here to do politics and is able, like my companies and my companies, to renounce aside from their tickets to defend the political project of the popular unit, and we are not very proud to have fewer tickets, whenever it means a coherence exercise to make us available to a political project like that of the popular unit. My compañeros and my compañeros you have there, 1,500_euros, that's what the members of the CUP cover. Another thing is that we enter, that we decide in a militant way to put it at the disposal of the movement. So as much as you ask, where are the lines of the UPC going? So, let's explain to him where the CUP's lines are going. You tell us we're anti-system. Miri, we're not anti-system, you're wrong, Mrs. Roldán. We're anti-capitalists. And do you know why we're anti-capitalists? Because what capitalism means today is the end of life, in an economic system like that of capitalism, we have the question of decades that the planet is ending, life is ending, and a political system that, after two centuries, has not been able to guarantee a single day of peace to the whole world or a life worthy of the conjunction of the world population. And this is our political proposal: a world with a decent life for everyone. And you tell us that we are anti-Spanish. Do you want to make any claims of anti-Spanish in us? Miri, I'll explain it in a very simple way. We're going to break with the Spanish State, but we don't have any elements to separate us from the Spanish and the Spanish; on the contrary. And you know why? Because the fact that you join us with Spaniards and Spaniards is not the same redhead that you defend so much. What unites us with Spaniards and Spaniards is being of working class, being of popular class and a common history of struggles, of struggles that we find ourselves in a present and in a future to end with everything that the 78's rule means. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.48.0	Thank you, Congressman. I've been asked for two minutes of time; I've been asked for two minutes of time. Then we will resume with the intervention, on behalf of its Parliamentary Group, the People's Party of Catalonia, by Mr.Alejandro Fernández. Two minutes away and after the intervention, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.49.0	Let's resume the session after this day. And we resume with the turn of the Parliamentary Subgroup of the People's Party of Catalonia. The word has the deputy Alejandro Fernández. When you want, Congressman. Quiet, please, let's resume the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.50.0	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, in our system, the motion of censure must be constructive, but also, worth redundancy, must censure the President of the Government. I have fifteen minutes in this speech and I will devote just over fifteen seconds to censoring the Quim Torra government. A mixture of incompetence in the management of public affairs, inability to legislate and reach agreements, of unprecedented emptiness and institutional contempt by transferring to a ghostly entity based in Waterloo all political decisions. In case this were little, a constant rhetoric of deep contempt to half the population of Catalonia. Mr. Torra, you who live obsessed with history, and I am very much afraid also of what the historical chronicles will say about you, I only have to wish you one thing: I hope you live forever so that you can read all of them. Our system, after a regulatory reform, places the threshold in twenty-seven Members to request a motion of censure. That made it impossible for our group to lead her. And that is precisely why we repeatedly ask the group of Citizens, especially as leaders of the opposition, and also the PSC, to present it. We welcome the citizens' understanding of the urgency of this motion and the rectification of its initial position. Constitutionalism cannot be just a protest movement. Can you use postmodern communication tools? Yeah, but it can't just be posters and postmodern communication. It must be a vigorous, intellectually solvent policy, it must take the initiative from the leadership and it must express itself if they are always serenity. The serenity that offers you the moral advantage of ideas of freedom, equality and fraternity. That's what we did on September 6 and 7 in this Parliament. And that's why we won that debate, even if we lost the vote. And that is what is going to happen here today too: we will win the debate, even if we lose the vote. In any case, our group has made every effort to regain that spirit of constitutional unity on 6 and 7 September. It wasn't possible. We've tried it with everyone, especially Mr. Iceta. A Mr. Iceta who three months ago said here textually, I quote textually: "that Mr. Torra produced tenderness for him and that, on the other hand, he stirs Lorena Roldán mercilessly. Mimitos for Torra and displeasure and contempt for Lorraine Roldán. Okay, but now it's up to me, if you'll excuse me. There is no intermediate point between democracy and disobedience, between democracy and chaos, between democracy and freedom, between democracy and street riots. To accept passively, Mr.Iceta, that we have a government that will have to face the days after the sentence threatening to paralyze Catalonia and to do so joyfully is not only irresponsible, it has no justification, neither political nor ethical: none. « Now, Spain prays the electoral slogan of the PSOE ; « now, they say. You know, Mr Iceta, my desire for Barrio Sesamo, especially Coco, who explained the difference between « near and « far. After listening, I'll explain the difference to you between now and then. « Now, Spain is here and now, today, in this vote; « then, it is God will say. Or is it Spain, now... What part don't you understand, Mr. Iceta? Do I have to spell it, you who are so brilliant? Do we have to repeat it? If Spain is now, I shall vote on this motion today, here and now. And if not, withdraw the campaign, because what you're doing is not right, taking people's hair, and it's a real shame. He never misses a chance to miss a chance. We've been asked how to solve the process lately. In all the interviews, they ask us. I always say that there are no shortcuts, no magic solutions; this will only come through a deep democratization of Catalan politics. I am still very surprised that it is said that on September 6th and 7th – supposedly moderate people say this – there have only been mischiefs, small things; no, it was the most obvious manifestation that we have a serious problem in Catalonia of democratic quality. And the most obvious manifestation of this is so-called compulsory nationalism, in greater or lesser intensity. Look, one of the skills that political Catalanism has had is to identify its ideology as synonymous with loving Catalonia, and that's not so; Catalanism is an ideology like any other, but it's not the only one that can love Catalonia. Catalanism is an ideology that points out that Catalonia is a nation, that it is a political subject of its own and that, therefore, it joins Spain if it wants and could separate if it wants. This, if we reviewed Prat de la Riba, Almirall, who are often quoted – I have never understood it – as moderate Catalanism, they talked about modernizing Spain, but then, if you read them thoroughly and truly, they always ended up talking about their own state, breaking the one. I do not share that idea and many of us do not share that idea; many of us believe that the only political subject really is the millions of Spaniards, Catalans included, free and equal who we constitute as a political community through our Constitution. It cannot be considered that all people we think so hate Catalonia or are enemies of Catalonia. Among other things, I will not enter in percentages if we are 53, 51, if the Commons, I don't know what, the case is that we are hundreds of thousands, some millions of Catalans that we think so. Catalonia has a very serious problem of democratic quality, because there is a government that demands a compulsory ideology and marginalizes half of the population that does not have it. Our idea, which we share many, is treated as an anathema, humiliated in the public media, is about botiflers or gnors to whom they defend it, is distorted in the public education system as if it were a fascist thing, when it turns out that it is the idea that governs the constitutions of the great democracies of the world. What is the solution to the process? I repeat, there are no shortcuts, the only solution to the process is democracy, but true democracy, that there is pluralism, and above all that there is political alternation. Have you realized that Catalonia is the only European region where there has never been an ideological alternation in government, which has always commanded the same ideology? And someone will tell me, rightly so, that's what people have voted for. Yes, but is it normal that it is the only one where there has been no ideological alternation and nationalism has always ruled? In short, if there is a solution? There's only one: alternation. The solution to the process will only come with a non-nationalist government. There will be no intermediate pacts, no shortcuts, no tangles. With a non-nationalist government. In this sense, I want to address myself to the hundreds of thousands of Catalans who share that idea of a plural Catalonia that is not identity, and I do so humbly, aware that my party has not received many votes in the last electoral calls, but I want to transfer the following to these people: if you ever felt lonely, it will never happen again, you will never feel alone again. I compromise my vocation and my word for it to be so. If you ever felt that the electoral victory of a constitutionalist political formation served no purpose, that you know that this motion of censure today must be the turning point for a new, strong, united policy and project, a genuine alternation, an alternative to govern. We also move and move that we will persevere; we will have all the patience that is needed – the same, if necessary, that the nationalists have had for more than thirty years of process of national construction. And that day will come, perhaps not immediately, but will come: a non-nationalist government in Catalonia, alternation, democratic normality, the solution to the process: a non-nationalist government. But I want to address myself also to the independenceists, and I know this may seem a little surprising because I am not going to receive any vote there, but we will have to continue living together in this wonderful shared Mediterranean land that is Catalonia. And I'm going to do it with respect and education, but without cursillaries: to distrust whoever wraps us in beautiful words, I call it the velvet perversity, probably wants to deceive you. It's a difficult art, I admit I'm incapable. I also recognize that it is cost-effective in the short term. Mr. Iceta, for example, is a master of planetary dimensions in such art. But saying this, I must tell you one thing: to trust you more of me, I will not give you ears with empathetic arrays, but I will always tell you the truth. First. Those of you who are independent, I know that you are not all, that by digging and reviewing in your conscience you think that those who do not think like you are botiflers and gnors, that you know that that is called intolerance of xenophobic dyes, and that it is an unacceptable attitude in democracy. Two. Hate someone for not feeling the same identity as one, for me it is inconceivable; I do not hate you, I am unable to hate someone for their ideas or for not feeling Spanish. I could hate someone who attacked me, my family, my friends, but impossible that I could hate someone for their ideology. Moreover, to many, also in this room I have said this once, I sincerely appreciate you, without courses, but I appreciate you. I won't give you names, I don't want Waterloo to hit you two days from now. And when talking about the topic of broken, broken friendships, I wouldn't say, damaged yes; nothing I would like more than to recompose them, but if the price to recompose them is to shut up or give up my ideas, never, because I would never ask a friend of mine to give up his to consider as such. Now, I would ask you to abide by the law, because that too I ask and demand for myself. Three. If I were an independentist, I would be very angry with leaders who promised me a happy archadia and that independence would be « bufar i fer blisters, which thirty great nations of the world would recognize us. A massive deception that has not had punishment in the ballot box and should have it. Four. If I were an independentist, I would be very angry with those very leaders who promised me a happy archadia and today demand that I risk my body and my integrity by facing the police for nothing: to destroy the economy, prestige and coexistence for nothing. Not at all, because no demonstration or strike will change any sentence, whatever it is, nor will it provoke any reaction from the European Union that is not the usual one: support for Spanish democracy. It will only be a nihilist harakiri for those who enjoy chaos through chaos. They are the same leaders who came to tell the independenceists that if everyone took 155_euros out of the bank at the same time, the euro would fall and Europe would have to give us independence. If a leader of mine told me such a majaderie, he'd let me go every minute. That's why I'm asking you to please reflect. Fifth. If your leaders tell you that the referendum of self-determination is possible and the problem is that Spain does not authorize it, they lie. This referendum is impossible here, in France, in Italy, in Germany and throughout democratic Europe. And there's only one country where it's possible because it has another system, which is Britain. Why? Because all European nations except one, all, are indivisible by definition – by definition. Enough of taking people's hair. That of the referendum... it's not possible, neither here in France nor in Germany. Or are they not democracies Germany, France and Italy? That's the big question. The only alternative you have, and that is true that the CUP has a certain consistency, when you say ‘falling the 78's rule. Okay, but I wonder, is anyone really sensible who thinks that's possible? If the CUP says so, it's normal, but is it reasonable to think it's possible? Is it really worth destroying an imperfect system by definition, because it is, but it works better than anyone you've met before? Look, everyone can feel their identity as they like. And it's true, there are almost two million Catalans who don't feel Spanish or feel very little Spanish. But I ask one question: should one really let oneself be dominated by emotions in such a way that he believes that he can overthrow the regime of 78, as they say? Or is that letting oneself be dominated by emotions and destroying intelligence? Have you really given up your intelligence and reason? It feels like it does. That's why I'm going to repeat, from respect and education, elements that are not my harvest – I'm not telling you, I'm nobody, I represent a party, I recognize, today, small – but that are the truth: one, that the law will continue to act on strikes or without them; that the rule of law will use the instruments that it has at its disposal to guarantee democracy and freedom on strikes or without them. And this is my harvest, which together, even feeling different things, has always been so much better than faced. We offer respect, but we also demand respect. And that's what I want to make clear. Changing government is absolutely urgent for social peace in Catalonia. We support this motion of censure because it is urgent to restore order and coexistence in the face of threats of serious disturbances after sentences. Catalonia needs a government to enforce and enforce the law. And, finally, I do not deny it, we also support this motion of censorship because it must serve as an embryo for an authentic constitutional policy that is constituted, worth the redundancy, as an alternative government in Catalonia, because the solution to the process – I repeat – is the alternation. There are no magic solutions, no shortcuts; this will only be resolved when nationalism stops ruling in the Generalitat of Catalonia. So, we're going to have patience, we're going to be able to build it, we're going to send a message of hope to millions of Catalans who are seeing us right now that they've been experiencing the latest stupefying events, but that I'm convinced that regardless of the outcome and here they will come out in the hope that someday we'll be able to achieve it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.51.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, has the word Mrs Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.52.0	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, of course, I would like to thank the People's Party for its vote in favour of this motion today. I would also like to thank you for understanding that this time it does not go from parties, this time it does not go from acronyms, but it will tell the Catalans that we will be together when it comes to working for coexistence, for freedom and now also for security. Since the first day on which Citizens decided to present this motion of censure, motion for coexistence, contacts with the People's Party have been fluid. And I think we have both given the message of union that the Catalan constitutionalists are waiting for, that before we worry about the color of their party or whether one is conservative or the other is liberal, they are worried about something that is far more important and that today will be decided here with our vote. Citizens who are worried about a future where they don't have to get up every day thinking about what rights separatism is going to trample today, thinking about whether the radical separatist commands that day are going to cut a road or block a train track, because they've already warned us, right? Mr. Torra, that this week, because as soon as the sentence comes out, we will again see the separatist commanders sowing chaos in Catalonia. We're thinking about those citizens who are worried. So thanks to the People's Party for demonstrating that the fight against nationalism is still worth it today. I insist that this is not to be blamed, that this is not to regret how we have come here for more mistakes that have been made in the past by the governments of Spain, by those who have looked elsewhere or by those who with their assignments have fed nationalism. It doesn't go from that; it's going to protect Catalans, it's going to recover coexistence and normality in Catalonia. So thank you for demonstrating with this vote that what united us in defense of the Constitution, in defense of democracy, in defense of coexistence, those black days of September 6th and 7th are still alive, which we continue to have reasons, because Catalans continue to pose threats. And I want to tell the Catalans whatever the result of this motion for coexistence, that every time the right of a single Catalan is violated we will once again be at the foot of the cannon defending freedom. And believe me, it is important that there are voices ready to rise, especially when totalitarianism is imposed, because so we can look to the past and say that we were where we had to be, and that we do not have to regret having squatted our heads. Every day that there are Catalans pointed out by their ideas, we have an obligation to tell them that we are prepared to defend them. Every day that a single councillor, regardless of the party, suffers the harassment and signaling of separatism, we have to be there. Every day that the public media – those that control the government – laugh, for example, at the Civil Guard, laugh at the Catalan and Spanish sentiment that we have many Catalans, we have to be there. Every day you make good and bad lists, we're gonna be there. Every day that judges are harassed for doing their job and doing the free thing in Catalonia, which you don't leave, we have to be there, and we're going to be there. Every time Catalan families get up asking themselves what is going to happen today? , « Will I be able to catch the train? "I'm going by car? , « Will I be able to go to my appointment with the doctor? Every day that happens in Catalonia, we will be there denouncing the abuses of separatism and, of course, protecting and defending the rights and freedoms of all Catalans. And I would have liked all of us defending democracy in the face of the coup d'état to be here together today. That is what I expected from this motion of censure. I don't know if next week, when these radical separatist commands make their threat come true, some will have to regret having turned their backs on the Catalans. We certainly don't, the People's Party, either. We've known to be on the right side of history. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.53.0	For the reply the Member has the new word for the same time that Mrs Roldán has arranged. It's four minutes and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.54.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, it took a little thank you, Mrs. Roldán... [[Rialles.]] Because you had to pull that one out with tweezers. There's one thing to say, isn't there? This is the technique of the Gómez de la Serna gregarias, isn't it? You don't have to talk about this today, but you do. We'll see if you haven't introduced her late, too – we'll see if you haven't introduced her late. I don't think so. That is why I have made the intervention I have made, of hope. But what I said at the beginning, constitutionalism cannot be a protest movement, it has to be an articulated, solvent, solid policy, and not only reserve itself for certain moments, manifestations, performances, etc.. It has to be perfectly built because, if not, it cannot cope with something that I have always recognized: the process of national construction designed by Jordi Pujol through the Agenda 2000 is perverse, but effective, it was well built. We have to be able to do what, too, and do the best – and do the best. On the other hand, look, I wanted to delve into an idea too, because taking advantage of the fact that I have this turn of replica..., now a moment ago I was commenting that the only solution is an alternation, and an alternation that people often perceive as impossible, and that it perceives as impossible because sometimes in politics, and also happens a lot with opinionators, patience is not one of the characteristics that defines them. And then the E.R. comes in, doesn't it? And in Andalusia it was impossible that there would be alternation. And in the Basque Country there was an alternation. There's come to be. Nationalism was a period in which it did not rule. That is why Catalonia is the only autonomous community, the only one, where there has been no ideological alternation. A non-nationalist government has never been rehearsed. That'll be the end of the process. I say this because just as I have addressed myself in a clear, respectful but clear way about my opinion, to the independenceists, I would also like to address myself to those people who are self-locating on the third tracks. I explained it the other day in the general policy debate. More self - government? In normal circumstances and institutional loyalty, my party and I have always defended administrative decentralization, the principle of subsidiarity, the idea that certain issues, not all of them, of course, but certain issues were better managed from nearness. And that has had exemplary functioning in many autonomous communities. But when disloyalty is manifest, when the process of national construction remains alive, the choices that defend the most self-government right now are the only thing that they are defending, even if it is probably against their will, is to offer more resources to those who want to use them to continue the breakup process that we have experienced in recent years. That's why sometimes the truth is hard, it can become unpleasant. And it is very nice to use beautiful words of dialogue, but the objectives must be clearly set. We are not going to reach a satisfactory agreement right now with those who will use those resources and political advantages to make the next blow. The only way is to work together so that there is once and for all a non-nationalist government. And it is possible, and I recognize that it would cause me almost hives to end up presiding over Mr.Iceta. You'll find out. But you still have a chance to rectify and not make the paper you've made today. Because today's a piece of paper. Today is inadmissible. Today has no ethical or moral justification, no matter how well I explain it. Today is to break the spirit of 6, 7, of October 8, of everything we had been able to build together, just because it makes an assessment of the surveys, which now says they go up, and does not want to lead the matter. We can agree, but it is that I repeat it again, Mr.Iceta, I told you in your office: if the problem is the People's Party or is Citizens, I go out this afternoon in a press conference and propose to you for the motion of censure. That the problem wasn't that. The problem is if we are able to go together on this path. And I sincerely believe that today it has disappointed many thousands of Catalans and the rest of Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.55.0	Thank you, Congressman. Before we go on with the debate and listen to what's left for the debate, we can make a prediction that he won't be voting until seven o'clock, huh? Therefore, it will be after seven o'clock when, presumably, we take the vote, but we will see how it was done by developing what remains to be discussed. In any case, now is the return, on behalf of the Republican Parliamentary Group, of Mr Sergi Sabrià's deputy. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.56.0	Good morning, President. President of Parliament, Members, Members, not by saying and repeating I will be relieved: they love to turn this Parliament into a television set. They have no respect for the institution or the citizen of this country. And they're going to do it again today. Get back up a campaign act and carry all the party's iron to make it even more visible. Certainly, the party's iron must not have been very happy with the morning speech, or they had no desire to see the vote, because they seem to have left. And we can't deny it, when they do that, when they turn us all into a TV set, then they win you, always. They're the masters. And sometimes some of them can't more hold lies, hold falsehoods, provocations, last week, insults. Even when they call us violent or call us terrorists to a move that is undoubtedly peaceful, sometimes we get mistaken and beat, and then they earn you, and then they have their own set, they have their own television set, they have their own little victory. And when that happens, they're always a lot better than us, because we don't know and we won't, because we don't want to, because we're not, because you're not going to play this, Mrs. Roldán. Look, you're never going to be president of the generality because this isn't going to win on TV, even though it looks like you don't know it. I don't know why he's unable to get along with anyone and why he's winning with sixty-four deputies here. And you don't have them. They're no alternative. His predecessor, and he has been reminded of it several times, counted better than you when you said "we add up what we add up and refuse to present a motion. So today, Mrs. Roldán, I'll go over it, add the same amount, the same amount. For so long, they'll lose. Certainly, they spend a lot of time remembering the million Catalans and Catalans who voted for them on 21st December, in some elections, I remind you, that they were under duress. And I'll explain something else to you. Do you know how many days it's been? Five hundred. And do you know how many votes they've lost in five hundred days? 630,000 votes have been lost. Why? Because their strategy of confrontation, of insults, of division has made them lose 60 percent of their electoral support. Today, today's polls place quarter in Spanish elections, tied to VOX. She will not be president, Mrs Roldán, she will not be president because she does not respond to the needs of Catalans, because, in reality, Catalans do not interest them very much, not matter very much. His party was born to create confrontation and not to rule Catalonia. It's intolerance, division, censorship. They were born not to build, but to destroy. And they didn't want to rule Catalonia anymore. And they won't make us believe today that's when they want to do it. So they don't make us waste more time. Here we come to do something else, here we come to help the people of our country, not one or another, to all, also – also – to all those who vote in Ciutadans. Do you know what it is to be mayor of a village, in 2009, of 25,000 inhabitants, in the midst of an economic crisis? They don't know. But they don't know about 2009, they don't know about 2010, they don't know about 2015, they don't know about 2018, they don't know about 25,000, they don't know about 5,000, they don't know about 1,000. Because the people of this country don't trust the mayors. Because trusting the mayor is trusting the most clean problems, the problems of the people of the towns. Being mayor is about people, listening to them, looking for solutions, sometimes listening to family dramas that can't be believed, trying to help them always, without asking who they vote for or what they think. So we then make political the majority of the deputies of this chamber – the majority. And so we have also come to the conclusion that we lack tools and that the solution, the only solution to help the people of our country is an independent republic, because, if not, we can't solve their problems. Because the problem is not just not having a state, but also having one against it. And it's easy to come today to make the list of malfunctions, Mrs. Roldán, waiting lists, barracks, twilight, problems that concern us, our advisors, too, very much. But what's wrong is not to explain everything. Our will has always been very clear, a Catalonia economically bright, socially just and territorially balanced, a sustainable economic engine. We generate sufficient resources to significantly reduce inequalities. The commitment of all Catalans is more than enough to guarantee a welfare state at the level of the states of northern Europe. Llar, hi, family, school, you are pleased to tell Oriol Junqueras, tan senzill but ahora tan complicat. It's not possible. And the biggest expense that Catalan society has on progress is a Spanish state against it. Independence, therefore, is not a wish, a dream for many of us, it is a necessity because the people of our country, because Catalans can get out, because Catalans can live better, all Catalans can live better. And it's not only about lack of resources, it's also about the use of courts with discretion to deny us a better society. We could go over it, but we've done it too often, all the examples of the last years or the last months. We remain with the last, with the Constitutional Court now falling the Catalan tax on the environmental risk of nuclear power. And you, lords of Ciutadans, are the transmission correctness of this Constitutional Court. And let's not forget the attacks on the language or the attacks on the education system, which we here, in this room, never – never – stop reporting. Because we can't have the welfare state that we want until we have a state that's clean and obvious until we get out of this state that is systematically dedicated to making decisions against the citizens. And this state, Mr. Iceta, this state that denies us resources, is the state that you are ruling today. And Ciutadans, his preferred partner. We are immersed in some Spanish elections because you, Mr. Iceta, did not dare with the dialect, because you did not have time to do what you most wanted, which was to close an agreement with Ciutadans, an agreement that Mr. Rivera signed yesterday, an agreement made because nothing changed. We see it, we see it when your people drag them to cry out in favor of a 155. « Iceta ensures that Sanchez would have the absolute support of the PSC if he applied 155. Dious 3 of October. A 155 that will be, this morning, Mr.Iceta, « responsibility his– ours–, giving up another time– another time– to politics and the dialect. There are more options, Mr. Iceta, than 155 and repression, but you only subscribe to this. Do you know what's going on? That 155 is not against the independenceists, 155 is against Catalonia, against its people, also against the socialist voters, also against the voters of Ciutadans. Tell me, Mr. Iceta, really, if you think that the best for the people of this country is a 155 and a government of the State shared with those who in this room make a week serve violence and the dead to Vic, the pain of the victims of ETA, a pain that we all suffered – all – you and us too. And that is why the clarity of the world must be completely unmarried. You cannot point to the confusion between independence and terrorism, because, Mr.Iceta, you know perfectly well that this is an absolutely false argument. You know you're lying. Today, he's trying to get into the middle, talk about dialing, and not glue. April 28th, they called for the mobilization of the left to avoid a government of dreaves. And today it costs us a lot, a lot, a lot to know the difference between you and Citizens. Despite the fact that his voters, that night, at Ferraz's door, were very clear about what they wanted. Where's the PSC, Mr. Iceta? The one of the linguistic immersion, the one of the metropolitan mayors that they did so much for the cities of the Barcelona conurbation – to all those good mayors, not the one they stole. Well, I've said it once before, and now I'm going to repeat it again: the best that was in your party, they're no longer with you, they're the Chapel, they're the Ernest, they're the Jose, and they're in the other band, defending the Catalan Republic. Why? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Because you can't handle so much change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.57.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.58.0	Because it doesn't get how it can go from defending a self-determination reference, as you did – you did, in 2012 – to the application of 155 and a National Security Act. I only have one – one – way to define it: "These are my principles, but if they don't like it, I have others. We'll go back to Madrid. Stronger. To make this pact between PSOE and Ciutadans impossible numerically. We will persist, because we always persist. We will persist despite repression, despite the violence of the State. We will persist in the idea of building a republic. Because today, you, unfortunately, are the most assembled in Ciutadans, and because there is no alternative to independence. They want their votes – their votes – to rule Moncloa. And you know who they are, Mr. Iceta. He knows who they are, he knows what they've done to break our society. Every day he spends accepting his way of acting and signaling to everyone who doesn't think like him, it's one more day that the PSC goes down into the abyss, and he knows it, and he knows it perfectly, and he knows it perfectly is what he knows the hardest thing about us. His abstention from today does not serve to cover his shames. There is no possible equitability between the defense of Ciutadans and the defense of the other gang. With us, Mr. Iceta, you don't share many things, neither strategic nor tactical, and you know it, and we respect it. But they can't put the PSC, these historical symbols, at the expense of intolerance, insults, threats, hatred and populism. They can't play the game for four votes. Take a game. Take a game for democracy, for the dialect, for justice, for dignity. Time. You've also had good words, not only for a while, but on your own, we still don't see it. From Esquerra, today, we did not want to add to the Ciutadans spectacle. Given Ciutadans' lack of respect for Parliament and our institutions, before the Supreme Court in Madrid. Our challenge, that of sovereignty, must be stronger, and move from the stage of resistance in which we carry the two last years, to the stage of initiative. From protest to proposal. Today we have people in prison asking us to take part in the solution, and we can't fail them. Our duty is to always work consensuses, 80_per_cent consensuses. So with those who reject repression, working with those who believe that self-determination is the only solution to the conflict. Because the solution is always politics, negotiation and democracy. To close the compromise with the Catalan Republic. The events of the past few months confirm us yet a little more in the need to settle a republic with social justice, with rights and freedoms. We really want to win. No false promises or smoke. Build a winning project with very large majorities. To put ourselves also in the grip of non-violent mobilizations, which would be essential for further progress, filling the ballot boxes again to make it clear that this country rejects the unjust feeling that it will come. Mobilized on the street, strong to the institutions and winners every time they put in a ballot box. We always want to be, always, always part of the solution, and the solution will never be renounced. The solution will always be to vote. Vote to win. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, you have the word Mrs. Roldán. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.60.0	Yes; thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. Sabrià, that you speak to me here today about the show, about the TV set, so what do you want me to tell you, that we have seen you take the printer out in Congress and the wives, tell me about the circus and the show and the TV set? [[Applauds]] For the printer at the Congress of Deputies..., man, for real – for real. And, seriously, it's not just that anymore, it's the loud show that you put up here a few days ago, in this same camera, in front of all the Catalans; that loud show that you..., yourself rose up to defend alleged terrorists. That's a show, a circus and a shame, Mr. Sabrià – and a shame. [[Greetings.]] What an exercise of cynicism you have marked here today in this rostrum. It has been put here, moreover, talking about the Constitutional Court, how bad it is, how they kill those laws. You remember that Member of the Republican Left, Mr Salvadó, who was dedicated to sending e-mails saying: "I hope that we will be killed by this law, that the Constitutional Court will come and that we will be killed by this law that we have done here. Mr. Saved. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Salvadó, by the way – by the way – we knew today that he was accused by the illegal referendum of October One. Representative of the Republican Left. Of course I already tell you that the exercise of cynicism that you have done has been magnificent today. I have to hand it to you. You come here and plant yourselves as if they were the men of state. You come..., you make moderates. The truth, I don't know... When we all know, then, that when you come out of the scene, when you're no longer here, then you, Puigdemont, Mr. Torra, the CUP, always agree on the most important thing, in secession at any price. And if that's what they have to load together in Catalonia, they charge it. You don't have any complex in that. Besides, I don't know..., of course, you've made a story here as if you were then beings of light, people who have never done anything at all. You talked about how bad your mayors are in some of the towns of Catalonia. Look, do you know who's having a bad time? For example, the councillors of Citizens whom the radical separatists attack, and mayors of Esquerra Republicana, take heart and boast of this aggression. [[Greetings.]] Mayors of Esquerra Republicana, taking heart for an assault on a councilman of Citizens in Torroella de Montgrí. It's bad that you're going through it in some villages, isn't it? I remember, last summer, as we were at Canet de Mar..., because I don't know if there's any people we can't go to, but the mayor of Esquerra Republicana seemed no, and she told us to leave Canet de Mar. He told us we weren't welcome at Canet de Mar. And you know what I tell you? That there is not going to be a single village that we do not visit, because Catalonia is of all, Mr Sabrià. [[Greetings.]] Catalonia is one of all, however much you come here to make yourself the moderate man, as much as you come here to tell us how bad you are going through it. What's wrong with you, isn't it, Mr. Sabrià? And, look, I'm telling you, Mr. Junqueras is in pre-trial detention and waiting for a sentence not because he's a Democrat– not, no, no, no–, but because he's a coup d'état in Catalonia. Mr Junqueras is in prison for organizing an illegal referendum, he is in pre-trial detention pending a sentence for having passed resolutions that are illegal, adopted in this Parliament; for proclaiming the republic unilaterally, Mr Sabrià, and for disobeying the judicial sentences – which you came and made yourselves selfies seeing as you broke the judicial sentences. In the words of the D.A.'s office, huh? , « Mr Junqueras is now in pre-trial detention awaiting a sentence for contemplating, in order to achieve his objective, the use of all the precise means, including – and I quote textually – « the necessary violence, using for this purpose the intimidating force of the great citizen mobilizations instigated and promoted by you, and the use of the Squadron Mosses as an armed police force. The beings of light, Mr. Sabrià. It's bad they're going through, really. Is there no one there? – I insist, I have already asked before–, is there no one left there with a minimum of common sense? That you go out here to defend the shame you made the other day. That you go out here and away from rectifying, from asking for forgiveness for throwing away alleged terrorists, come here and get your chest out. Isn't there anyone there who thinks a little bit? No one, Mr. Sabrià? I insist, and I ask: a few days ago they arrested people who had explosive materials, who had plans to attack this Parliament. Two people, Mrs. Jordà, of these detainees, have confessed before the judge, which I do not say, which is said by the National Court. So, I ask you: In all this revolution of yours with smiles, what role do explosives play? What were they, for the correfocs? What were they, to celebrate the republic? What were they for, Mr. Sabrià? How can you still come here and breastfeed after the information we know? After even people arrested, I insist, have pointed out to Mr Torra himself, to that president whom you support, how can you come here? And on top of that they blame us, I don't know... the partners, I don't know what. But you – you –, Mr. Sabrià, will you tell us about partners? Will you tell me and will you give me or try to give me lessons that if we associate separatism with certain movements? – I will say so, because if not, then Mr. Torrent cuts me off running the microphone and I can't finish the sentence. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing: those who relate to who you are, because you have shared a list in Europe with Bildu, you take pictures with Otegi – the one convicted of terrorism – you share a parliamentary group in the Senate with Bildu. You, not us: you. You guys usually relate. And what is even worse: when they have the opportunity to untie themselves, when they have the opportunity to condemn violence, to condemn terrorism, they do not. They make it very clear to us with their votes. It is a real shame, Mr Sabrià – a real shame. [[Greetings.]] And, look, you are in full right to support Torra, to support Puigdemont, to support, if you like, those investigated for alleged terrorism, or even to say the barbarity that, of course, explosives were for fireworks. If you want, you do; but stop coming here with the tale to tell us that you are statesmen. It is good to play wolves with lamb skin, because we know you, Mr Sabrià: you are the same doing exactly the same thing. It is also a pity that you are working to break the coexistence between Catalans. They are dedicated to that, day after day, here in Catalonia. You trample and despise the rights of many Catalan constitutionalists, and you do not care very much about equality among citizens. And it's that, above all that, they come here and present themselves as statesmen, really! - Really! And he tells me that if we make a circus; for often circus that you have assembled here today, Mr Sabrià. Look, as much as you try to be moderate, we already tell you that we know you well. You, gentlemen of the Republican Left, were here the other day praising and applauding those people who, I insist, may end up convicted of terrorism. And I ask you, Mr. Sabrià: Why? Do you have any connection with any of these detainees for alleged terrorist? Do you have any connection? Do you have among those detainees a Republican Left candidate, a person who was on the Republican Left lists? Yeah. Yes, Mr. Sabrià. Now we understand why you are devoting yourselves to prying and defending suspected terrorists: because you carry them on your lists. That's Republican Left. These are the great statesmen, the moderates, the ones who have come here to fix what they themselves have broken, the coexistence that nationalism has carried in recent years in Catalonia. Look, I challenge you, Mr Sabrià, as you have come here, for, so splendid, I challenge you to come out here now in your turn of reply and to explicitly condemn the violence of the radical separatist commands and those people who have chosen the path of violence to achieve the ends that you defend. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.61.0	For the reply, Mr Sabrià has the word. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.62.0	Very short and very loud. We always defend peaceful lives to bring forward any political project. Let us bear that we are constantly accused of racists, xenophobs, terrorists, radicals, rubber-2, commands... Now, this is not compatible with going so far as they speak for the city council; they speak only for you and they speak only because of your demands. They tell us "nationalists all the time, but to their electoral slogans there is only the word Spain and the flag, and that doesn't go with flags. That's enough. L'ultim, « Spain in progress, a motto of the Falange and of National Democracy. Well, that's it. That's all right. We will not give up voting and we will not give up winning. And we think they're desperate, we think they're having a lot of trouble with these questions, but their hopelessness won't make us any bigger. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.63.0	If the deputy wants to make a second answer... yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.64.0	Yeah. Thank you, President. For, Mr Sabrià, you have not explicitly condemned the violence of the CDRs, of the radical separatist commands. It has already made it very clear to us the other day, voting that no to that condemnation of the violence of terrorism and, today, that it had the opportunity, again, it has not done so again. And, therefore, this demonstrates the importance of this censorship, of this motion of censorship to Mr Torra, because either he is with coexistence and democracy or he is with you, who do not condemn violence and who explicitly applaud and defend alleged terrorists. Look, you're complicit in everything Mr. Torra does, what happens that you have a little bit more stinginess, that's what I'll recognize. Here, the other day, when Mr Torra applauded these people, whom I insist, they can end up convicted of terrorism, Mr Aragonès was a little more moderate; you have more stinginess. But, of course, as much as you are a little smarter, as much as you do not applaud the shame we had to live here, you voted the same as the rest of your colleagues, voted not to condemn violence and terrorism, and voted to expel the Catalan Civil Guard; a real shame. You've gone too far. There's been a before and after in Catalonia, and you know it, that's the problem. The problem is that you know it, that you have crossed and crossed all the red lines of democracy. You shut up, you hide, you talk with your little mouth, you come out here, with that costume of moderate, that nobody believes you already, Mr. Sabrià, because, of course, Mr. Torra is a little bit more... as I would say, clumsy, I will say so, clumsy, because, of course, we have already seen him clearly speaking to us, because, of course, of the wild beasts, he talks to us about these genetic differences, although, well, there, Mr. Junqueras also appears to be talking about the genetic differences between the Catalan man and the Spanish man. But Mr Torra says it even more strongly, he leaves it in writing in several articles, of which, by the way, no one has yet heard him apologize for those articles, where he calls us « mad beasts, where he says that we have a bump in DNA, where he says that we speak « the language of the beasts, articles, by the way, for which you have been labeled racist and xenophobic not by us alone, no, no, also by the main European parties. But you, here, haven't said a word. You are more crystalline, that is true; you are seen coming to the league. But you, gentlemen of the Republican Left, in the end, are exactly the same, because you go hand in hand, because you support each other, because, as much as you have differences and come here and stage those fights that you have between yourselves, then, at the time of truth, you always agree; at the time of trampling and violating the rights of more than half Catalonia, you always agree. Look, today, the Catalans are seeing here, so who's breaking up together, they're seeing here who supports the radicals, they're seeing it. And they're also seeing who's washing their hands. You are free, if you will, to support Mr. Torra, of course, and to unite destiny or your destiny with that of Puigdemont, but, please, I will ask you one thing, Mr. Sabrià, as we all know each other, as you have already fallen down and as a stateman you have absolutely nothing, save us all the sermons. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.65.0	Next, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Albert Batet. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.66.0	Thank you very much, President Torrent. President Torra. Counselors, vice president, advisors. MPs, MPs. Mrs Roldán, who is running for president with this motion of censure, I think we need to focus the debate on which it is important today. Respect... don't listen to me. Mrs. Roldán won't listen to me. Mrs. Roldán, respect: "It has done to consider something with something that we have to take into account. Respect: "Consideration of excellence... Will you or will you not listen to me, Mrs. Roldán? Ah, like he's talking to Mr. Carrizosa and he's laughing, not... "Consideration of excellence. Respect, it's respect. Do you understand me, Mrs. Roldán? That's why... "Consideration of someone's excellence or something that takes us away from not missing him. Do we respect Catalans and Catalans? Do we respect Catalonia? Do we respect democracy? Do we respect the dialog? Do we respect politics? Do we respect institutions? Do we respect the Parliament of Catalonia? Do we respect the Parliament of Catalonia? So, if we respect the Parliament of Catalonia, in politics it's not all right. If we respect the Parliament of Catalonia, we must say loud and clear that Catalans and Catalans are not a game. If we respect the Catalonian Parliament, it must be said that Parliament is not going to be used for pro-party benefits, to bring the Rules to the limit to do an act, as all political parties have said here, electorally, as a campaign to pay back some questions that, for which you see, give them very bad. And, besides, listen to me, we're tired of the City using us, we're not done. Today, he has had a whole debate, with many hours, where he has brought nothing again, where there has been no novelty. A motion of censure, as Mr. Iceta said, that is a weak, failed, that is a fraud, that is a farce, that is pure propaganda. A rule bust. A motion of censure which, if it were an investiture debate of the Parliament of Catalonia, could not be presented because it would not have the majority of votes. If it was an assembly, I wouldn't be able to file it because I wouldn't have the majority of votes to file it. But that's as good as it goes, what's worth is the electoral interests, using Catalonia as a trampoline, as did Mr. Rivera, as did Mrs. Arrimadas, as you now do, Ciutadans, to see if you can use Catalonia as a trampoline to push your enquests, which on November 10 have been elected to Spain and we must push the enquests. And what do we have to do? So, a motion of censure to the Government of Catalonia, President Torra, the Parliament of Catalonia and all day, here, the whole Government paralyzed because the lords of Ciutadans need to make an election spot. Miri, it's not all right. And it didn't go because, besides, listen to me, we see them very nervous and we see them very desperate. And, besides, they made a motion of censure where they were all talking about Spanish politics, here, with the PSOE, with the Socialist Party, with the People's Party, campaigning for Spanish politics. They're very critical of each other, but they come from a week-end where they just say they want to make a deal with you again. Let them acclaim, ask them to acclaim, but don't let them use the Catalonian Parliament to fight these electoral battles. We're going to go in from this and completely the reasons for which you presented, with all respect and with all legitimacy, this motion of censure. He spoke of coexistence, he spoke of democracy and he spoke of freedom, three concepts that we share: coexistence, democracy and freedom. But are we talking about living together? We're talking about living together. Respecting coexistence is respecting Catalonia. Catalonia is a plural country. Catalonia is a diverse country. Catalonia is a country that has different ways of thinking, different ideologies, that you can think of different ways, but we are a country, we are a people's sun. Plurality is not a problem. Diversity is not a problem. Thinking differently, from an ideological point of view, is not a problem. In Catalonia, having different thoughts is not a problem, there are no first-class citizens and second-class citizens. Thinking differently has never been a problem and it doesn't have to be a problem in a mature and advanced society. Living together is not uniform, equal, all equal, "living the King" live the fatherland, "living the nation. No, no, No, no, Listen to me, living together is respecting the different ways of thinking about different people. That's cohabitation. Perhaps the problem is that you have a peculiar way of hearing coexistence. Maybe that's the problem. And, besides, they denote it... I don't know if Mrs. Roldán is listening to me. Yeah? Respect is also listening, Mrs. Roldán. Yeah, yeah. No, no. I just want you to listen to me, Mrs. Roldán. I want you to listen to me. [[Some applause.]] Because, look, a problem of coexistence is when you, say, your government program, which today presents, you point, here, a government program, which, at half an hour, has begun to present the government program. The first point: « Fi of the process. Renoi, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Who respects coexistence. « Fi de proceso de la independência. And I ask myself, Mrs Roldán: "I, with the 2_million Catalans who want the independence of Catalonia, what in fact? « Long live Spain, live the king, live the order and the law? All right, shut up? Well stockadets? That's right, they can go and vote, huh? , that they can go to vote, but that they vote well – that they vote well –. What do we do? This is not a problem of cohabitation, Mrs. Roldán, thinking differently is not a problem of cohabitation. Catalonia's independence is historic, it's been going on for many years, it's got a social and civic mood, it's nothing from the base. If you yourself should see when you should go to the Via Catalana, which was born from the base. Say'many leaders of the IBEX have enhanced the demonstrations of September 11th? [[Some applause.]] Tell me, tell me, who encouraged you, who the leader encouraged you to go... Listen to me, this is not from the base, with 2_million Catalans going to vote. It is a totally democratic feeling, totally, radically democratic, which is based on majority parliaments – seventy deputies to the Parliament of Catalonia – voted in elections, results of the last four consecutive elections with independence victories in Catalonia. It's a democratic movement, it's a civic movement and it's a peaceful movement, it's totally peaceful. Respecting coexistence is respecting Catalonia. Miri, President Puigdemont, the other day, said it perfectly. The independenceists, Catalan nationalism is condemned from home, we are condemned from home. I'm, uh, I'm, uh, I'm, uh, I'm, uh, I'm, I'm asking you, please, that's enough. Rather than equip the independence movement with terrorism. That's right. [[Greetings.]] It sounds like a bunch of cocksuckers. It's peaceful people. We are people who condemn all the rapes and all the terrorisms, we have always followed, with the temptations of Hipercor, with the temptations against Ernest Lluch, against Miguel Ángel Blanco, on August 17th. We have also been conscious of the same government of the Generality of uniting citizenship and anti-terrorism policy, as was the case on August 17, putting lights and stenographers on all the information, which you, for which you met at the Congress of Deputies, did not want. We've always done it, and they're asking you not to banalize anymore and put those words in the name of the independenceists, because it's going to be missing in the truth. And, in politics, it's not all right. In politics, it's not all right. Because those tempts also affected all Catalans and Catalans, as well as those we were independent – also. And when you see here and the banality is lacking in respect, the least democratic respect and the least coherence. He asks you, please, that you don't do it anymore, that I make it up. This does create problems of coexistence, Mrs. Roldán. Respecting democracy is also respecting Catalonia. You talk about coexistence, you talk about democracy. We are talking about democracy: have the last election results been respected in Catalonia? We are talking about democracy: did it respect the reference of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia? No, no, Did you respect the October U reference? No, no, Did they respect each other, the 21st of December elections? No, no, Not investing President Puigdemont, they do not allow the investiture of the Jordi Sánchez, and they do not allow the investiture of the Jordi Turull at half an investiture. Was the result of the April 28 election respected? No, no, Four MPs suspected at the Congress of Deputies, altering majorities of parliament, and senators. Did they respect the municipal elections? No, no, A director suspected of the Barcelona Assembly in Quim Forn. Have the results of the European elections been respected, won in addition, with practically 50_percent of the vote, by the independence forces? No, no, Three Catalan MEPs who cannot exercise their political rights. Are we talking about democracy? We're talking about respecting the election results. We always, the independence of Catalan nationalism, will always defend that you can present elections, that you can have political rights, that you can represent your citizens. We just ask that they let us do it too. And all this time it was seen that there was no respect for democracy, and freedom. Respecting freedom is respecting Catalonia. Look, we're at the door of a feeling – a feeling that will surely change the balance of rights and freedoms we've had in this country for a long time. The exercise of rights and freedoms is a key element, I always firmly defend President Torra. The right to gather, the right to protest, the right to freedom of expression, the right to presumption of innocence, the right to self-determination: rights that are violated, that can be violated, and that we must defend more than ever. You are not authorized to speak of freedom when you agree with Vox, which pose clear principles in doubt – of freedom – to the autonomous communities you are talking about, whether it is in the LGTBI or the equality area with women. There are still consequences. Because they preach the one they don't practice. Listen to me, you're a... here, he makes a speech, he makes a great speech, he says: to see – to see – you, everything that you defend, everything that you preach, you practice, Citizens, when is the time of truth? All that... all this detail, all this government action, salvation, etc., all this, when it's the time of truth, when it's the time of responsibility, do you preach it or don't preach it? I, miri, when Ciutadans was decided at the Congress of Deputies, with the Government of the People's Party – the year 2016 to the year 2018 – have forgotten Catalonia. And the clear examples are the assumptions. Ciutadans has followed the fundamental political force, during this time, to support the government of Mr Rajoy, of the People's Party, between the year 2016 and the year 2018. When a force is decisive, it can also decide with assumptions and in economic policy. You, your incidence is zero. On the assumptions of the year 2017, Ciutadans presented two reviews for an import of 400,000 euros to the assumptions of the State. And they were decided. He didn't approve of these papers. Zero. On the assumption of the year 2018, Ciutadans said: "Clearly, we will push it, we will double it. Due to four, one per province. He presented four exams: one of the ATM, one of Salvador Dalí's home, one of Seu Vella de Lleida, one of the line of Reus - Roda de Berà. It 'nva approve one: that of the Seu. And a small part of Reus-Roda de Berà's line. A total, all the government action of Ciutadans to the assumptions, of 300,000_euros of its effort towards Catalonia. It's more: when you had to vote, and you were deciding why you pulled yourself out of these papers, what did you vote for? They voted against the better service of Rodalies, voted against the construction of the... Mediterranean, voted against the better financing of metropolity transport in Barcelona, voted against Catalan cultural subsidies – museums, cultural centres, historical heritage, etc.–, voted against the compliment of the additional third of the Statute, of more than 3,000_million euros of investments in Catalonia. It is more, you, in Madrid, when they have decided, have dedicated themselves to voting against the interests of Catalans – of all Catalans. They voted in favour of Rule 155, they voted in favour of a decree to encourage the run away from Catalonia, in favour of prosecuting Mr Francesc Homs to disqualify him from making the 9-N consultation possible. In contrast to the assumptions in favor of investments in Catalonia. Against inversions to Rodalies. Against spending more money on the law of dependency. Against the connection of the Mosso d'Esquadra to the international databases, despite being in an anti-terrorist situation four_about_five. In contrast to allocating more resources to subsidizing school places from zero to three years. And they abstained from universal sanitation. You practice things that go against what you preach: a little coherence, a little credibility. Complying with the compromise also means that when you decide this is possible... votes are to be taken. And it is more: at times they have obstacles, important legislative measures that thanks the majority of the People's Party and Citizens to the Congressional Bureau of the Deputies do not pull forward. Examples – of things that affect Catalans and Catalans: the improvement of universal justice, the reform of the Criminal Code, the Law on Reform on Official Secrets, the Law on the Organization of the Criminal Code respect the coercion to promote the right to vagrancy, the Law on the determination of the minimum interprofessional wage, the Proposition of the Law on the Organization for the Repeal of the Reform of the Constitutional Court, the modification of the Law on Citizen Security... All of this, that's it, huh? You're the only one who's done. The Proposition of Law for the Legal Reparation of the Victims of Francoism and the Declaration of Nullity and Illegitimacy of the Courts Constituted during the War and Francoism, as well as of dictated sentences. Or, for example, the Law Proposal relating to the modification of joint credits with the joint expenditure rule. This is the reality of Ciutadans: that when you, with your votes, are decisive, what they do is go against Catalonia and not throw away the projects that are needed forward. Today someone was quoting Pla. Pla also said that there was nothing more to it than to assemble into a spanyol of lefts than a spanyol of dreets. I believe that his government's action during all this time – not his government, his political action – has become very clear. And it was very clear to you today as well with your speech, Mrs. Roldán. You've had all the time in the world to talk – all the time in the long world – everything you've wanted, and you have all the time in the world you want. And it's funny because you go here and this morning you haven't spoken at any time of 155– at any time. He didn't name it. There is no such thing for Mrs. Roldán. In change, his party – and his leader, Mr. Rivera – there is no day that he does not pass by that he asks, that his electoral project first is to apply 155 to Catalonia. Defending institutions – and if you want to present a candidate, with this motion of censure, to the President of the Generality – you also want to condemn 155. Of course, 155 that were approved jointly with the Socialist Party and the People's Party; I say this because after the game this late that everyone is a record of what people did at the time, and that everyone is getting their irresponsibility. To defend institutions is also to defend the Parliament of Catalonia, it is to defend our self-government, it is to defend our sovereignty, it is to defend that you can present a motion of censure, with all respect and all legitimacy, but also to respect that we can think differently, to respect that we are in a democracy, and to respect that there are electoral results that give an independent majority to the Parliament of Catalonia that has revalidated the compromise with the U of October. This is where we are Junts per Catalunya, Mrs. Roldán. This is where most of the country is right now, most of this room. We ask you, please, to stop using the public resources of all Catalans and Catalans to try to remunerate in your inquiries today by making a motion of censure that has failed..., to you, that has been failed by this Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. To answer, you have the word Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.68.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Batet, I don't know if you have prepared the speech with your colleague, Mr Sabrià, because they were more or less on the same side: you come out here to give moral lessons to others. And you brought here today the definition of respect. I don't know where you got it from, and I don't think you understood it very well either, because, look, I'm going to tell you one thing: if you really respect this Parliament, you wouldn't have to close this Parliament every time it comes to you. [[applause]] If you and you really respect this Parliament do not come here to walk to those condemned for terrorism like Mr Otegi, if you respect this Parliament ; if you really respect this Parliament, stop inventing squirms and parallel structures which you want to supplant precisely this Parliament, if you really respect it. [[Greetings.]] If you really respect this Parliament, no more coups d'état in Catalonia, which you did here at night and with ease – here – on 6 and 7 September two years ago: those of respect. You are the ones of respect, and you come here to teach lessons. What respect? If Mr. Torra hasn't even left today. You are very brave – very brave – to applaud those who are right now in the National Court for alleged terrorism, for that you are very brave; now, to come out here to face all Catalans, you are very cowardly, Mr. Torra – very cowardly– [[applause]] , and hides behind the counselors and behind the deputies of your group – very cowardly. Mr Batet, the one about respect, the one about respect, who tells us how we have to respect Catalans; you who again came out here to speak again on behalf of all Catalonia, to speak again on behalf of all Catalans: we won the elections on December 21, 2017. You respect those Catalans, who are a majority – who are a majority, Mr Batet. [[Greetings.]] Stop talking on behalf of the people of Catalonia, that's all right – that's all right. And I say the same thing to his colleague from Esquerra Republicana, Mr Sabrià: you are no longer believed by anyone, you have dropped your face, you have seen the deeply undemocratic face you have. The Council of Europe has already warned... , so much so that you speak of pacifism: there is a warning from the Council of Europe for an attack on a journalist, because these are the radical separatist commands. You call them to tighten up and they obey; we saw it on 11 December, we have seen it also in the last few days: how they attack the police, how they try to assault this Parliament and how they attack people who are doing their job here, Mr Torra, journalists who are reporting on what is going on in Parliament, and have no respect for them – that respect you are talking about, Mr Batet. Look, you were also telling me, you were blaming me for not talking about 155. Really, it's weird, coming from you, that I blame myself not talking about 155. But do you know why I didn't talk about 155? Do you know why I did not need to name 155 in all my speech? Because if I'm president, we won't have to apply 155 because we're going to comply with the Constitution. [[applause]] , we will comply with the laws, we will respect all Catalans, which you have no idea of doing. It won't be necessary, 155. 155 has to be applied because you, too, day and day, threaten to attack the state. Mr. Torra has told us clearly: he has not come here to manage an autonomy – he has not come here to anything, because even when he is censored he is not even able to go out to this rostrum... [[Greetings.]] Why have you come here, Mr. Torra? Why have you come here? Is that what you came here to throw away the violent ones? That is why we must censure you, that is why we are presenting this motion of censure. And look, I, the truth is, I had no hope, with you. I could see it coming, this surgery. But it is that, truly, with all the barbarities that you have done here, that we have seen everything in recent years. We have seen how you trampled and violated the rights of all Catalans passing over the Constitution, passing over the Statute of autonomy; we have seen how you came here to break judicial decisions and here to challenge the State. We've seen a lot of things. We have seen how the economy was being burdened; we have seen how coexistence was being burdened in Catalonia, because there is a problem of coexistence, Mr Batet, a problem of coexistence that you create. When Mr. Torra calls the Catalan constitutionalists « mad beasts, this creates a problem of coexistence; when he says that we speak the language of the beasts, the Castilian, which, by the way, is the majority mother tongue of the Catalans, that creates a problem of coexistence; when you dedicate yourselves to going to the courtyards of the schools to spy – Platform for Language, subsidized by his Government – what the children speak in the courtyards of the schools, that creates a problem of coexistence; when you point out and harass the person who thinks differently, that creates a problem of coexistence, of course it does, Mr. Batet – of course it does. But it's just that on top of it now they're going one step further. It is just that something has happened in this Parliament that I thought I would never have to see. After living here on September 6th and 7th, infamous days, very serious days, days of great concern, not only ours, but many Catalans out there, you have surpassed yourselves. I told you the other day, Mr Torra: you have done something that seemed unthinkable, you have surpassed Mr Puigdemont. You are worse than Mr Puigdemont, because you now applaud, legitimize and defend violence; applaud, legitimize and defend alleged terrorists. And I make the same request that I made to Mr Sabrià, I make the same one: get out here and without any kind of subterfuge or things that you like to do, those periphrases and those phrases that never end, get out here and say: "Yes, I condemn the violence of the radical separatist commands. [[Alpaudiments.]] "Yes, I condemn the violence of the separatist commands. Say it, Mr. Batet. Repeat it with me, repeat it. Apologize for that shame that we had to live here the other day; apologize for having expelled the Civil Guard of Catalonia; apologize for having voted against the condemnation of violence and terrorism. You reminded me that I am rejected in this Parliament, and you know what I'm saying? That I am very honored, because it was for denouncing the infamy of having a president of the Generalitat who is jealous and defends alleged terrorists, so you can reproach me as often as you want – whenever you want – Mr. Batet. [[Greetings.]] Whenever you want. I have spoken to you before not only as a leader of my party in Catalonia, but also as a further Member of Parliament in this Chamber; I have spoken to you as a Catalan, as a Catalan who is watching with concern what you are doing on our land, and that is why today we had the moral obligation, the democratic urgency to bring this motion of censure here. And it gave us the same amount, because it's not about the sum; it's about sending a message to all those Catalans out there who feel helpless, who are tired, who are already sick of what you're doing and who don't want or believe in your breakup project. So I, very proud to have tabled this motion of censure today, because, although you insist on your draft breakup, we will insist on continuing to denounce you. Mr. Torra, if you do it again, we'll be back there to stop it, which is very clear to you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.69.0	When you want, Congressman, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.70.0	As far as Parliament is concerned, I will be brief, because I see that Mrs Roldán has not responded to my intervention. I wish you'd listened to me, Mrs. Roldán. Independence, and Together for Catalonia, we condemn all rapes, all rapes and all terrorism. We also condemn the rape of the U of October. Citizens and you, Mrs. Roldán, condemn the police rape of the U of October, yes or no? [[Greetings.]] Today you have an opportunity to make it very clear, Mrs. Lorena Roldán. It's very clear, it's got the opportunity. And respect is also listening. We have spoken of coexistence, we have spoken of democracy and we have spoken of freedom, and you only go here with the tape laid down and only say the same as always. Please, politics... the parliament is to talk. It is not a cry, it is a parliament, and in a parliament it is spoken and heard, Mrs Roldán. So today you have a golden opportunity. We, all the rapes, all the terrorism; we have come to condemn him from the house. You, the police rape of the U of October, the fucking coups of the Civil Guard or the National Police against the citizens who defended the ballot box and democracy, condemn it or not condemn it? That's what this is about. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.71.0	I've got the word again, Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.72.0	Look, Mr. Batet, you have a very curious way of condemning violence. When it comes to giving you the button for the proposal to condemn violence or terrorism, you vote no. Was the button wrong? It's the red one, the one you voted for. They have a very curious way of condemning violence. They come here to hug each other with convicted of terrorism, with Otegi. You have a very curious way of condemning violence. Mr. Torra hugs Bultó. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, with Sastre, with Bultó's killer – as they tell me so many things that obviously cost already, it costs to give them the reply. You are the ones who code with the violent, you, not us; you. If you do not want to be linked to violence, condemn it, but do not come out here and say 'yes, I condemn all violence, no, no; when it comes to voting it, vote against it. When it comes to not applauding as they did the other day, do not do those numbers that were assembled here the other day, in Parliament, that was a shame, that we are waiting for Mr Torra to apologize, because I insist that we have seen very serious things, but that was unfortunate the other day. And not only that, it's that above then we knew that one of these detainees points to you, Mr. Torra. What role have you played in all this? Will you explain it to us? Why is one of the detainees now declaring at the National Court for alleged terrorism that you were aware of these plans, why? Is this how you condemn violence? How do you condemn violence by telling the separatist radicals to tighten up? What is the condemnation of violence? Mr Batet, it was as easy as going out here and telling the radical separatist commands to stop, that we do not have to see any more attempts at assault on this Parliament, that we have seen two in less than a year, and we are still waiting for you to condemn it, and that condemnation does not come either from President Torra or from the President of this Parliament, Mr Torrent. It is a veritable shame, what you have done, a veritable shame, and that is why this motion of censure, therefore, Mr Batet. I do hear you, when you speak to me, who tells me no. I do listen to you when you talk. You have also come to reproach me and to tell me, according to the demonstrations of 2013, the Via Catalana, you have come to reproach me. Look, when I come out here and defend the Catalan officials, and I say that you have them between the sword and the wall, I say it because I know what it is; I say it because I have lived it myself in my own flesh. And you know what I tell you, Mr. Batet? That at that time you were head of the Diputation of Tarragona, so report yourself a little bit. Report a little about what you do with the officials in Catalonia. Tell us a little about what happens when one of the officials does not appear in the photo, when one of those officials does not put himself in the minute of silence, when one of those officials complains that you have it all invaded by yellow propaganda; those of respect, who so respect that they do not even respect the neutrality of public spaces. It's a shame that you come here and get your chest out, Mr. Batet, it's a real shame. I also understand the paper that you had today to try to make Mr. Torra not go out, to try to make Mr. Torra not have to face up, not have to come here to explain to the Catalans at least why that shame of the other day. At the very least why when you see that people who had plans to attack Catalonia, instead of going out and condemning it, don't, go out and defend them, and mount a demonstration against the Civil Guard, and mount a demonstration with ETA songs. But then I'm the one who connects you to the violent. Make him look at it, make him look at it. Look, Catalonia could be a place of coexistence, as it was a long time ago. A place where political opinions do not have to be expressed in a low voice, when they are different from their own; a place where languages are not a reason for division. Catalonia should be a place where it is not expelled, where it is not censored, where the opposition is not repudiated for doing its work in this Parliament. A place, Mr. Torra, where no coups d'état from the government against more than half Catalonia. That should be Catalonia, if you speak so much of respect, Mr Batet. So, ultimately, Catalonia could be a land where the president of the autonomous government is not appointed for allegedly meeting with commands that, apparently, they had planned to attack in Catalonia, they had planned to attack this Parliament. It's just that you've gone too far. That should be Catalonia: a site of coexistence, a site of freedom; a site, in short, of normality. We are not asking for anything else, nor anything less, with this motion of censure, Mr Torra: return normality to Catalonia. And the day we get rid of the government, Catalonia will start to be that country of freedom, coexistence, dignity and above all normality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.73.0	Mr. Batet, if you want to make a _second reply...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.74.0	So alone, President, to recall that the next week the House's Board of Spokespersons approved a statement that literally says: "Rejects violence and stands firm in democratic lives to achieve political and legitimate objectives. This is the Parliament of Catalonia and not a TV set. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.75.0	Thank you, Congressman. After the statements made by the representatives of the parliamentary groups and sub-groups, we shall proceed to the vote. Let's call it a vote first. [[Long break.]] Well, we'll go to the vote. Before starting it, the memory that Mr Raül Romeva has appointed Mr Sergi Sabrià, president of the Republican Parliamentary Group, to exercise his parliamentary rights. As you already know and as has already been announced, the vote will be public by cry, that is, we will vote by alphabetical order, starting for the deputy whose name you came out of by lot. They will have to rise up and cry out their vote, which will be « yes if the motion of censure is raised, and « no, obviously, if they reject it. [[The president takes a ball with the number of the deputy for whom the roll-call vote has to begin. Pause.]] All right, we'll go to the vote starting with Congressman Carlos Carrizosa... [[voice remorse and applause]] , and from here he will obviously vote the rest too. I'll ask the secretary first, Mr. Campdepadrós, and the third secretary, Mrs. Vílchez, to vacate reading the list of deputies and deputies. I repeat again, they will have to rise up and vote yes, not abstain. And finally we will vote for the members of the Bureau. Therefore, secretary Campdepadrós, secretary Vílchez, when they are present.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.76.0	Carlos Carrizosa Torres : « Yes. Jean Castel Sucarrat : « Yes. Antoni Castellà i Clavé: "No. Carles Castillo Rosique : « Abstention. Anna Caula i Paretas: "No. David Cid Colomer: "No. Ferran Civit and Martí: "No. Narcis Clara Lloret : « No. Antoni Comín Oliveres. [[Greetings.]] Francesc de Dalmases i Thió : « No. Naomi of Sifré Street: "Yes. Carmen de Rivera i Pla : « Yes. Jenn Díaz Ruiz : « No. Francisco Javier Domínguez Serrano : « Yes. Najat Driuech Ben Moussa: "No. Anna Erra i Solà: "No. Take Escarp Gibert : « Abstention. Mercè Escofet Sala : « Yes. Ramon Swordler and Partners: "Abstention. Gemma Espigares Tribó : « No. Antonio Espinosa Cerrato : « Yes. Jorge Feijóo Sunol : « Yes. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez : « Yes. Maialen Fernández Cabezas : « Yes. María del Camino Fernández Riol : « Yes. Munia Fernández-Jordan Celorio: "Yes. Lucas Silvano Ferro Sole : « No. Lluís Font i Espinos : « No. Josep Maria Forné i Febrer: "No. Montserrat Fornells i Sole: "No. Irene Fornós Shorto : « No. Elena Fort i Cisneros: "No. Gloria Freixa and Vilardell: « No. Imma Gallardo Barceló : « No. Esperanza García González : « Yes. Gemma Geis i Carreras : « No. Anna Geli i España : « No. Pol Gibert Horcas : « Abstention. Dimas Gragera Velaz : « Yes. Eva Granados Galiano : « Abstention. Lluís Guinó i Subirós : « No. Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé : « Abstention. Miquel Iceta and Llorens: "Forbearance. Josep M. Jové i Lladó: "No. Mr Assumption Laïlla i Jou: "No. Saloua Laouaji Faridi: "No. Lluïsa Llop and Fernández: "No. Yolanda López Fernández: "No. Manuel Losada Seivane: "Yes. Montserrat Macià i Gou: "No. Aurora Madaula i Giménez: "No. Marta Maderas i Mir: "No. Ernest Maragall i Mira: "No. Ignacio Martín Blanco : « Yes. David Mejía Ayra: "Yes. Alfons Montserrat Esteller: "No. Raúl Moreno Montaña : « Abstention. Marta Moreta Rovira : « Abstention. Antoni Morral i Berenguer: "No. Jordi Munell i Garcia: "No. Blanca Victoria Navarro Pacheco : « Yes. Esther Niubó Cidoncha : « Abstention. Óscar Ordeig i Molist : « Abstention. Jordi Orobig i Sole: "No. Martí Pachamé Barrera : « Yes. Mònica Palacín Paris : « No. Teresa Pallarès Piqué: "No. Marc Parés Franzi: "No.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.77.0	Ferran Pedret and Santos: "Forbearance. Núria Picas Albets: "No. Josep Puig i Boix: "No. Very honorable President Carles Puigdemont and Casamajó. [[Greetings.]] Eduard Pujol Bonell: "No. Xavier Quinquillà Durich: "No. Marta Ribas Frías : « No. Rut Ribas i Martí: "No. Carles Riera Albert: "No. Josep Riera i Font : « No. Javier Rivas Escamilla: "Yes. Manuel Rodríguez de l'Hotellerie de Fallois : « Yes. José Rodríguez Fernández: "No. Santi Rodríguez i Serra : « Yes. Lorena Roldán Suárez : « Yes. Alicia Romero Llano : « Abstention. Raül Romeva i Rueda. [[Sergi Sabria i Benito says: "No.]] Ferran Roquer i Padrosa: "No. Sergi Sabria i Benito : « No. Mònica Sales de la Cruz : « No. J. Lluís Salvató i Tenesa: "No. Natalia Sánchez Dipp: "No. Alfonso Sánchez Fisac: "Yes. Carlos Sánchez Martín: "Yes. Marc Sanglas i Alcantarilla: "No. Raquel Sans Guerra: "No. Sergio Sanz Jiménez: "Yes. Susanna Segovia Sánchez: "No. Daniel Serrano Coronado: "Yes. Sonia Sierra Infante: "Yes. Beatriz Silva Gallardo : « Abstention. Maria Sirvent Escrig: "No. Bernat Sole i Barril: "No. Jorge Soler González: "Yes. Marc Solsona and Aixalà: "No. Anna Tarrés i Campà: "No. Francesc Ten i Costa : « No. Jordi Terrades and Santacreu : « Abstention. Elisabeth Valencia Mimbrero : « Yes. María Francisca Valle Fuentes : « Yes. Francesc Viaplana Manresa : « No. Marta Vilalta i Torres: "No. Ruben Wagensberg Ramon : « No. Conception Abellán Carretero : « No. Jordi Albert i Caballero : « No. Jessica Albiach Satorres: "No. Matías Alonso Ruiz : « Yes. Héctor Amello Montiu : « Yes. Vidal Aragonese Chicharro : « No. Elsa Artadi i Vila: "No. Martin Eusebio Barra López : « Yes. Albert Batet i Canadell: "No. Susana Beltrán García : « Yes. David Bertran Román: "Yes. Marina Bravo Sobrino: "Yes. Rafel Bruguera Batalla : « Abstention. José María Cano Navarro: "Yes. Aurora Carbonell i Abella: "No. Miquel Buch i Moya: "No. Joaquim Torra i Pla: "No. Adriana Delgado i Herreros : « No. Laura Vílchez Sánchez: "Yes. David Pérez Ibáñez : « Abstention. Eusebi Campdepadrós and Pucurull : « No. Joan García González: "Yes. Josep Costa i Rossello : « No. Roger Torrent and Ramío: "No. [[It's going to the countdown.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2019-10-07-3801.78.0	Members, Members, the result of the vote was the following: 40 votes in favour, 76 against and 17 abstentions. So, therefore, the motion of censure does not prosper. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] The session's up. Thank you very much.
